ParlaMint-DK_20220204100026	The meeting is open. There is today the following notification: The Epidemic Committee has submitted on 2 February 2022: Report on lifting the ban on mink teams in 2022. 10). The report will be presented in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100102	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Brian Bressendorff of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100118	Thank you for the floor, President. With this bill, the Government proposes to adjust the Fertilisation Act to comply with the EU's new Fertilisation Regulation, which will enter into force on 16 July 2022. This bill can ensure a clearer declaration of the fertiliser products placed on the market as fertilisers and what different fertiliser products in the EU internal market contain. In this way, it can be easier to trade across the EU to the benefit and benefit of both consumers and producers. Overall, three major adaptations to the Fertilisers Act are proposed. Firstly, it is proposed to adapt the manure law so that companies whose fertiliser products meet the requirements of the regulation can be CE-labelled so that they are not hindered by rules when they are marketed across countries in the EU. At the same time, companies which market only their fertiliser products on the national market will have to comply only with national requirements. Secondly, it is proposed to make an adjustment so that the Fertilisers Act has the power to lay down rules to ensure that the regulation is complied with. Thirdly and finally, the draft law will allow us in Denmark to lay down rules for the same product categories covered by the regulation. For example, it may be biostimulants and inhibitors, so these product categories can also be clearly regulated and distinguished. We already have a number of limit values, but now we have the opportunity to see whether there is a need for adjustments or additions. Finally, it is important to add that the amendments we are proposing with this bill will have no negative impact on environmental protection. Instead, by applying this fertiliser regulation, we can make it possible to recycle more of the organic waste products for the benefit of both the climate and the environment. All in all, this is a proposal which provides a good framework for both producers and consumers fertiliser products in order to market and buy different fertiliser products. We think it is important to have a clear frame of reference in an area where new, innovative fertiliser products are emerging and growing, and in an area where there are many technical and detailed requirements. That's why we think this bill is very sensible. And, of course, the Social Democratic Party can back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100345	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. I'm not sure you have to drink off. It's totally voluntary, but you can do it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100412	Thank you. The previous rapporteur has already examined the main features of the draft law, so I shall not go into that further. This bill then aims to bring Danish legislation into line with the EU's new fertiliser regulation before it finally comes into force in July, and we are in favour of that in the Left, as we believe that standardisation of fertiliser products is the right way to go to ensure that farmers have a good quality of manure and transparency in relation to the content of manure. The requirement for products to have a documented effect has now been added to the fertiliser regulation. There is a clear perception in agriculture that this requirement may never have been fully enforced under the previous manure law, and we would therefore call on the authorities to ensure that the requirements to document the effect are published in the EU Fertilising Regulation. In addition, the Left notes that, in the context of the consultation of the bill, it has been expressed by the profession that it is important that the obligation to declare all manure on the final product is maintained, and on this basis the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100522	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lise Bech from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100529	Thank you, President. After all, as the previous rapporteurs have said, this draft law concerns the amendment of the law on fertilisers and soil improvers and the adaptation of the manure law. The adaptations are necessary to apply the new fertiliser regulation and the adaptations are a requirement that the products must comply with in order to be placed on the market as CE labelled EU fertiliser products. Traders can now market products that do not comply with the requirements of the new Fertilizer Regulation, but then products must comply with the requirements that the Member States lay down at national level. It is also proposed that rules should be laid down for biostimulants and inhibitors, so that national rules which are regulated by the new fertiliser regulation can be laid down. The bill has no economic impact on the industry. The bill has been in consultation with a great many authorities and organisations, but there has just been a hearing response from two, namely Danish Plant Protection and Agriculture & Food, and they are positive, and this indicates that this change of law is unproblematic for the industry. Among other things: the consultation answer states that it is appropriate for the draft law to maintain the registration obligation for both EU fertilisers and Danish fertilisers. Agriculture & Food also calls for the list of registered fertilisers to be published digitally so that all relevant parties can go in at any time to see whether a current fertiliser has been registered and has to be negotiated, and I think that sounds like a good idea. So with this little pip, the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100712	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There were no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100720	Thank you. Now there have already been three people up here who have explained what the proposal contains, so I should just like to say very briefly that the SF supports it. The transparency that is being made clear here is a good thing and we will therefore say yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100735	This did not give rise to any brief comments, so the next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100742	After all, we love the European Union, so everything that comes from there is just gorgeous. And we can also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100758	Nor did it give rise to brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100803	We are very critical of the European Union, and here we have a legislative proposal that has come into being because there has been a new fertiliser regulation in the European Union. The Socialist rapporteur quite upset himself to say that this bill was for the benefit of consumers, but there we in the Enhedslisten do not quite agree that this bill really looks a little boring. The primary purpose of the bill is to make the adjustments to the law on fertilisers and soil improvers, etc. necessary for the application of the new manure regulation. Yeah, it's a fantastic, exciting bill. I would really like to ask two questions for committee reading: are there any important changes to the current Danish legislation that are being amended by this bill? And then maybe I would also like a clarification of what this "v." is valid. These biostimulants and inhibitors are mentioned as apparently in this category. It might be nice to clarify whether it is only organic material, whether there is something chemical, which also belongs to biostimulants and inhibitors, or whether it is somewhat less dangerous. We support the draft law as it is, even if it has its roots in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100920	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. That does not give rise to brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100927	Thank you. I'm not sure I can bring that much news to the case. When you read the consultation answers, those who have to deal with it on a daily basis are also positive, so of course we also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204100945	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next speaker is the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204101011	Thank you very much. Let me start by signing for the speeches by the rapporteurs and for a good and constructive debate on the proposal here. It's mostly of a technical nature. That's why it's been quick. But as a minister, I'd better put a few words on it. I was also able to understand that there were some questions from the Enhedslisten and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. From 16 July next year new rules will apply in the field of fertilisers. As from that date, the rules on the placing on the market of fertiliser products laid down in the new Fertilizer Regulation apply. The regulation allows companies to market fertiliser products within the EU internal market. These are products which comply with the requirements of the Regulation and which can therefore apply the CE mark as an EU fertiliser product. It remains an opportunity for a company to market a product exclusively on the national market. Then the fertiliser product must comply with the national requirements of the Fertiliser Act. The bill will ensure that there is an up-to-date and clear regulation of which products are marketed as fertilisers and what the fertiliser products contain. This is important for consumers, for producers and for green conversion. The primary purpose of the bill is to adapt Danish legislation to the new regulation. An adaptation of Danish rules may be necessary when a regulation enters into force, because there may be rules in national legislation which are contrary to the Regulation. It can, for example, be done. If the Danish rules regulate the areas that the regulation also regulates, be the case. In addition, it must be ensured that it is possible to lay down the rules necessary to support the new regulation. It can, for example, be done. be the rules on access to justice. I would now like to refer to the three major adaptations to the law of fertilization resulting from this draft law. Firstly, it is proposed that the Fertilisers Act be adapted so that the law does not contain rules which prevent free access to products that meet the requirements of the Regulation. This means that in future, the Fertilisers Act makes a distinction between, on the one hand, fertiliser products marketed in accordance with the rules of the Regulation and, on the other hand, manure products marketed in accordance with national rules. Secondly, the draft law will provide for the inclusion in the law of fertilization of a power to lay down the rules enabling the regulation to be complied with. Thirdly, the draft law allows national rules to be laid down for the same product categories as the products covered by the regulation. The regulation, for example, contains: new product categories called biostimulants and inhibitors. And there I could understand that there was a question of a technical nature from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten around whether it is organic or chemical. As I understand it, there is also an element of chemistry. But we would like to leave a note that describes in more detail what the content of this is. These categories of products must also be able to regulate the manure law. As mentioned, the legislative proposal has a background in adapting to EU legislation. Clear rules in this area are important for both producers and consumers of fertiliser products. With these words, I would like to look forward to the committee's examination of the draft law, and I would like to thank you once again for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204101342	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204101404	The debate is open as soon as I see the Minister for Culture; I think I saw the Minister for Culture a moment ago, but I may be the one who is seeing things. We are waiting a moment for the Minister of Culture to come in; it is not many moments that we have to wait; it is a few moments. Here you go, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204101444	Thank you very much for the floor, President. It is said that walls can speak, and I would argue that the same applies to buildings. In Denmark we have a unique building heritage, each listed building tells a story about the values on which our society is based and what we as people are rounded up by. This applies to these large castles and manor houses that we have, but it also applies to the more humble farmhouses far from Christiansborg, which is why we need to take good care of them. It is our history laid in bricks, and the protected houses are therefore also important for our history, for our common identity. In other words, I fully agree with the proposalers' point of departure that we must take good care of our common building heritage. No doubt about it. I think it would be good for the debate to put some figures on, so everyone in the Chamber knows what it is we have between our hands here, without of course being too technical, but we have 7,100 listed buildings in Denmark from the Stock Exchange and Amalienborg at one end of the scale and down to toilet sheds and hen sheds. The building heritage is regulated in the Building Conservation Act, and the Danish Palace and Culture Agency, which is part of the Ministry of Culture, is the state authority in this area. Fortunately, the board is making a great effort to secure our building heritage. It was not many years ago that the board completed a major review of all the land's protected buildings. The review resulted in a description of the conservation values of each listed building, including: used in restoration cases. With this resolution, the Danish People's Party wants the special and unique building heritage to be three-d-scanned. The aim is to ensure documentation that can be used if, for example, a burned-down building must be rebuilt. I can easily understand the background to the request. I also think it is important that our building heritage is properly documented. The proposers highlight the brand of the Notre Dame cathedral in 2019. For the French it must have been as terrible as it was for many Danes when the Castle Church here at Christiansborg burned down in Pentecost in 1992. Since I think the basic idea is good, I have also submitted the motion for a resolution to the Danish National Palace and Culture Board to obtain their professional assessment. The board estimates that there are major future perspectives in three-d scans. A very important weakness, however, is that the technology cannot reproduce how a building is continuously rebuilt over time, nor can it take into account different materials, coloring and craft tracks. The knowledge and overview of the historical changes are central to any successful restoration project. Three-d scans cannot therefore replace the human eye, the manual survey, the professional assessment. As it is now, the three-d technology is best used as a complement to other sources such as: original drawings, measurements, photographs and the like. I am very much in favour of using new technology, also to protect our building heritage. I know that the board already uses three-d scans in their work, among others. in connection with documentation of sculptures and decorative elements of natural stone. So the technology is neither new nor foreign, but it is the opinion of the board that at this stage, unfortunately, the technology has not been developed enough for it to be used, as the motion for a resolution suggests. Then there's the economy. Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen has calculated what a three-d-scan and subsequent processing of data of the Ministry of Culture's property portfolio of approx. Thirty buildings will cost. The administration arrives at a cost of 44 million. kr. For that part of the building stock, i.e. considerably more than the 16 million. I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet reached agreement on this matter. If all 7,100 listed buildings are to be tri-d-scanned, then the amount will be significantly higher. It is also assessed that technology at the present stage will not bring significant savings in maintenance or restoration costs. The cost of three-d scanning will therefore not be able to earn its way into other places in the work on the protected buildings. There are certainly great future perspectives in three-d scans, and in time I am sure that this technology will also be a commonly used tool, also for the board and their work on our unique architectural heritage. However, when I am not ready to support the motion for a resolution, it is because technology is still not sufficiently developed and is only complementary to the documentation that already exists. I therefore believe that the state's funds are best spent on maintaining and restoring our building heritage. Against this background, I must inform you that the government cannot agree to the draft parliamentary resolution B 54. As I said, I believe that there are great perspectives in three-d scans and that we need to use new technology where it can help. That's why I've also asked Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen to follow the development of three-d technology. In conclusion, I would like to invite you to a technical review, if there is any interest in it, in the Committee on Culture, where the Danish National Palace and Culture Authority can tell you more about the efforts for the conservation of buildings. Here, too, they will be able to explain both what three-d technology can be used for in the field of building conservation today, and what improvements in technology will be crucial to its long-term use if there is interest in the committee. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102026	There are brief comments to be made to the Minister. First, it's from sir. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102031	Thank you. I would like to know what opportunities are available to ensure that three-d technology is not fully developed and is not economically available. What else is used and to what extent are the buildings we are talking about here covered by e.g. Drawings and photographs? Have they been photographed, are there any basic drawings of it, and how much can we lean on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102108	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102109	The short answer is yes and therefore added value is also limited. However, as I have said, the Danish Palace and Culture Authority would very much like, if there is an interest in the Committee on Culture, to come and specifically review what they have done, what they already have in use, what we have in stock, so to speak, and it is at least my impression that it is a very extensive piece of work that is behind the work, but of course also their reflections on what can be done with three-d technology today, and what it is necessary to do so that it can actually be used further. However, as the questioner asks, it is very much both drawings and pictures and so on that are the basis of today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102147	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102148	Is it possible to get some sort of overview of what other countries are doing, for example. our Nordic colleagues? Because sometimes we have to recognise that we are not always at the forefront of Denmark in all areas, and therefore there can be places where we can get some inspiration or perhaps get shortcuts to get a technology that is both affordable but also good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102211	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102212	I fully share the interest of the questioner that we are constantly learning from if there are other places they have broken the code before us. This could be some of the things I went back to the Danish Palace and Culture Agency and asked them to bring in if there was any interest in the Culture Committee for such a review.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102230	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102233	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you to the Minister for her services what can be said about caring rejection of the proposal, because that is what this is about. On the one hand you think it is very good, and on the other hand you find an explanation of why it is not. Therefore, it could just be nice if you could get some sense of what it is that should then stand instead of. Now we know that these scans are what makes it possible to work at all on the restoration of Cathédrale Notre-Dame in Paris and that it is a tool of huge importance to the architects there. What is it that specifically makes it not relevant in Denmark? I mean, we have a strip of cathedrals we call them cathedrals castles and other things, and it sounds to me as if the minister says that if the tragedy should arise and there for example. If there's a fire or something else, you're against these scans because they can't fully create the picture. But couldn't they be a good addition to what you already have?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102337	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102338	Undoubtedly, this technology can be a supplement. I would like to stress that it is not the case that today we have nothing and that we could then put in three-d scans and then suddenly have a whole lot. Fortunately, a solid piece of work has been done by Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen in order to preserve this very important building stock for posterity, if the accident should be out. It consists of both drawings and pictures, which also, at least as I have had it transferred from the board in their professional assessment, give some nuances, which the three-d scans do not. I therefore believe that what the rapporteur is also proposing can be technologies that can go hand in hand with what we have, so that we both have the handheld and use the three-d scans. Then you can say that because so much work has already been done, there is little value in starting to three-d-scan at this time too. However, as I also said in my speech, I have encouraged and stressed to the Danish Palace and Culture Authority that they must follow this technology closely, and they are also interested in it. So that is something we have a look for today, and I think we will be able to use it even more in the future, but we are not there yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102444	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102445	But then it's that I don't quite understand why you don't just vote yes. For what the proposal says is that the government is required to draw up a programme to ensure that major Danish historical buildings and other building heritage with special cultural value are three-d-documented, and it sounds as if the minister thinks it is a very good idea, but that it just cannot stand alone. After all, this motion for a resolution for possible adoption does not rule out the possibility of having all sorts of hand drawings from the past 700 years, which can then complement the various additions which may have been made for castles, cathedrals, manor houses and everything else. So isn't this really just a question of whether it's a good idea that the government was late and too good to say yes to?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102520	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102522	On the contrary, I believe that this is an example of the fact that if the value of the project does not correspond to what it costs, and we already have the whole of the project and the Danish Palace and Culture Authority already has detailed knowledge of many of the buildings covered by the proposal, then this is not the most useful way to spend the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102540	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. There are no more brief comments. The first ordinary rapporteur in the line is Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102552	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising an important debate on the importance of safeguarding Denmark's cultural heritage. This is absolutely an important priority for social democracy and for the government. Fortunately, Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen is already doing a great job in documenting our architectural heritage. A few years ago a relatively extensive project was completed, where all listed properties in Denmark were reviewed and where conservation values were described. So the task is already being worked on today, and that is good, and it is important for the preservation of our common history and cultural heritage. We in the Social Democratic Party are certainly also open to future prospects, which may be using three-d scans in relation to the preservation of the architectural heritage, but as it is today, and as the Minister for Culture explained, the assessment is that the technology may be too expensive and that it also has a limited usefulness when it comes to restoration. The motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party is based on the fact that it will involve expenditure in the region of 16 million. kr., but as the Minister for Culture also explained, three-d-scanning and processing of data in relation to the buildings of the Ministry of Culture according to Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen's calculations will cost significantly more than that, i.e. up to 44 million. kr. So it may be an expensive solution, and at the same time it is a technology which today has a limited applicability. It is not because three-d models could not be a useful tool in the restoration of a building it could be after a fire but it would be in addition to other sources, for example. original drawings, measurements and historical and contemporary photographs. The technology is not there today, where we would be able to make exactly three-d models that would help us in the reconstruction of buildings. For these reasons, it is probably still too early to say that this alone is the way we should go. That is why we cannot support the proposal, but we are certainly open to following developments in technology and to discuss it in the future when technology is better. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102809	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102812	It is only because it strikes me with a certain amazement that technology should be so hopelessly out-of-date, all the time that some of the countries we are related to culturally, geographically and otherwise use it. What is it the French have not understood in relation to, for example, this tool? And did Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær was in contact with other European countries, which have a similar architectural heritage as Denmark, to hear what they are doing with considerations?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102845	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102846	I have to admit, I haven't. When I say that technology is not useful, it is not because I will necessarily stand here and claim that I am an expert in three-d scanning or in the right way to preserve our architectural heritage, but because it is the assessment of the authorities responsible for that task. I'm pretty comfortable leaning on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102910	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102912	But Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær then, possibly through his minister, asked these authorities to ask the French, why on earth are they wasting all that money doing three-d scans?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102924	I can certainly say no to that. I have not asked that question, but I think it would be appropriate to bring in some of the international experience with three-d scans in committee. I certainly think we should look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102936	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204102940	Thank you. Now this is all new to me. I haven't dealt with that kind of technology. But I have a colonial garden house that I built myself. I have drawn that up with a pencil drawing, so I know how to build it again, because it is really worthy of preservation, because it is Danish working culture at its best. That's some other stuff. I have so many questions that we have to hold some meeting, either in committee or elsewhere, because I would like to understand this before I say yes or no to it. But I would like to see a plan for how we can clarify it and a plan for how comprehensive it should be, because I do not think that is very clear. Now Morten Messerschmidt will probably come to the platform at some point, and then he can explain how extensive this registration should be and when we can expect there to be a technology we can afford if it is to include 7,000 buildings. Or should it include only 300, or what should it be like? And if so, I would also like to see what such modern technologies can do. That is why I want to hear whether we could not make an agreement that, at least in the first place, between the two treatments we are discussing a plan for how we are getting smarter and a plan for how it could be rolled out. Because I also believe that there is something in the world that we are not fully aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103054	Thank you. And that's what Mr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103057	Like Mr. Christian Juhl, I am also looking forward to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt takes the platform and makes us wiser on the proposal here. I think it is quite obvious, and the Minister for Culture also mentioned that in the committee procedure we get our authorities and the Danish National Palace and Culture Authority to explain how we work with the task today, how they view the technology, and they are very happy to include international experience. So I am certainly open to the fact that we are giving it a good and thorough committee procedure, which may not necessarily lead to this particular resolution being adopted, but as if nothing else could result in us being more informed about the work on preserving our cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103140	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103143	It was right to the end, as I am pleased that the rapporteur said. Does this mean that if information is produced during the work of the committee, which actually explains that it is possible now and that it will have a good and positive effect, then the Social Democrats are willing to change their attitude to this if that knowledge emerges? The rapporteur himself says that the rapporteur does not have that knowledge now. So, if that knowledge comes to light during the committee work, is it open to reconsidering its position on the issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103208	I mean, what I said was that I would not claim to be an expert on either three-d scans or the best tools for preserving the architectural heritage. Fortunately, we have authorities there whose task it is to make an assessment, and until I have been informed that other things should be true, I lean on the assessment we have received from the Danish Palace and Culture Agency, which is, of course, that it will be expensive and that it will not have the usefulness that the proposal aims for. Having said that, however, as a basic principle, I will always be open to change my attitude if I am wiser or convinced by good arguments as to why it should be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103245	There are no more brief comments. We thank the Socialist rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Stén Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103302	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting forward a proposal that focuses on the preservation of our cultural history and building heritage; an legacy that we would like to be able to pass on to our children and grandchildren. After all, there are many examples that history can easily take place, and there is a risk that it will be forgotten. Of the original seven wonders of the world, we only have the pyramid in Giza left today. The rest have since been destroyed by earthquakes, fires, wars and other disasters. Unfortunately, these accidents are also happening in our time. Only three years ago Notre Dame, the Cathedral of Paris, burned. At home we are sitting today with the third edition of Christiansborg on top of two previous fires. Most recently there was a fire in Christiansborg Palace Church in 1992. It was a fire that subsequently led to a five-year reconstruction project. Generally speaking, our old historic buildings seem less fireproof and more fragile than we would like. The proposal here does not secure us against accidents, but with new technology and three-d scans of historic buildings, we may still be able to secure and strive to rebuild better, and it can be easier to move forward. The Left is therefore positive in relation to the intentions of the proposal. In fact, it seems like a good idea, which we would like to be allowed to discuss further. But there is also one but, as several speakers have said, that is the economy in which we also have to dig into it. After all, the proposers themselves contribute to the calculation of what the proposal may cost to implement. We would have liked to have examined this a little more closely, i.e. to get closer to what it really costs, but also to where the money can and must come from. We welcome the proposal and look forward to working together on it here in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103454	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103458	I have to apologize to my colleague, but sometimes I'm a little technological. An old architect-designed church like Notre-Dame is there, I think, done, I don't know many detailed drawings of, and that means that every single little detail has been drawn up with millimeters of precision, and I don't think we should be throwing grams on the architects and builders who at that time drew that kind of thing, it's probably also hidden and digitized and all that. That is why it is important for us to say: yes, yes, we must also be fascinated by the new technology, but we should not, of course, throw our hands on the enormously developed old-fashioned technology which was the basis of most buildings. I know that there are drawings on pretty much everything in this building, and that's why it can be reconstructed if those drawings aren't on fire at the same time. Could we not at first just get clarification and then get Messerschmidt to say that we have to make a plan? And if he's so much into this whole technology, he's gonna have to help the rest of us into that world, and then from a common platform we can start with what's most important and what can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103616	Once again, I would like to say that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt or the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103621	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the questioner for the question. I'm not going to throw up on the ancient architects and engineers who have drawn these drawings, and I would really like to discuss further in committee how this technology can be used together with the drawings that are, by the way, located. So let us continue the good discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103655	The next question is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103658	Thank you. Of course, there is an economic challenge that needs to be tackled, even though, from what I have been told, it should be of a rather limited nature, in relation to what else we spend on the maintenance of historic buildings and such. Then it's also my impression, but again, of course, I'm humbly wondering about this new technology, so it's not something I know with certainty that there can also be a saving in it, so that if you do these laser scans, you'll be able to see much more accurately if, for example. woodwork is crumbling, etc., than can be done by ordinary photography. There will then be an opportunity to intervene and make the necessary restorations before the damage becomes very extensive. So it's not really a question, it's more a comment and a receipt that you go positive into this. And if it is the economy that separates us, I think we can find a solution to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103754	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103755	Thank you. And thank you to the author... let's work together in committee on this fine proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103805	There are no further comments, so we thank Mr. Stén Knuth. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan Bjergskov Larsen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204103821	I have very much sympathy for the essence of this proposal. I think we agree that our building and construction heritage is unique. I myself am from Roskilde, where the significance of the cathedral for the city and the history of Denmark is almost invaluable. By the way, it burned in 1968 and was rebuilt without three-d. We can support the intention of the proposal, namely to safeguard and protect the cultural heritage that has made us the nation we are. So it is an important task to protect our heritage, but we can be doubtful about whether this proposal is the right one. The minister has very well explained some of the uncertainties that lie in using three-d scans. At the same time, we also find it expensive and it is unreasonable to throw a bill of 16 million. kr. on the Building Agency for this. It is still uncertain whether there is a need for three-d-scan as a supplement that it is certainly not clear for SF • compared to assessing how many buildings there are conservationable and protected and on which there are no drawings. So here comes a hint to the Minister that the committee might well need to discuss the matter more and clarify what the need really is and whether this could be a supplement or whether it is just superfluous. That is why we cannot support the proposal immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104003	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104009	Thank you, sir. Jan Bjergskov Larsen for the positive tones, including the natural and healthy scepticism that must of course be with new technology that is in its infancy. This is also true in France and other countries. What just makes me take the floor is this focus on the economics. Well, it's estimated at 16 million. kr., and that, if so, is a one-off cost out of a cultural budget, which is of course many, many billions of dollars. And when I think about what the cost would be if one day the accident might be out again, as we have seen with the Church of Castle or elsewhere, which the rapporteur also mentions is 16 million. kr. so much money to give for having drawings that allow you to reconstruct buildings that have a vital importance in relation to the history of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104102	Thank you. The primary argument for SF is not necessarily the economy, but it is an overview of whether there is a real need and it is still unresolved. As far as the economy is concerned, for a proposal, whether or not it is 2 million. kr. or 100 million kr., so long as it's unfunded and you haven't pointed out where to find the money, we're skeptical about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104127	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104129	That's perfectly reasonable. I just don't think it's 16 million. kr. in the cultural budget, which is going to overturn the load, as it were. I just want to sign for the positive approach. Does the rapporteur agree that we in the Danish Parliament, possibly in a report, if that is the case, Mr President? Christian Juhl has in mind that I sense it a little • initiates a work where we also look at the foreign experience that is, with scans?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104157	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104159	After all, I am not a permanent rapporteur in this area, so I do not want to take the rapporteur hostage to it, but I think that we can start by creating that overview, which I hear the Minister suggesting that it should be discussed in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104216	There are no more inscribed for short remarks, so we thank the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104224	We cannot support the proposal, but we think it is very interesting to continue to explore the possibilities of using this technology to uncover our cultural heritage. A number of figures are given in relation to the economy. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt mentions the figure 16 million. kr., and I hear the Minister say 40 million. kr. for 30 buildings, and you can then multiply that up to these thousands of buildings that are protected. So you can say that it must at least be unveiled. As I hear the Minister and the Minister's officials, they do not believe that technology is mature. I have no reason to doubt that, so I think that is an important argument for not supporting the resolution. But then I must also say that if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is right that technology is mature, I cannot really understand why the Danish People's Party has not brought it into the financial law negotiations. Because then it is really an economic issue, and then Mr. Morten Messerschmidt the better than so many others that that is where the question should be raised, and not here. That is why it is a little free of charge, and this is not the first time we have had such a proposal from the Danish People's Party or other parties for that matter. But if this really is an economic issue, it is something you bring into a financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104351	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104353	I think that is quite easy to clarify. After all, I addressed the Minister for Culture directly when a Finance Act was negotiated, with a request that we should be able to take part in the negotiations, and there was never an answer to that. So, not only did I not receive an invitation to finance the negotiations by the Minister for Culture, and I even asked myself if I could get an invitation, but I did not respond to my request for an invitation and just left it in the dark. Would Mrs Zenia Stampe, who, of course, has a rather more intimate connection with the Minister, ask the Minister to respond in the future to my request to be invited to the negotiations that Mrs Zenia Stampe would like me to take part in?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104432	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104433	I now asked first of all that it appeared on a financial bill from the Danish People's Party, and I do not recall that. But I remember that some people once made such a comprehensive list of all the motions for resolutions tabled by the Danish People's Party, and what that would cost, if you put the economy on all of them, and that was, in principle, the financial bill that you had to come up with. But finding the money will probably be a little difficult, and that's just why I think you have to go a little bit more objectively to this problem. I do not think that culture is a service by making such free symbolic political proposals in the Assembly rather than actually using its influence when you have it. Because it is true that I now have more privileged access to the Minister, as long as I sit in a support party for the Minister. But Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and Dansk Folkeparti have been a support party for Danish governments for many years in the last 20 years, and I have not heard that this priority has been included. On the contrary, a lot of small amounts have been received for various cultural institutions • small symbolic amounts • but this priority I have not yet heard that the Danish People's Party has really arrived at when they have had the influence and it has been time to negotiate about the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104542	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104543	I assume that Mrs Zenia Stampe has read the motion for a resolution that would be weird if she did not, if I know her and that is why she will also know that what is happening here is what has happened in the Notre Dame Church quite a few years before it burns. It is therefore perhaps a bit violent to imagine that this is something we should have brought in, while at the same time building a new roof at Roskilde Cathedral or the Viking Ship Museum in Roskilde, or whatever it may be, all the time that technology at least for us was not known and apparently not for Mrs Zenia Stampe either. Because then she'd probably have brought it in. But the question was: will Mrs Zenia Stampe prompt me to take part in the negotiations next year? Because then we'll bring it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104620	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104621	I'm not the one who decides who's going to be called for negotiations. But at least I think, sir. Morten Messerschmidt has to bring it up in the budget negotiations. Now, sir. Morten Messerschmidt also became party chairman, so I will look into the Danish People's Party's Finance Act in this year, to see if it is also on the list of proposals. Because I think it can only be taken seriously if it is also brought forward where we are negotiating the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104648	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104651	I always enjoy these little intermezzos between Mrs. Zenia Stampe and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and then on a Friday morning it can get anyone in a mood of joy. But I'd like to ask you a question so that we can just get confirmation. After all, the Finance Act reserves an unspent reserve, both in the field of culture, but also in a large number of other areas, for initiatives during the year if you wish to take them. In other words, there is no idea that we can only adopt something on the Finance Act itself and that the rest of the year cannot be anything at all. Can't you just confirm that there is a reserve, which is actually still a unused reserve, on the Finance Act, which you can use for new initiatives? Do you think these are the right initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104732	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104732-2	No, I can come up with a great many other initiatives, which I would rather support than an immature technology, where there is a great deal of uncertainty about what it will actually cost to use it for all the protected buildings, and especially in view of the situation we have had over the last two years with corona, where many cultural institutions have been hard hit by decommissioning. There I can think of better ways to spend the money than this initiative, which I think is exciting, but where I think we can get a lot more for the money and that I think is something that usually takes on New Citizens if we push it for a few years and the technology matures further.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104810	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104811	Yes, yes, and that is a political point of view, and it is a completely valid point of view if you do not think that the money should be spent on this. I merely contested the fact that new policy measures could not be taken during the year and that all policy measures should come and be presented in the Finance Act. And there I just pointed out that there is a reserve and Mrs Zenia Stampe knows that too, because she has been involved in financial laws that stand unspent, both for the government's own actions, but also for every resort area that you can use on new initiatives, if you think they are right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104838	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104838-2	I know there aren't really that many unspent reserves in the Ministry of Culture. Well, we sometimes have great pleasure sitting around and discussing how to spend 3.4 million. DKK left over in a distribution piece, etc. etc. So I know there aren't big reserves in the Ministry of Culture, and if there were, I had a lot of good ideas about how they could be used. And there were probably a number of other ideas that would come before this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104903	There are no more brief comments. We thank the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204104912	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the proposal. Before the proposal, I wasn't aware of this technology. I think it sounds exciting. I even think we can learn something from it. I do my own genealogy with great pleasure. In the old days, we were watching the national archives and were supposed to have the files ordered home. They were then laid in front of us during opening hours. It was a very slow process. We cheered when we got the first digital copies of the church books, because then we could sit at our kitchen table and do genealogy. Some photos were a little unclear, they were in black and white. Last year we got the first digital color pictures of the church books. Now they're being photographed again, and it takes some time, and it's a little expensive. But there you can read even the old Gothic letters knife sharp. This means that it has given me great private pleasure, for I can read my ancestors' names more accurately, perhaps also some data I could not read before. But the technology is evolving all the time. I'm not as technologically frightened as I might have been, but I'm a little skeptical sometimes, I have to admit. I haven't bought a Tesla yet. I would like to see how it develops. I don't have a modern electric bike either. I am still driving away on my old Nimbus, but it is now more such for cultural historical reasons that I keep it, because I think it was a great time for the development of motorcyclism that Denmark then had its own motorcycle. Now it sounds like I'm talking around, but that's not what I wanted to say. Because there's actually a lot of technology that's evolving. We can breathe along the way and find out if we can use it. This seems to be useful for a lot of things. So when the Minister says that there are 7,100 listed buildings, I would like to remind you that these are the buildings of the upper class most of them, i.e. castles, large church buildings. Messerschmidt mentioned the cathedrals in particular. Yes, that's fine, but the village churches and the farm workers' houses are just as important to our cultural heritage. I only visit ordinary people's homes when I am at Brede or elsewhere, and then later I look around Copenhagen at castles and fine palaces. Because they're well-written, the others aren't. They have even gone very, very far. I would like to remind you that in Silkeborg we had a lot of workers' homes, which except one is completely gone now, with large ugly concrete houses instead. This means that some of the most important cultural heritage was built in Silkeborg. Their homes are barely accessible. We have one place where we can see it, whereas Drewsen's fine mansions and villas are of course well preserved. Therefore, it is important that we also talk about what it is for some things that are important for us to be able to be careful if there is a fire, a flood or something else. I can also say that it is fine if this technology is, as Messerschmidt describes it, and if there are buildings that are not well enough described so, I mentioned this house or castle, or whatever to call it. It's drawn in the smallest detail, including the characters and everything else. Notre Dame is the sign. I think that there are many thousands of drawings lying down in Paris, because the builders knew it was something big they made, and of course they were archived, they were not thrown away when the part of the building was built, which they had now made the detailed drawings of. That is why there is a overlap, so that we can manage with those drawings from then on. And maybe supplement with this technology where we have nothing. That is why I would like to hear more about it. And then you can say that all these things I should know. I don't. I don't know these things, and I want to know. After all, it is a Parliament where we have a little different competences and have to help each other with it. But I feel a little bit about a proposal like this, that ideas should be on the table. New things we need to hear about. Then we will have to debate and then we will have to become wiser, and then we will have to make some decisions and involve it if it can be used for something sensible. I also feel that ten years ago, in the Enhedslisten, we took a decision in principle that when we vote for some proposals or put them forward ourselves, we must provide funding. I do not think that is difficult either, but I also dream of a time like the one that Messerschmidt is talking about, where there are a lot of billions of dollars in the cultural field. I'm afraid there isn't. After all, in the Folketing we have a minimalist budget for culture in my view. That is all, too small to be able to accommodate everything that we want from both activities and activities, but also what we want to preserve from the old culture, the old cultural values. Then we will have to fight together to expand the budget at the same time. But we must at least make an initial estimate of what different development models in this area could cost, and then we can try to see if we can agree on what these are most important buildings and how we can plan them. I would like to take part in that debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204105427	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. But for the third time in this debate, I have to introduce correct forms of indictment. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204105449	Thank you for that, President. I am not the rapporteur in this area. It is, however, Mrs Birgitte Bergman who is unfortunately absent. But I promised to read her speech. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for focusing on the Danish cultural heritage. We have a common responsibility to preserve and disseminate Danish cultural history, and a large part of that history is found in our Danish historical buildings and larger building heritage, which has a special cultural value and history. Those buildings are very much involved in creating the cultural anchoring in Denmark, we know yes, houses and buildings with history have an impact on Danish everyday life. They make the hearts of the Danes beat. At least there are indications of that. Old houses make us a little happier; it shows a study from Realdania from 2020 which has taken the temperature of the Danes' relationship to cultural heritage and the buildings that bear a special story. With the motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, the Ministry of Culture will be required to draw up a programme on how the unique Danish building and cultural heritage will be mapped and three-d-documented, so that similar models can be produced for example. reconstruction in case of fire, storm flood, vandalism etc. We think it is important that there is clear practice and clear rules in this area, but we lack a better overview of what the rules are today. What is being done in practice, what solutions are being used already today, can it be done better, and what are the economy and the calculations? There are many unanswered questions which are quite relevant to clarify. We would very much like that to happen before we impose a proper programme on anyone. So our position is that we will have a closer look at it in committee and, in that respect, we are also in agreement with a report that will have the Ministry investigate the matter further. I am sure that we can have a good dialogue, both with the proposers and with the minister, on this subject. It is in the interests of all of us to safeguard Danish culture and Danish history. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204105710	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204105713	Thank you, Mr President. I think it was just as well covered by the Conservative rapporteur. I have many examples from the municipalities that Conservative city council politicians and Left politicians and even DFs have developed a new form of local development ■ in Silkeborg we call it vandalism because you simply smash the old and build ugly, big concrete houses in pursuit of profit and let private contractors bang up what they want in the city centers. It counts more that you can build something new that you can make money on than to keep the old. There I think the Conservatives might be a little self-critical and look inwards and say to their politicians: we must also take care of what we have. Because Conservatives don't always do that. I have a number of examples of this because I have collected them, and there I think the rapporteur could perhaps be a little more self-critical than that self-glorification.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204105815	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204105816	Thank you for that comment. Now, as I have said, I am not the rapporteur in this area, and I have no specific knowledge of how to behave in the municipality of Silkeborg and elsewhere. But otherwise it is a good conservative idea to preserve what we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204105836	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204105838	Well, that could lead me to invite the rapporteur to Silkeborg. I assume that a conservative will defend conservative policy and then it could be that we could have a dialogue between the local conservatives and then the rapporteur in this case. At least, as a principle, we must try to maintain that buildings other than protected buildings are also worth preserving. And in relation to the city centre at all, you have to try to maintain the impression that is in an old town centre and not just knock concrete in here and there and everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204105910	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204105911	Well, I agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that sometimes there are some inappropriate things going on in relation to the way in which urban planning is planned; it should not be a secret. I myself have seen some things in my own hometown, Hjørring, which I actually thought was inappropriate in principle, and that may be a problem. But thank you for inviting me to come to Silkeborg. I'd like that. And I know that there is an excellent regatta in Silkeborg, and it might collapse, so that you could have two flies slammed with a spank there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204105947	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204110003	Thank you. Well, there's a lot of good things going on in Silkeborg, you might say. There's a jazz festival and everything else, and it smells like a little field trip to Silkeborg. There's a couple of good taverns we can go by as soon as we're there. So I'll be happy to join the Glee Club driving past Silkeborg. Then I will move on to this motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, which I think is very sensible on a long stretch. I'd like to address the 16 million. kr. or the 44 million kr. First. I mean, we just delivered $500 million. kr. to Ukraine. Don't say it's the economy on this issue that's a problem. So you could say that it's 7,000, and then it's gonna be a bigger amount, yeah, but what if we started with the main buildings first? Then it may well be that we can work our way down to a single small residence in Ribe afterwards, which is also protected and which we may be able to wait with. However, we have some major historical buildings which it would be sensible to start with. Then I hear the government says Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen says: Yeah, but the technology isn't right for that. That's a point of view. But I would like to see some of the private architects, some of the surveyors, who are actually doing these three-d scans, involved and summoned in the committee procedure, because they are already doing so. And there's got to be a reason they're already doing it; there's got to be a reason you're using this technology for builders to build new ones. That's how you can reconstruct these buildings down to 1 mm's accuracy from 70 m's distance. And it will not be the first time in the history of the world that the private is ahead, you can say, the politicians and the official work in Denmark. So just to accept that the official work says that we can't use this as the truth, I'm not buying it. So I would recommend that in the committee work we get some of these private companies who are actually using this technology to answer the committee's questions about what it can actually be used for. The fact is that in a large number of areas abroad, we are already in full swing with this. There are American companies like CyArk, a private company, and the French company Iconem, who are also doing these things. It's all around the world. Historical monuments, historical buildings are one and have been in full process of three-d-scanning and 3-d-scanning. It's not like you're using today's technology to write off the work that people have done in the past. It's an improvement. Now that this technology, which I actually believe on long stretches is available and usable for what you need to use it for, I very much do not want us to get started on it and then say that ah, that was just the 44 million. kr., and that we'll be standing in 2 years and Ribe Cathedral now I'm from Ribe has been burned down and we can't actually reconstruct it. In other words, to compare damage to Danish cultural heritage with 44 million. kr. It is absurd to have that discussion at all. So we are very, very open to this proposal, and I would hope that the proposers too can see an idea in getting these private companies who are actually doing this in order to perhaps have a more in-depth and objective debate on whether the technology is actually there. And then I hope that those parties which are reasonable enough to hesitate, if you do not have a specialised knowledge of this now, will support it if, in the course of the committee's work, it emerges that the technology is actually there and the private companies that have to carry out this, well believe that we can do it. I have seen in completely private homes how they actually already perform it extremely, very precisely. So it has to be the words from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204110347	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204110350	Well, that's how we always work; if we get smarter, we think about the new opportunities. We have been discussing chart surveying in Greenland for six years, and there was a company that said: we can everything from a plane, and it costs only a tenth of what it costs with chart survey from a ship. It just turned out that there were incredibly great inaccuracies. This means that we did not go any further with the new technology in that case than we did with the old drawings, which have an uncertainty of 100 m or how much it is now, and it is quite dangerous up in Greenland where you can sail into an iceberg or a mountain. And that's why we had to say: that technology isn't developed enough yet, it can't make miracles, so we're still going to have to use the ships, and it's expensive. That is why I think we should also consider what kind of buildings it is necessary to do three-d scans of. If there are complete sets of drawings for a building, we should probably wait with that building and instead take those that aren't drawings of, i.e. if we need that technology and that work. And I guess it's okay that you get proof that it can be used. I mean, we usually save a little on the citizens' money in here, which is why it is good to do it in this case too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204110506	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204110509	I do not know whether I agree with the latter, i.e. that in here we usually save a little on citizens' money; I do not think so. We have the highest tax burden in the world and I do not think that politicians spend the money very wisely. But there are very, very big differences between some drawings that may have been made in the last century or 200-300 years ago... it can also be just drawings from the 1950s, 1960s, 1970s... which are two-d drawings, maybe one-d drawings, and then a three-d scan, which completely with millimetre precision can account for the details of the architecture, i.e. these elements that are important to get with when something needs to be recreated. I've seen a lot of basic drawings that, overall, can be fine, but it wasn't, if you just think back to the 1950s and 1960s, millimeter correctness that stood for when you had to build by looking at those drawings. If you have just tried to renovate your own building or a commercial building or something else and have gone to the archive and found the drawings and then try to look at where the pipes were, how the electricity was, and everything else, it is almost impossible. And then try to think of a historic building! No, I'm not buying that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204110617	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204110619	Now I have used old drawings myself, for I live in a house that is 125 years old, and no power or water was added when they built it; it has come to later. There I have seen drawings with small notes that there and there you did it and that, and that there must be 3.7 cm from that edge, etc. That is to say, I have been able to use them quite precisely in relation to it. Now I would like to remind you that an ordinary craftsman is still using a thumb stick, which is called a thumb stick, because at that time they were working in inches and not in centimeters and millimeters. I believe that we must now be careful that we do not make it all a question of cultural heritage. We have to try to prioritise, including here. And I don't know why suddenly there's no limit to how much money we can spend. We have to have an estimate of the cost of this, too, a priority for the tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204110704	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204110706	Uh, yeah, I don't disagree with that. I also said in my rapporteur's speech that 7 000 listed buildings were mentioned: let us start with the most important ones. But just look around in this room... a drawing of this room with correct meters... and everything else wouldn't be able to recreate this beautiful room. A drawing and a description of a sculpture can not, but it can be a picture and a three-d scan of the sculpture. So to dismiss it, a technology that is being used abroad already now, we are absolutely not willing to do in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204110740	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. We now give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204110750	Thank you, President. During the debate here, I have been wondering whether I should make a final speech on the actual proposal or whether consideration should be given to what is creating the political scene in this country. Because that is, at least when you hear some rapporteurs, as if it was a bit of an exercise to find out what to do to explain why you are voting against this proposal. For basically, I think that we all want what the proposal does, namely to use the latest technology which can ensure, in the most efficient, precise and cheap way, that if the accident is out, we can restore or at least preserve the memory of the buildings that we may have. Well, this isn't about alone, as Mr. Christian Juhl mentioned the need to restore old workers' buildings or medieval cathedrals. It's possible with the technology we know. In France, at least, we see steps towards this. But it can also have a value in itself that you have such precise drawings and scans of them that you may be able to maintain your memory digitally and visually. It is not everything that must be restored because it is protected, but having a cultural heritage, having a history and a memory of what was, in itself, has a value. There will be the arguments that have been put forward for voting against this proposal, which is rather striking. One is the economy, and that's where I'm just gonna have to give Mr. Simpson. Lars Boje Mathiesen is right that, in relation to the overall state budget and to the overall cultural budget, this is not what is going to fall down, and certainly not in relation to what the restoration costs are often, if something is burning or if there is a terrorist attack, as we have unfortunately also seen in France. Due to Muslim immigration there are still more of the ordinary churches and cathedrals, etc. in France, which is subject to assassinations. We hope not to come to Denmark, but who knows. That's where it's valuable to have these records. Then we heard from the Radical Left rapporteur, who is then no longer present in the Chamber, that we have not put forward the proposal in the financial law negotiations. Now it may be that Mrs. Zenia Stampe is looking with somewhere out in the digital universe. Our financial rapporteur certainly does, because he has sent me exactly the amendment on three-d scans of historic buildings, like Notre-Dame, in the event of fire and the like that we have tabled, and I have that in front of me. It has therefore been negotiated and put forward in the context of the financial law negotiations, so it is also a strange argument to bring forward. Maybe it's all covering up the fact that this is just snuff, all the time that you're already using three-d scans in private. If you had used that very, very modern instrument called Google, then you would be able to seek out all sorts of companies that offer solutions on how to get three-d-scanned your own home or larger facilities for a relatively cheap money. It is a technology that is in rapid development. Of course you have to be skeptical, sir. Christian Juhl. It's not like everything that's new is good. I have sometimes made it my slogan to say no to new, but right here I would say that when it comes to using the new to preserve the old, I think we should look into it. If that's what I hear, sir. Christian Juhl says that we, for example. in a text in a report may agree to explore the possibilities, ask the French, ask the Germans and others who have a building stock and a historical heritage that is architecturally similar to ours, that is what we are doing. So let us start with that, and hopefully we can land a majority around the red parties, who have had to knock knots on their minds and tongues to find explanations of why they will vote against this resolution. When it is important to us in the Danish People's Party, it is because the whole story of us as people, as Danes, as belonging to a certain tradition, an inheritance, a culture, is challenged. We live in a time when everything has to be boiled down to individualisation, where everything has to be questioned: Are we Danish at all? What exactly is Denmark? Isn't it just a modern construction that has grown out of 1864? No! And there we must have history as a bulwark against the distortion of what until a few years ago were common facts. There are buildings important, not because, as Mr. Christian Juhl mentioned, a workman's building or a worker for that matter is seen as less significant for the history of Denmark than Bishop Absalon or a king, but because we have to have it all with us. Therefore, I am completely open to the fact that the broad palette of protected buildings must be preserved and secured in relation to a reconstruction if the accident is out, and also a general digitalisation of the cultural heritage, because it is the story and the buildings where Danes have lived their lives for 1,000 years. Whether they have eaten oysters or cabbage soup, that is what has been the framework for Denmark. That's why this is important. So I hope so, sir. Christian Juhl, that we can find each other in and thus create a majority in order to make a report in which we can agree without snobbery, regardless of or the idea that there is something more important than anything else in relation to clergy or place in society, that these buildings must be preserved and digitised, and that we also, as I naturally sign for both the speeches by the Conservatives, the Left and the New Citizens, have a majority in favour of getting that work started. Just sitting here waiting for a government that does not even follow up an invitation to invite us to negotiations, I think is reasonably poor. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204111402	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204111407	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to remind the rapporteur of the proposers that oysters were, after all, the everyday diet of the Stone Age people. It wasn't such fine food to that extent. It is more now because it is expensive to find the few oysters that are left. I think that the proposers are somehow trying to demean some of us who should vote for this proposal if it is intended to be voted home. And I think that's a stupid tactic. Why should I listen to a theoretical thought that a Muslim might make a terrorist attack and that we should therefore do three-d scans of our old buildings. For me, this is a slightly sought explanation. I apologise, I say it and I think we could make this debate a little more public, so I would urge the rapporteur to do so if he wants a majority in favour of it. I think there's a matter in this, there's an essentiality that it's worth investigating. Shouldn't we start with that? Could we not also try to find out which tasks are most important? Because we know that the large houses are designed, the drawings are quite capable, and I don't think you should belittle that. They can easily be used if the house burns or the flood removes it, and there we have to talk about reality, not some theoretical things that might happen and probably never happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204111532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204111535	Well, I'm sorry, sir. Christian Juhl has taken this as a provocation. My speech was, in effect, intended to accommodate Mr. Christian Juhl's concerns about the working people for hundreds of years, as evidently with Mr. Christian Juhl plays a greater role than for example. men's houses and stuff. So it was to this extent an attempt to meet it. And then may I not in relation to oysters in the Danish gastronomy just come there too Mr. Christian Juhl met and said that it was an integral part of the Stone Age, among other things. In Ertebølleculturen, oyster eating was one of the main ingredients, so it's just another area where we can dream ourselves back to former greatness.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204111616	Here you go, sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204111618	Yes, or, for that matter, the farmers in Silkeborg who wrote into their contract that they wanted salmon for a maximum of 1 day a week, and that is how it changes from culture to culture, in terms of what is expensive and what is fine. I think we should look into this and I think we should do it with an open mind and not drag other indifferent things into it. Otherwise we will never have a majority in favour of such a proposal if there is substance in it. And then I think we should try to get the analyses that are on the table, the experts there are, but we should also be able to find out whether the drawings that are above the old buildings are actually adequate, so that we can go to those who, for example, are able to do so. isn't a sketch.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204111656	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204111700	I don't think there was a question, so I really just want to express my full sympathy for it, Mr. President. Christian Juhl just said.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204111706	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur for the authors of the motion. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204111729	The debate is open. First we give the floor to the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204111741	Thank you. I believe that all parties, and this applies across the parties of the Folketing, agree that the conditions of birth in Denmark need to be improved. The conditions we have and which we have had for several years we have to admit that are not satisfactory and need to be improved. It's not to cut everyone over a comb. There are, of course, many places where it is good, but it is therefore a major problem for our society that we have not been good enough to ensure that bringing children into the world, which is something very special, is done safely and safely. Nor are we good enough to prevent postpartum depressions and the aftereffects of some insecure experiences. When you talk to employees and to those who have been through some of the experiences, you have to say that action is needed. That is why, I think, it is wise and right that we should finally lift up the field of birth significantly. It is necessary that the hard-pressed food sections be given a helping hand. They're under pressure. After all, we have seen examples of women being sent home in some places shortly after birth, and elsewhere the staff run far too quickly in some places both apply. That is why, with the Finance Act that was adopted shortly before Christmas, the Finance Act 2022, together with the parties to the agreement, we have decided to lift this area significantly. A total of 475 million has been committed. kr. over the next four years to the birth area. And $100 million is being set aside. kr. this year, i.e. 2022, and that amount then rises towards 2025, where it will be 150 million. kr. It is all to strengthen the area and provide security and presence and it is both before, during and after birth. We really need that money, because we need to do better for those who are born. Our task is to ensure that the money is put into effect so that it can be felt, both by the prospective and newly baked parents and by the employees of the maternity wards. It is also clear from the Finance Act that the funds must be used to guarantee the rights of the child and of several midwives. It is now up to the parties to the agreement to look at how much money is going to be spent on more midwives and what are the requirements of those who are giving birth to them. However, there is no doubt that more hands and better standards on the feeding routes should be focused. This may also mean sharing tasks more wisely and organising work more appropriately with regard to shift schedules, etc. That is why the Finance Act has also provided funds for the Danish Health Authority to initiate an analysis and mapping of the norms in the field of birth. I can inform the Danish Parliament that we are currently engaged in negotiations with the parties behind the financial law of the year. I would like to thank the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Christian Democrats for helping to negotiate this money home and now participate in this negotiation process, where we are putting together these funds for the benefit of the people who are giving birth and, of course, also for the benefit of the staff. In addition to the funds provided for in the Finance Act, there are already funds and initiatives working in our regions, because we also prioritised the birth area in the 2022 Economic Agreement on the economy of the regions. It was intended to strengthen svangroomsorgen and create differentiated offers for families. It was based on the Danish Health Authority's professional recommendations for the svangroomsorgen, which appeared in September the year before. This involves, for example, preparation for birth in small teams, an early midwife consultation, a special focus on the needs of vulnerable pregnant women and enhanced telephone counselling. I note that all regions are aware of the priority given to the food sector, and if we look at the budgets of the regions adopted under our economic agreement, four out of five regions have allocated additional funds to the food sector. What about the last region, which is Region of North Jutland? I can inform you that that region already has a high level of professionalism and uniform offer across the place of birth of the region. So it is not because the birth area is not a priority there. The fact that we are making an economic agreement where some funds have been set aside and where there is an agreement to follow up on some professional recommendations from the Danish Health Service is, after all, another step that has been taken and is now being rolled out. And, as I have said, we are negotiating with the parties to the agreement the implementation of financial legislation in the field of birth. I think it seems most logical to most people in here that we cannot therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, as long as negotiations are under way and we have set aside money for that boost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204112324	Thank you to the Minister for Health. There is one comment from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204112336	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Minister for your reply. The Minister says that all the parties in this Chamber agree that something needs to be done. And we have been doing this for a very long time, because we have been debating this subject for a very, very long time. Among other things: After all, the Left has helped to push, and we are also pleased to hear that there are some ongoing negotiations in the field of birth, because we need that for a very long time. The Left's initiative here today, which is, after all, a motion for a resolution which started as a move last year, is, overall, about us wanting to ensure that the birthers have a more genuine freedom of choice and some more rights. And I am glad to hear that the Minister has started to include more and more of the Left's ideas in the thinking about what is going to happen in the field of birth. That is certainly positive. But one thing that the Minister has not yet mentioned from the Left proposal is one of our proposals for more free elections. In other words, we want it to be possible to choose, as a child, for example. a private clinic. We've seen it in Roskilde I've visited the place myself, and it's a fantastic place that the birthers are really happy about. And I am sorry that the Minister is not trying to ensure that the birthers also have a genuinely free choice in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204112443	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204112446	Unfortunately, the massive problems, the hard work pressure and the far too many births that are taking place in ways that give insecurity and cause some bad progress are not something that has just come 21⁄2 years ago when government responsibilities changed. It was a long time before that. So if you in the Left have had this attitude for a long time, perhaps you could have done something about it yourself. You didn't choose to do that when you were in charge. Now we are in charge and we are doing We allocate these funds, and I am sure that will be felt out there, and I think it is right to do both to make an agreement with the regions, what we did before summer, and then also to make a financial agreement upstairs, where we translate this money. With regard to the specific issue of the Left's proposal and this proposal, I am sorry to disappoint the questioner. I do not come here from the platform to go into the specific proposals. And I know that is unsatisfactory, but it is simply in respect of the fact that we are having a debate with those parties on the implementation of those funds in the Finance Act, and I think it would be inappropriate for me to go in now and say for or against. But we can have that debate as soon as we have a final mint deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204112554	Here you go, Mrs. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204112559	Thank you. To the first part, it is not true that the Left has not given priority to this area. Well, when Ellen Trane Nørby was back in 2016, I think it was, 50 million were just set aside. kr., I think it was, the next four years in the future. So it is just in order to say in relation to that problem that it is simply not right. Now we have been discussing this for a year and respect for the fact that we are sitting and negotiating, but then I can only be sorry that my motion for a resolution has just come to the Chamber at that time, because I have just asked about this earlier, when I was unable to get a clear answer either. So now I just ask one last time: when one of the things that is really being demanded in the real world among citizens is that you have to have a real free choice, why is it that the government does not take the lead in doing something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204112639	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204112643	If you think you did well enough in this area when you were in government, then it may be surprising that there is a need for such a large injection of salt, so much money, now. So I think we have to say that it was not done well enough. But it doesn't matter to those who have to give birth now and here they need us to do well enough in the future. And that's what we've set aside money to do. It is not true that nothing has happened. As I said, the Danish Health Service made their recommendations; we have made an agreement with the regions and put money off the Finance Act. And, as I said, we are discussing concrete elements with the financial law parties, and that agreement must have been implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204112715	Thank you to the Minister for Health. There are no more brief comments. The first in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Camilla Fabricius from the Socialist Group. We no longer need to wipe off according to the new guidelines of the health authorities. Thank you, Minister for Health, but I would like to make sure that I am not contagious). It is extremely zealous and caring. Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204112742	Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for highlighting a very important issue. Ensuring a high quality in the field of birth concerns both the child, the mother and the partner. The birth area thus consists not only of one focus area, but of several. It is important that when we talk about the birth area, we have an eye on several different areas. One of the areas is of course about the child, as the goal of pregnancy and childbirth is to bring a small new human being to the world. That is why the focus on the child itself is, of course, a great deal. Is the child best placed to grow and thrive inside his stomach? How do we ensure that the child comes to life well during birth? And how does our skilled health care provider ensure that parents receive proper guidance after birth? But even though the goal of it all is the little new human being, it is important that we also focus on the mother and the partner, and that we have it throughout the process from pregnancy to birth and in the months after, during the barrel. To the mother, carrying and bringing a child to the world is a huge achievement, both physically and psychologically. That is why it is also important that we create a secure framework for both presence and support throughout the process. This must first of all apply through pregnancy, where we ensure that the pregnant woman is given the necessary information about what is to be expected, both in terms of pregnancy, birth and also in terms of post-natal time. But also during pregnancy there is a great potential for prevention in relation to the long-term health of both mother and child. Many pregnancy-related diseases and difficulties can be prevented by getting the right advice, treatment and support. This is also where we take care of vulnerable and vulnerable mothers and families... get them screened and taken care of. It is therefore not only a question of creating a secure environment for future mothers; it is indeed also a question of general public health. Secondly, we must also ensure a secure framework for birth. A birth is hard, no matter who you ask. But we can see that there are too many variations in the experiences compared to what is a good birth. Over the past few months we have heard too many stories, as the Minister also said earlier on the platform of giving birth, experiencing a lack of time, presence and guidance. That is why for many people this has resulted in an insecure and bad experience, and that is not how it should be. As a society, we must be able to help and support so that the birth becomes a good experience and it becomes a good starting point for the child. This is important because a birth is an event that is remembered for the rest of life and therefore can also have consequences which are quite elongated. While some choose to become parents on their own, there are, of course, many who do so together, and therefore it is also important that we have a focus on the partner. Although it is the woman who carries and gives birth to the child, it is a big change for both parents to have a child, and there are many worries. Therefore, it is also essential that both parties be involved and receive the necessary advice, guidance and information, both through pregnancy, childbirth and barslen. We think this is essential. This is also where we ensure that there will be a fight with the inequality we see in terms of health. As things stand right now, I think we can all agree that the birth area needs a big boost. That is why I am pleased that the Finance Act provides for a large amount of money for the birth area, and I would like to thank the Finance Law parties for having a strong focus on the birth area. The money comes on top of the boosts that have been given to the regions by the economic agreements, as the Minister also described. We are currently putting that money into effect, as the Minister also said in a debate with the Finance Parties. In view of this, too, we in the Socialist Group reject the resolution, and we want to focus on the good process in the negotiations. But I would also like to say that I take the resolution as an expression of a broad desire in the Folketing to strengthen and discuss the field of birth and to ensure a good birth area. I think that is very, very positive. However, as I said, the Social Democrats do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204113222	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Camilla Fabricius, for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. We are skipping the Left at this stage because the authors of the motion come from the Left, and then we would like to welcome Mrs Liselott Blixt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204113243	Thank you very much, and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for the opportunity to debate the subject in hand. I would like to start by saying that we support everything we can do to create better conditions. This, of course, means that we can back up, even if there are some things in relation to the demands that we might think should be able to be different. First of all, we find it sad that we have reached where we have to put everything in solid boxes, in relation to what you have of rights. The proposal brings it here with two days, on which the Social Democratic Party also voted, in other words, that you should be entitled to two days as a first-time source. And I also think it's fine if that's what it takes, but I'm just afraid that sometimes we forget to look at the individual and forget to look at what the individual needs, so that we can come up with an individual treatment for the individual. There are a lot of first-time birthers who can get in to feed and come back home right away. There are also some second-time feeders who do not have enough for 1 day, but may need 5 days, because there are different needs. Sometimes I'm a little tired of us thinking that everything can be put in boxes and that that's the way it is. There may be a second-time feeding that needs a little more help, because it may have been a more difficult birth or there has been something wrong. There may be something social at home or whatever it may be that makes you need it and needs it. For many years, the Health Authority has made some good recommendations in this area, but they have not been followed in the regions, and I believe that the regions have lost the responsibility they have had and have had to face up to it. But having said that, as has also been done here by the Left, we have to say: what do we think is the minimum that should be? All I know is that many times when we make legislation in here, it sometimes becomes a maximum. So, it says that there is a right to one day, or that there is a right to two days when you are first-born, so it is, and then you forget to look at the individual. At the same time, there are some other points, for example. It's about being free to choose between private and public. I think that's really nice. We have that in the Region of Zealand, where I belong, and that is not because they are overloaded or used a lot. I would say that I have two daughters who have recently given birth here, and no one has wanted to take it privately, although I am a great advocate of it. So for the fact that you think everyone's going over there, I'd say it's not like that. And it also turns out that Region Sjælland actually saves money on having a private effort. So, of course, we must be free to choose. One of the proposals is, of course, that all parents should be offered birth and parental preparation courses. I think that is all right, but I also believe that we should have a free choice between private and public. It is not everyone who wants to be with someone who is 20 years older if you are 19 or 20 years old and are pregnant and then gets put together in a group with someone who doesn't have the same interests at all or if there are different religious backgrounds. It's just some of the things I know are going on, and then you're not comfortable. And then Mom here has been paying for private preparation in water for both the two daughters... one is a daughter-in-law, but that's why it's a daughter anyway... because it was something they could see themselves in. So I would like there to be a greater spectrum in relation to what you can choose from. This is a little limited, but we support it in order to move one step further. However, I would like a debate on how we can do it in such a way that it will be a good experience for everyone and how we ensure that we do not do maximum ratings instead of looking at the individual and look at what is needed. And then we have to be much better at making an emergency effort when you come home after you have given birth and have some challenges. Because there I have also seen that it lags tremendously behind and that you cannot get the help that is when you actually get really, really sick under these conditions. So there is a huge debate missing in this area, and that is why I am glad that we are taking it. We say yes to the proposal, but let us see if we could do even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204113715	Thank you, Mrs Liselott Blixt, for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204113724	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank the DF and Mrs Liselott Blixt for their support for the resolution. I was not surprised either, because I have heard the rapporteur come up with these touching examples from the real world and from his daughters and her daughter-in-law. The example of Region Sjælland, from which the rapporteur comes, is precisely a class example of why, among other things. freedom of choice is so essential for us to get to the end of this. I also agree with what the rapporteur says about the debate on the whole post-natal problem of residence, because it is clear that we must have a debate on how best to resolve it. In fact, as the rapporteur has said, this is something that has been set out to set a minimum level of what people should be entitled to after birth, and in fact it should be the case that the professionals who stand out there can look at the individual and say that they can come home after a day, while someone else needs four days. So it is true that this is a problematic thing and that is one thing we should have looked at. I do not really have a question, but I would just like to give a huge amount of support to what the rapporteur has said today, and I hope that together we can put pressure on the government for us to also be called for negotiations. I think we are actually getting a better proposal in the field of food out of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204113831	Thank you. Will the rapporteur reply?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204113836	Thank you very much. And thank you for your comment on my speech. After all, we have been involved when we spoke with the Minister about the food sector and also had to provide some input, but I still think there are some things missing. I mean, for example. not that consideration was given to those who lose a child at birth. There, too, I think we are still missing some things. So let's push to get the whole area buried.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204113859	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204113906	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. There are, of course, many considerations that we share with Mrs Liselott Blixt and the Danish People's Party in this area. But I think it is a key element, and that is precisely the point of extending the option of choice. I just need to know whether the Danish People's Party does not share the concern that, if it does not concern the strengthening of public health services, that is, where there is equal and free access, and there is a need to spread and improve that offer, but instead to start making private free choice arrangements, it may help to create an A and B team, so that the wealthy and those who can afford it can move towards the good offers, where payment is also required by public funds, while the public health service is then left to the more complicated processes, from which it may be more difficult to make a good business.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204113956	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204113959	No, I'm not afraid of that. What we can see here in the Capital Region is that poor working conditions make the midwives go away. So we should have taken care of it in the Capital Region and made sure that conditions were good. When you look at Region Sjælland, it actually works. There it works well in the public sector, where both my daughters have chosen to give birth. So it wasn't about just taking the private stuff, even though Mom said they should try to look at the private stuff. No, they took the public. And they were fully satisfied, and there must be a great praise for it. So I'm not afraid of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114034	Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114039	But what is the argument against having to create a parallel process, that is to say two different systems, ensuring that there are good opportunities that can then be provided by making food clinics or by improving homebirth opportunities? Why not ensure that this is done in the public domain, which ensures that there is equal and free access for all, and that there are no two parallel courses which can both complicate it, but which can also increase the risk of an A and B team actually being created, both for those who are born but also for the employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114112	Here you go, Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114114	So I don't think you can say that in relation to this area, and it's because I've experienced it so close myself. I live in a region that offers both. Both my daughters have chosen the public hospital when they had their children, and everything went well and satisfactorily. I mean, are we gonna overstate it and say that my daughters are on the B team because they chose the public? I'm not gonna ride that wave. I think it's good to have an alternative. There are some who want a homebirth, some want a private place, and others take the public. Let's make sure that happens. I think we could get some of those midwives who actually got a completely different job because they wouldn't be in a public hospital, back on the track.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114151	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the SF rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114212	Thank you. We in the SF very much agree that the birth area has long faced huge challenges, and that is why we also welcome parts of the Left's proposals. There is no doubt that we in the SF have long wanted sufficient time and resources to provide care and support for the feeding. Years of savings in areas where, for example, midwife visits have been reduced prior to birth and the care of the child after birth have left its mark. We have read with great horror the countless tragic stories about the poor conditions of birth. It is therefore also with great pleasure that in the 2022 Finance Act, we have helped to ensure more people a better start to life, where a focus on security and presence before, during and after birth must ensure more rights for the child. We are therefore also looking forward to the forthcoming negotiations on real improvements in this area. However, we will not give priority to increased privatisation, which could result in the erosion of the public food sector. In the SF, we believe that births are a matter for our joint efforts in society, and we are therefore also concerned about the privatisation of the area. We think it is a slippery slope when more and more future parents find themselves forced to buy extra benefits, and it is particularly important that private maternity clinics funded by tax dollars are not used as instruments in search of profit. Instead, that money should be used to ensure a better start to life. We are also afraid that free elections can push recruitment opportunities in the maternity wards, where the already hard-pressed midwives must already run faster than they have ever done before. We will prioritise that there are sufficient resources and good conditions for giving birth both before, during and after birth. We're on it, and the Left kicks in an open door. This active erosion of the public food area contributes to nothing but increased inequality among the feeding; something that we in the SF do not want to contribute to. There must be equal access to good births for everyone. That is why, in the SF, we cannot support this resolution, although we would like to continue the fight with the Left for better rights of birth. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114432	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First of all, I would like to give the floor to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114441	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for the very strong focus that the SF has had in the field of birth and the good cooperation that we have. Could the rapporteur say a little more about his thoughts on how to get a sharp focus on getting rid of the massive inequality that is also in the field of birth, which we have been handed down from the previous government? Could the rapporteur put a little more words on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114507	Astrid Carøe, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114511	Thank you. Perhaps I should have started by saying that I have just jumped in as a last minute victor for our health rapporteur, Kirsten Normann Andersen, so I pass the rose on to her. It is quite clear that in many places in our health system we can see the result of these very massive cuts made by the previous government in the field of health, and we are in the process of correcting that now. This applies, among other things, to: in the field of food. And I think that the stories we are hearing about giving birth, not getting the help they need, which I also think they should be entitled to in their birth, are tragic, and it is hard not to think that the cuts that have been made may have had an impact.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114551	Thank you. Is there another comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114557	Now I also know that the rapporteur is the rapporteur on equality. Could she say anything about what it can do to ensure that children are given a good starting point in life?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114609	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114613	Well, that's a big deal. It has a huge impact on what experience you have in connection with your birth and what help you get right after birth, for example. with breast-feeding or whatever else may be of challenge. And if you are discharged very, very quickly, especially if you are first-born, you do not get that help, and that certainly has an impact both on the birthers and on the children who are born.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114632	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114639	Thank you, and thank you, to the rapporteur from the SF for his speech. I have to say that this is a slightly different rhetoric in this area than there used to be. I have had some very good debates with SF's health rapporteur, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, on this subject, and we have actually been quite agreed on many of these things, and to kick in an open door I would say that it has probably been a door that has been hermetically closed for almost a year. But it is good that something is finally happening in this area, and the SF, as far as I know, backs up on this, among other things. the maternity clinic in Roskilde in Region Sjælland. The SF, as far as I know, sits on the Regional Council and supports that particular action. So maybe there's a mismatch on that point. Then, in relation to the whole discussion about profit talk, I simply have to say that stop now. In other words, I have heard it from several ministers now, and it is like trying to tighten up rhetoric in the day-to-day and social fields, in the area of the elderly and all around. But that is not the case with this proposal. This is about, for example, having local fire-souls who burn so much for this area, and who just want to make an extra effort in this area...
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114744	The rapporteur, please. I'm afraid the time's up. Is there a comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114751	Fortunately, you get another round. I would like to start by saying that the rapporteur can be quite calm: this speech is directly the speech that Kirsten Normann Andersen would have made. As I said, I'm just a substitute, and it's not something I made up myself. I do not understand why the Left thinks it is right for Danish tax dollars to make profits in private companies. Well, I don't understand why the Left doesn't see that that could be a problem. I think it is great if you have private offers that do not generate profits for tax dollars and that are for everyone. But when we suddenly see that couples are forced to buy quite expensive courses because we are afraid that the public cannot deliver a proper enough effort, then we have a huge problem, and then I am afraid that we will have an A and B team created.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114838	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114842	It is just as if the rapporteur comes down to another motion for a resolution. That is simply not what our resolution says. By the way, the Left has, in fact, given priority over four years, and I am sure that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is about 500 million. kr., where the government with support parties has only prioritised 475 million in goose eyes. kr. So the Left has even given more priority to this area, and there is nowhere in my motion for a resolution that we would like to have user charges. We would like to have more free choice and more rights, because we can see that that is what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114912	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114916	What I'm just saying is that the concern we have is whether it generates profits, and it shouldn't, when you do something for tax dollars. Then I just want to say that it is wonderful that the Left has put some money into it, and you have. But there has also been a systematic cut in the health system, and I think we should take a little responsibility for that too. I am very pleased that, firstly, we have stopped those savings and, secondly, we have given priority to the area of finance law. It should have been done much earlier I agree with that, but now we are finally doing something.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114941	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204114946	It's just for the fact that no profit can be made when tax dollars are used. Does this apply everywhere in the public sector? Well, there are a number of places where private companies make profits based on tax dollars. Is it really SF's view that no companies can make money as long as there are tax dollars involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115005	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115008	I think it is problematic if private companies make money from our public tax dollars. It is all our money, and it should not go into the pockets of some private companies. They must go to the welfare of all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115020	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115023	Well, that's completely crazy. I mean, I'm sorry about the expression. But I suppose the rapporteur has also been provided with a computer and an iPhone and everything else, and it is private companies that have made them. Can't they make money because they made a product? Well, you can't have a society. The food we buy in the canteen and the materials they use in the schools are bought by private companies. Can't they make money from it? Then it is a complete statement of everything, and that simply does not add up. I know it's Friday, but boy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115058	And time's up. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115103	Wow, yeah, it's so nice that it's Friday and it's almost weekend. So, listen to me: I do not think that welfare should be made by private people, who then generate a profit, and that is also what I am saying here in the speech, and yes, SF's policy. But it may well be that it happens around, and that's the way it is. However, it should not be the case that we are creating a system that allows us to draw profits from all of our welfare crowns, and I do not really understand why, as a bourgeois party that wants to safeguard the welfare crowns we use, we think that this is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115134	That just led to a question from Mr. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115140	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Would the rapporteur please elaborate on the rhetoric that the bourgeois government has cut massively on health care, a little? The fact is that year after year more and more money has been spent on our health care. So wouldn't the rapporteur like to put some words into it with those massive savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115205	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115210	In the field of health, education and culture, there were 2-percent savings for a long time, and demographic developments have not been followed either. So less money has come to the citizens who are out there because we have got more elderly and more sick.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115222	Per Larsen, is there another question?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115227	The fact is that expenditure on health care has increased more than other public expenditure over time, and we can see an increase of 69 per cent. Here over a number of years. In other words, there has been a lot of money spent on health care, and when you name it as having been cut so massively, I simply do not think it is fair. In other words, there has been a need for productivity in a number of areas, but it is a redistribution. After all, it is a matter of the fact that the money that has then been reduced in one area has been spent on some other healthcare that has benefited citizens. So this is not a massive saving. It is a question of continuing to provide funds for health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115308	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115310	It is true that more funds have been made available for health care. At the same time, we have had more sick citizens and more elderly citizens, and this has meant that there is less money for the individual, and at the same time we have also had this re-priority contribution, which has also meant a lot compared to running faster. At least that's what we hear from out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115326	Thank you to the SF rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Carøe. Even if you are a substitute, you can risk getting a lot of questions in the Chamber here... you have to be prepared for that. We shall then welcome a new radical Member, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Abbas Razvi. I hope I'm saying it right. Is this the first time the rapporteur has been on the floor? Abbas Razvi On this field, it's the first time).
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115351	Thank you for the floor. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution and thank you for a very fruitful debate. In fact, I have been a great listener here, where I have listened to all the arguments and suggestions and so on. And I think I've gotten smarter in this area. Now you all know that I am a kind of substitute for our rapporteur in this area, but I shall try to do it as well as I can. A birth is one of the biggest life events and must be a safe and enjoyable experience. Over the last few years we have heard of great uncertainty, of bad experiences among the birthers and of midwives and doctors who have drawn attention to the pressing conditions in the maternity wards, especially in the capital region. We can and must do better, and with the 2022 Finance Act, the parties to the agreement have set up 100 million. kr. of in 2022, 110 million kr. in 2023 increasing to 150 million. kr. in 2025 to strengthen security and closeness before, during and after birth. We are in the process of negotiating, which is expected to be concluded in February 2022. The 2022 economic agreement between the government and the regions provides for nearly 1.2 billion. kr., of which a sum goes to the area with a focus on differentiated offers to the families based on the recommendations of the Danish Health Authority, e.g. birth preparation in smaller teams. The Radical Left stresses that the Danish Health Authority's recommendations with the Finance Law negotiations will become a reality for the grieving, so that we can ensure that the young families receive an early midwife consultation in week 10 and birth preparation in small teams, less midwife teams for the perpetual, which creates continuity with flexible courses, follow-up visits after birth at home and an assistant midwife, nursing advice and enhanced screening for post-natal reactions in both parents. There is a need for a strengthened maternity offer so that no one is sent home until they are ready for it; but that there should be the right to 2 days hospitalization, Radical Left believes there is no professional evidence. There I believe that by giving the guarantee we are helping to tie up and allocate some funds that we may be able to use elsewhere where funding is needed. The Radical Left insists on the right to an individual assessment, rebirth and need for hospitalization. Radical Left would like to ensure that families feel more secure so that those who want it can stay overnight after birth and settle more with the little new one, just as they should have more contact with the hospital for the first 1-2 weeks after birth. In relation to whether there should be a free choice for the child to choose a public or private clinic, we stress that we must give priority to the public offer. The regions can, if they want, agree on births in the private sector. We also stress that families have the right to choose to give birth at home; so there is a kind of free choice. We do not object to this with the possibility of giving birth in a private clinic, but we must also pay close attention to whether this will lead to accidental incidents, because birth may not take place in places where there are neonatal conditions; but we must also pay attention to the economic area. So we need to be a little more careful about that. But as a starting point, it is the regions that can organise their work as they please. What has happened so far is very different in the various regions. I myself have been in the Capital Region for some years, and there I have seen that there is a certain variation from one region to another. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115856	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115901	Thank you, and welcome to, I would like to say to the rapporteur, and thank you for the good speech. I have a small question or a small comment on the speech. That's precisely because we agree on the vast majority of this. The rapporteur and the Radicals should not be so worried about the small reservations we have about the free choice, because you see that it is working well out there in the real world, among other things. in Region Sjælland, which both the undersigned and DF have also mentioned with good comments. Now, I've been very well with you in the past. The Radicals from the other wing in this Chamber were just pushing some of the ministers to come through with some things that the Ministers may not agree entirely with. I agree that the rapporteur is new and that it may be difficult to answer, but then I would just like to follow on from the call that together we can fight for real improvements and that together we can fight for that, among other things. As many as possible of the initiatives that the Left has taken here today are moving on to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204115956	Thank you. I just want to say that, as the Radical Left, we have a principle that says: who we work with is less important than what we cooperate on. So if there's anything where we can find some common surfaces around the co-operation, we'll be ready for it. I'll pass it on, because it's my last day today. It's the 6th, I'm done with my vicariat, but I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204120028	Thank you for that and the rapporteur has just to blow off. Then we would also like to thank you for this time in the Folketing. And once it has just been infected, we must welcome the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204120048	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the Left and the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this issue on what we also believe in the Enhedslisten is a key welfare area. That is why our main demands in the financial law negotiations here in December on the 2022 Finance Act have also been on this issue. I would also like to say that we share the disappointment or irritation that the government itself did not give priority to this in its own financial legislation or had set aside funds for the past, and this is also an irritation to previous governments. However, we welcome the fact that we have now finally begun negotiations on the issue of the 100 million. kr. increasing to 150 million. DKK 475 million in total. kr. over the next four years and then as permanent means, which managed to be put off in the budget law of 2022. We also believe, and we have said this publicly in many contexts, that there must be rights of birth. We presented ourselves with a proposal in the spring of 2021, almost a year ago, under the title "Rights for the child to enter the Health Act." That is how far we agree with the proposers. We also want better continuity for the couples with the same midwives, i.e. for example. like what we know as known midwife scheme. However, we do not believe that the solution to our welfare tasks is to make private food clinics where the owners can profit from operating our common welfare, but in particular, and it is also important to understand when we are talking about the birth area, which is so pressured today, because it could also mean a considerable inequality for the feeding and even greater pressure on working conditions and conditions for those who are still away working in the public hospitals. Private clinics where an owner should be able to see a possible surplus will in practice be for the relatively easy and uncomplicated births and pregnancy cycles. It will not be for the overweight woman, for the vulnerable, for the couple who need a little extra scans, or where there might be talk of abuse or malpractice. This will mean a division of food into an A- and B-team, and the complicated births will remain in the hospitals. Here there will be a great risk that conditions will gradually be eroded for that group of birthers, because money will also have to be taken over to the private maternity clinics. And the employees will be faced with even more complicated processes and with even more time to see the individual giving birth and their partners. This is not at all the way that Enhedslisten wants to go in relation to a future birth area. We can see and listen to employees telling us about good working conditions in the one private maternity clinic that exists today, which is financed by public funds from the region, and where, of course, money does not come out of the pockets of the couples either. These are the working conditions and conditions that we also want to create in the public sector. That is why increased standards, along with the rights of those who give birth, are our main focus in the negotiations that are currently taking place with the Finance Parties. It is not our top priority to spend the bag of money, which we do not think is sufficient, but that is what it could be in this Finance Act to make beds so that everyone can be in hospital for two days after the birth. We have had it in our game and can understand the security it will provide for couples, especially first-time feeding, but if it is the only right we are aiming for, all the money is spent up. Instead, we would rather secure better bets both before, during and after births. Today's picture is different from just a few years ago. We need to give priority to getting more hands into the maternity wards and ensuring better standards, among other things. of midwives. We recently held a hearing here in December. It became quite clear from the large panel of experts, actors and citizens' proposers that the two days are not the top priority. Instead, it is known the midwife scheme. It is tranquillity and security with the possibility of staying if you have the need or being able to change it to an opportunity to have home visits. This is the need to ensure that vulnerable women are offered a good offer. And that is also the possibility of having a screening for postpartum effects. It is to get more done for those couples where parents have special postpartum reactions and thus, yes, screenings. It's also about C-section rehabilitation, about the need to lift this area, to prioritize the rights of women giving birth and their partners both before, during and after birth. So thank you for having tabled the motion for a resolution and for having raised the debate, but we cannot vote in favour of the proposal, especially not because it is a privatisation of our common health care system, but also because we are currently in negotiations with the Finance Law Parties to ensure precisely a boost in the field of birth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204120533	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are just a few brief comments. Here you go, Mrs. Camilla Fabricius from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204120539	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten and the rapporteur for being extremely precise in saying that we must have raised public welfare here too. I would like to tell the rapporteur a story. I was called yesterday because my hinterland and my network knew that we were going to the Chamber today and that we are in negotiations. I was told a story about a young girl with a different ethnic background of 23 years who has a child of 5 years and a child of 3 years and who has now been excluded from her community because she has become pregnant outside of marriage. She's got her hand off. She is now in a situation where there is no one to help her give birth. No one can go with her, and no one can take care of her children. To me, it's one of those places where there's a massive inequality. Could the rapporteur try to say a little about what he thinks about the extent of health inequalities when we talk about the field of birth?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204120639	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204120640	Thank you. This is, of course, a very relevant and very precise example of what happens when we have a health service and a grief that is pressured on resources, because it often means that those who give birth, who are most in need of help and who need a special effort and a more, what it says, hand-held action, are those who are let down because there are no resources for it. Instead, there may be a risk of focusing on the easier and more uncomplicated processes. And that is precisely what will increase inequalities in health, that is to say, if we lack resources, we risk becoming the weakest, the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable, who will pay the price. That is why it is so crucial to ensure that, when we give a boost, it becomes a boost to the wider area, so that we ensure that there is a more individually oriented effort in relation to the individual team that there will be greater freedom of choice, but that it stays within the public area, because we then just avoid dividing the birthers into an A and B team and we avoid the social inequality in health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204120741	Thank you. Remember to press the button if you want the word in the second round. Here you go, Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204120746	I would just like to thank the rapporteur for his very strong point. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204120755	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204120804	Well, thank you. That is also why I am pleased that we are now jointly focusing on the fact that we will finally have a boost to the area. It is clear that this will be the first step and that it will be an effort that we will have to make together in the future. But the crucial thing is that it will be a boost that will benefit everyone and that we will also help to reduce inequalities in health. So it's just a receipt for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204120815	Thank you. The next person who has asked for the floor for a brief comment is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204120820	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and subsequent remarks. The Enhedslisten and the Left just agree well along the way in this area. I still do not quite understand why we continue to have problems with the fact that the money should not keep up, because that is a little the premise of our proposal. That is also why we in the Left have chosen to give priority to 500 million. kr. over 4 years. It is precisely because we are not talking about inequality in health, which the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten is now suddenly beginning to talk about. It has nothing to do with this. The proposal we are making is that we should have the opportunity to choose a private midwifeial maternity clinic. Then I sit and look at the citizens' proposal that was dealt with in the Chamber last year and which Enhedslisten voted in favour of, and has been mentioned exactly the same thing. That is why I am a little surprised that today we are saying that we cannot vote in favour of the Left's proposal, but that we could vote in favour of it, because the same proposal was in the form of a citizen's proposal which came from the citizens in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204120919	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204120920	First of all, I would like to endorse the proposal put forward by the Left, because there are many good elements in what has been taken out of the six initiatives. The five of them are, in fact, some with which we are in complete agreement. The only catch that is is precisely the question of the establishment of private food clinics. We also had that debate with the proposers of the citizens' proposal, but it is clear that the citizens' proposal was precisely an opportunity to raise this whole debate and to help put pressure on us so that we could have the debate and take practical action on it. The problem of the private maternity clinics is primarily for me that I find it difficult to see why it should be done. Why not just ensure that the free choice is there within the public system? Because as soon as private food clinics are established, it will be in order to make a business of it as well, and therefore it will be the uncomplicated processes left to the private sector. That's what we're looking at in private hospitals. It is primarily knee, back, hip and obesity operations that are treated there, while the more complicated processes are left to the public health service.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121029	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121031	It's just that we're all in on what Enhedslisten means. The Enhedslisten says all the right things, and we agree very much along the way, but when you vote in favour of a citizen's proposal, you vote in favour of the whole citizen's proposal, and that is what has been mentioned here. There are these free-standing midwife-led maternity clinics mentioned, just as they are in our proposal, which is why I do not quite buy the premise that you can vote in favour of a citizen's proposal, but that you cannot vote in favour of the Left, because it is precisely here. Then the rapporteur also mentions that it is difficult to see the meaning of it. I do not have that, and I have no difficulty in seeing that the citizens are asking for a real free choice in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121109	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121110	However, there could also be a genuine free choice within the public sector and ensure that there were sufficient choices within the public sector. I am in favour of the citizens' proposal that was put forward because it was just a part of raising this agenda. If the citizens' proposal had not been put forward and if we had not had the proposal for adoption in connection with the citizens' proposal, then I am not sure that we would have been standing where we are today, in other words, where we also had the opportunity in the financial law negotiations to push through funds to ensure a real boost. That is why I think it is such a rather weird process issue. Because if you look at the political aspect in concrete terms, that is what has helped to raise this agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121143	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, sir. Per Larsen there are 5 minutes for you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121204	Thank you for that, President. I'll try to stay within the time frame. Thank you very much to the Left for putting this issue on the agenda. Of course, we agree with the proposers that we have some very major challenges in the field of birth. After all, we see how birthing is moved from one maternity ward to the other in the middle of the night with contractions due to lack of capacity. We also agree with the proposers that we should improve quality, both during pregnancy and during childbirth itself, and ensure that the whole process is professional, safe and secure. Needless to say, adequate help must also be provided after birth, so that breast-feeding gets under way and the family continues to experience security with easy access to the maternity ward and the municipal healthcare provider. However, we do not agree that the solution is to give all families a number of rights which can be quite difficult to fulfil. Because the truth is that we already lack capacity. The midwife association has also pointed out that 244 midwives are missing in the country's maternity wards to ensure good and safe delivery courses for the families. The Conservative People's Party has therefore proposed to follow the proposals of the Mothers' Association and to ensure that an extra midwife is recruited per year. 250 birthing. It is estimated that there are between 350 and 450 midwives who are currently not using their authorisation. So it would be possible to bring more staff into the wards. But of course this requires making it more attractive with an active effort to improve the working environment and reduce the stress on the departments, so that the midwives can again see themselves working in a maternity ward. Our proposal to hire 244 more midwives costs approx. 122 million kr. to which we have assigned funding in our Finance Bill for 2022. We believe, as I said, that there is a great need to ensure the families and the feeding proper and safe delivery courses, but we believe that this is about providing more capacity rather than offering more uniform rights which may not be met. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121436	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech to Mr Seligman. Per Larsen. There are no brief comments. We're gonna have a little booze before mr. Lars Boje Mathisen will be on the podium. He's almost up here. Here's to the New Citizen's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121453	Thank you. After all, it has just become Friday afternoon, but it is an exciting debate about whether tax dollars can be used in private and whether private individuals must provide public welfare and so on. I understand from the SF's rapporteur that this cannot be done, and that puts some restrictions on it. At any rate, I know that the care sector is running around in cars to reach its citizens, and they are produced by private people and private companies. So the fact that public tax dollars are not to be used to give private companies something that can help public welfare, I simply do not understand. Yeah, you're gonna have to be a socialist to understand the logic of it. But I would very, very much not want the state to produce cars; there we have some examples from the former East where things did not go very well. In relation to this proposal, we are very much in agreement with the Left far along the way. I think that one of the areas where there is just a little bit is the right to the two days. I understand why they want it, but there is also something about where the divide lies. Well, there has to be a professional distinction out there by the professional staff you have on the spot who says: Well, listen, there's no reason you're here anymore. And then you can have a patient who says, yes, but I have the right to be here, so I'll be allowed to be here. So you have to be careful with these very, very rigid rules out there. And then, of course, you can challenge it and say that you do not think that there will be any birthing, there will be longer time in the hospital than necessary, and I do not think that there will be in general either. Basically, however, we agree that it is good that there is private practice and we agree that there is free choice. Well, we can look at the school area, we can look at the care area in relation to the elderly, and we can look at the children's area and where are the longest waiting lists? It's in private. They are the ones who have the flexibility and are able to provide good service. And that's what people are looking for. Instead of trying to monitor and say that we must have nothing in private and everything else, then the public should look at what they are doing right and what they are doing good. After all, there is a reason why citizens are looking there. So you should learn from it instead. So basically, we are positive about the vast majority of elements. And then there's that tiny little thing, but I don't think we can agree on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121714	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First of all, I would like to give the floor to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121721	Thank you. And thanks to the rapporteur for finding it interesting to have a good maternity discussion. I would like to ask the rapporteur a bit of the same thing as I have asked some of the other rapporteurs, namely whether the massive inequality we are seeing in society right now, and especially in the field of birth, one can see that people with some kind of vulnerability have difficulty in getting through and asking for help. So I would like to ask whether the rapporteur does not recognise the need for a strong boost and therefore also for the public crowns which the Finance Act has also allocated to the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121800	There are two elements to it. If you look at the LUP studies that have been carried out in the area, you can see that about 85%. is very pleased with the birth experience they have had. So before we talk down the whole field of birth, you might say that by far the majority of birthers are actually satisfied with the experience they have. And then the rapporteur mentioned an example of inequality. It was, as far as I remember, about a lady who had given birth and hadn't had anyone to look after herself and the child. That is where I believe that the private sector in particular has much greater flexibility in adapting their services. I am a huge supporter of decentralisation; I am a huge supporter of putting some competences to the individual maternity departments so that they can handle and look at the people they are dealing with, so that the staff are not bound by any rigid rules and have to say: "Well, I can't actually offer any more, I'm facing a person who needs something more, but in relation to that box she doesn't fit in, so I can't make a professional assessment that makes me actually able to lift that job. That's why I'm a huge fan of moving it out, decentralizing it, and putting it out of the way. And then we have to be willing to let it out of here a little more. So I'm a huge supporter of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121904	Camilla Fabricius, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121906	In other words, our Prime Minister has also been quite clear in looking at the fact that we should generally look at breaking down bureaucracy, so we are quite in favour of that. But I actually asked the rapporteur whether the rapporteur would not agree with me that there is a need for a significant boost, in other words more welfare crowns for the birth area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204121927	Not necessarily, because it depends on how they are used. If we look at the regions and look at the money that has been spent, we can see that in the last ten years there have been far more cold hands, i.e. administrators sitting out in the regions. So if you just add more money to hire more people for that task, no, then I'm not in favour of just increasing the budget. That's what I think has gone wrong many times. You have looked at welfare and said that you can increase the budget and then you have increased the number of people out there. But what kind of tasks are they doing? Well, what kind of assignments do the midwives solve today that they didn't solve before? Do they have any more assignments? There are fewer midwives per year. single birth. So it's a little more detailed than just looking at whether you just have to give more money to the world's largest public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204122014	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204122018	Thank you. It's actually just mostly in relation to the thing about making money on welfare. In other words, if we now had a concern about what taxpayers' money was spent on, would it not be more reasonable to say that the funds that might be available should be spent on the employees, that is to say, on those who work there terms and efforts, that is, on the warm hands and on the citizens who have to take advantage of welfare, so they are the ones who spend the resources on, rather than on the one who owns a welfare business?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204122052	Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204122053	No. Well, I'm fully focused on what it is for a performance that is being delivered. If it's a good one, then I'm not so interested in the way out, decentralizedly, you know. In the same way, of course, is not interested in how many lessons the individual teacher teaches out at the individual primary school I actually think that a headmaster should have much greater opportunity to decide those things. So I don't care if the cat's black or white as long as it catches mice. There are just a large number of examples of some private things that some private providers actually provide here. I know you're against private people making money doing a kindergarten, but those kindergartens are really popular. There are a lot of people who want their children in those kindergartens. And at some point the Enhedslisten must also wonder how it can be that there is a long wait for precisely those kindergartens. What are they doing right? What is it they do well that parents want their children in those kindergarten? And is it a problem that parents want their children in such a kindergarten? I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204122155	Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204122156	Then I'll just have to understand, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen right. Because if it's just about the service being good enough, then that means that sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen as a taxpayer wouldn't care? If there is now a well-functioning kindergarten, it may spend some money also on something gluttony and a lot of consultants and all sorts of other things, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen usually opposes it, because it doesn't matter that the money goes to it just the school works. It would be the same in relation to the private sector, namely that it does not matter if the school is good, that some money goes out of the system. Will it be okay, then, that in the public sector you just spend money on gluttony, because as long as it works, it doesn't really matter what it costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204122232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204122233	So what we are concerned with here is that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. If you look at the large public services, it may be care for the elderly or school, then we think that an amount should be paid per year. student to the individual schools. How they then choose to spend the money best is up to them. I am confident that if the parents who use that school think that the money is being used incorrectly, then they have a school board to go to, which today is actually often just such a pseudo board. I would like parents to be given much more opportunity to say that they are not actually satisfied with what is happening and that parents start taking ownership of the place where their child goes to school and say that they are not satisfied with the way the money is spent. Right now, you just spend the money. So no, I am a huge supporter of decentralisation and that the money follows the individual out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204122318	Then I would like to thank Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Would you like to drink off? Lars Boje Mathisen Yes). That's good. I do not see any other rapporteurs in the Chamber immediately, and that is why we should welcome the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204122333	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs and the Minister for their almost voluntary presence in the Chamber today to discuss the rights of the birthers and the right to more free elections. There have been some very good speeches and questions along the way, and I would like to thank you very much for that. If I am going to pick everything up like this, the most important thing to say is that we have now finally been given the light on the problematic conditions in the maternity wards, and we have also witnessed it and discussed it for a long time now. Although, of course, I am sorry that I do not have a majority in favour of my motion for a resolution, I am at least pleased that DF and New Citizens support it. Furthermore, I also agree with both the rapporteur from the DF and the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party that we must be careful that what is at issue here is not too rich in the right to remain in a maternity hotel or a maternity ward two days after the birth. For although birth is a happy moment for many newly baked parents, it is far from being the case for all families today. There are simply too many who leave the maternity wards with scars on their souls that can last their whole lives. It then happens on one of the days that should have been one of the greatest for the family. We have all read the innumerable and heartbreaking stories of stuffed births and the violent births. At the same time, we hear about poor and stressful working conditions for midwives. These are stories we have heard too many of, of course. That is why it should not be a secret that, as an opposition politician, I would like to see action taken earlier on the part of the government. I haven't been alone in taking that fight, luckily. Almost a year ago, we were discussing two proposals in this Chamber on the rights of the birther. One was from the SF and was about a guarantee of 2 days' stay in the maternity ward after birth. The second was Enhedslisten's proposal to convene negotiations on birthrights. Let me just say what I did almost a year ago: in the Left we fully agree with the intentions behind the two proposals. We may disagree politically on the way, but we agree on the objective, and that in itself has been a clear signal that we have sent to the government. The same was true, moreover, when we voted in favour of the citizens' proposal about a month and a half later to introduce more birthrights. That was another clear signal, and this time it even came from the citizens out in the real world. It was a citizens' proposal which, moreover, has many features in common with the proposal made last year by the Left, which today is the country as a resolution in this Chamber. Despite pressure from both the government's support parties, from the Left, from the other bourgeois parties, from the citizens, from the midwives and, indeed, from a whole health care provider out there, we are still waiting for the negotiations on the major health area, namely health reform. It has been so postponed a few times and, most recently, we were told that it should come in the autumn. Now we are standing here in 2022 and still have heard nothing about the fact that there should be a health reform on the stairs. So there is no longer any excuse for the non-starting of these negotiations. Now I understand that we have finally begun to meet and negotiate with the supporting parties on the food sector. It's about time. We in the Left would very much like to contribute our initiatives. Then finally call in the parties of the Folketing more widely. In fact, I think there would be a better result from that. It is deeply worrying that, despite several resolutions and consultations, we have still not succeeded in improving the conditions for the birthers and their families. More free choice and more birthrights must be included and should help create a good and secure experience for the birthers and employees in the country's maternity wards. In our motion for a resolution, we present seven proposals in which I would just like to highlight the two legs on which they are walking. Firstly, we in the Left believe that the birthers and their families should have more rights than they do today. That is why we have among other things. suggested that one should have the same responsible midwife throughout the process in order to create a better connection, both before, during and after birth. Secondly, we also propose to give a safe start to parenthood with a home visit by the midwife or healthcare professional that parents know. Becoming parents of a newborn child can be a violent and turbulent experience. Often this will naturally lead to doubts and questions that parents need to be able to get answers to in a secure environment with professionals present. That is why we also believe that a right to two days' stay should be introduced in the hospital after birth, as well as maternity and parental preparation in smaller groups, and that both mother and father should also be offered birth screening in relation to post-natal reactions. It is crucial that parents feel heard and seen before and after birth. Birth reactions are difficult to deal with for the parent who is affected, but also for the relatives, the family members. Therefore, they must be handled immediately, regardless of which parent it occurs with. In the municipality where I live, Odense, we have introduced a similar offer with great success. Indeed, we have been able to intercept many parents who are in an initial phase of postpartum depression. It's already actually before the baby comes into the world. It is, of course, an effort that we are very happy and proud of, and it also helps to give the newborn a good start to life and support the children in their later development through childhood. The second leg of our proposal is that greater security must be combined with more free choice for the birthers and their families. Because just as different as we humans are, just as different is a birth. I think those of us who are parents can sign that. Some pregnant women want to opt for a private alternative to the public sector, but unfortunately it is far from all over the country that babies are free to choose between public and private clinics. At Roskilde Federal Clinic, which we have mentioned several times in this Chamber today, they have the opportunity to choose a private and more personal birth course where the money follows the patient. In other parts of the country there is no such offer at all, and that is too bad, because all births are individual. It is therefore also obvious that the individual family must have the freedom to choose how it wants to bring its child to the world, and there should also be free choice throughout the country. With the resolution, we want to strengthen the free choice of those who are born. It is about putting the birthers at the centre and building up the birth process about the needs of the individual family rather than the system. It is really a pity that the government has postponed these negotiations in the field of birth for so long, despite massive pressure, among other things. From in here. The situation is serious both from a health and family perspective, because the longer we let go, the more newly baked parents and newborns risk serious failures, which may potentially have long-lasting health and well-being consequences for those affected. That is why I also hope that a majority in the Folketing can stand together to press the government to convene some negotiations with all the parties of the Folketing. We have waited a long time and the proposals are already on the table. They have been doing so for a long time. Let us give something more really free choice and more rights to the birthers now. And if the Left is not invited, then the Minister is welcome to use the Left's initiative in the field of birth. I can also sense that the Minister has already used several of my terms, namely, among other things. to ensure orderly conditions both before, during and after birth. After all, it is gratifying that the Minister for Health listens to the Left's input and takes on the Left's initiative. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204123107	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments. We're gonna have to get the booze off. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204123129	The debate is open. The first to be welcomed is the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204123159	Thank you. Let me begin by expressing my support for the motion for a resolution. The government is looking very seriously at the current European energy crisis. We are following closely developments in energy prices and we have acted on it. The objective is clear: right now we must take care of those who have been hit hardest. The government has therefore proposed a tax-free heat check for the Danes with warming methods that are hardest hit by high energy prices and have little income. At the same time, we must ensure that Denmark is well prepared for energy crises in the future. I would like to emphasise that the green transition is an essential part of the solution to rising energy prices. As a result, rising prices must not slow down the green transition, but rather show the need to accelerate the green transition across Europe. The district heating companies, for example, are: long in the green transition, and many of the companies have several heat sources. It protects against high energy prices, and we must move on that way. We want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Denmark by 70%. by 2030 compared to 1990, and we will be climate neutral by 2050 at the latest. These are ambitious objectives which, fortunately, have very broad support in the Folketing. The government has a strong focus on producing sufficient amounts of green power so that we can handle the climate challenge with green power in the sockets. In order to achieve the climate targets, an ambitious expansion of renewable energy is necessary. The Government and the Folketing have already taken a large number of decisions. And in the years leading up to 2030 and beyond, Denmark looks into a quite massive sea wind expansion. With the agreement for the 2022 Finance Act, we decided on a further 2 GW winds by 2030 at the latest. It is well to note on top of the 5 GW sea winds we decided with the Climate Agreement for Energy and Industry etc. 2020°, as well as the 2.5 GW from previous agreements, including offshore winds from Thor and Hesselø. Furthermore, we agreed with the 2022 Finance Act that, in view of the growing need for ptx in the context of the upcoming energy and supply project, the government will present analyses to form the basis for a possible decision on an extra 1 GW wind. Overall, we look into a barely quadrupling of the current total installed offshore wind turbine capacity in Denmark up to 2030. But it won't stop by 2030. With the Climate Agreement for Energy and Industry etc. We decided with the Danish Parliament's parties, among other things. establishing the world's first energy islands in the Baltic Sea and the North Sea respectively. The North Sea energy island shall have a capacity of 3 GW during the first offshore wind phase and space for at least 10 GW in the long term. The second energy island is established at Bornholm and must have a capacity of 2 GW. We have thus decided to create two historical energy islands that can supply electricity to the equivalent of 12 million Danish and European households. With the agreement on the 2022 Finance Act, we further accelerated the expansion of offshore winds in relation to the North Sea energy island, and together with the parties to the agreements, we agreed to establish the 10 GW with 2040 as a target as soon as possible and agreed to recommend it to the conciliation circle. We also set new ambitions for the expansion of wind and solar energy on land in the Finance Act 2022. We decided that as part of the forthcoming energy and supply initiative, the government will present a tool catalogue to strengthen the expansion of solar and wind energy on land. It is a development work that we have started in cooperation with KL. Many of the main elements included in the resolution that we are discussing today have either already been agreed with the 2020 Climate Agreement, the Green Partial Agreement to the 2022 Finance Act, or are planned to be part of the forthcoming energy and supply initiative. The Government has submitted in the "Køreplan for a green Denmark" in connection with the "Klimaprogram 2021" that by 2022 it will present a proposal for a green energy and supply sector based on renewable energy. We will carry out a very ambitious and comprehensive green transition, and it is crucial that we do so in a sensible way. In 2022, the government will present an energy and supply initiative to set the direction for both achieving the climate objectives and ensuring the Danes a stable and robust energy supply in the future. We support the intention of the motion for a resolution but reject it because the resolution simply kicks in an open door. With the Climate Act, we have committed ourselves to achieving Denmark's climate goals in a way that is cost-effective and that takes into account both the long-term green transition and the Danish competitive power. And with the Climate Act, we also propose that Denmark make a green transition that takes into account both the cohesion and the social balance. The motion for a resolution does not, in my opinion, contribute any new initiatives in relation to measures already planned or adopted. The government is concerned with continuing the expansion of renewable energy, and we need to use energy efficiently and flexibly. This will make us more robust with regard to possible future energy crises. It is a work that is in full swing and we welcome the commitment of the parliamentary parties, including the Conservatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204123810	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204123817	Thank you, Minister, for your speech and thank you for your statement on the urgency of developing renewable energy. It's fine that there's a target for it, and now it's said that we've added 2 GW extra. There are 5 GW, and there are also 2 GW with e.g.. Thor and Hesselø. The challenge is, of course, that we have a number of objectives, and there are also many objectives in the climate programme, but it is a little about what the plan is for, how it should be done and how it should be carried out. And here I would like to ask the Minister: 1) how quickly will it be on water, because it often takes 7 years, and 2) how quickly will it go on land, and how will it be dealt with by local government?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204123904	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204123905	I think that part of the water I explained quite thoroughly in my speech here, so it might be covered. However, in relation to that on land, we are already covered by conciliation, including with the rapporteur's party, but the question is of course whether, in the spring, when we are negotiating energy and supply strategy, we should look at it without prejudice again. There are various things that we may have decided in the past and that we may be able to look at with new eyes, all the time that wind on land is a very, very cheap way of making green energy. We also face some challenges in terms of, for example: were not the bids we had hoped there would be in technology-neutral tenders here last year. Of course, we need to address these issues, and I interpret the rapporteur's question as an open position that we will be able to discuss a large number of those issues in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124009	Thank you. Is there a follow-up brief remark from Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll? I would like to ask you to remember to press when you wish to speak, because then it will be easier to manage from up here. Here you go, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, for another brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124022	Thank you. Now you might ask if the water is so clear, but then I can ask a little more clearly: how much energy comes from water by 2030, and how do you make sure that it is possible? For example: Hisselø still stands and flies, and we don't know what's going on there. As far as country is concerned, in order to have a plan, we must have the infrastructure, and what will our energy grid be like? There is an investment deficit and there is uncertainty about prices, so can you just sit and wait? Once in the spring, three years have passed since we had a climate choice. Is that fast enough? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124100	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124101	Well, I hardly know where to start. I mean, it's been three years since the climate elections. To put it mildly, it is not because we have been sitting on our hands. I just listed all the gigawatts we're going to expand with. We are going to quadruple the current capacity by 2030. After 2030 there will be 10 GW on energy island. I have just taken the lead in revisiting some of the agreements that the rapporteur himself has made and is aiming for, in relation to winds of land, and there is also solar wind. We're quite well on our way, and there's more coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124139	Thank you, Minister. Then there are no more brief comments. Then we have to start with the rapporteur's series and the first rapporteur is Mrs Anne Paulin from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go - the rapporteur has 5 minutes available.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124157	Thank you. And thank you to Conservatives for giving us the opportunity to discuss renewable energy and the necessity of it here in Parliament today. It is no secret that in the future we need very much renewable energy. Our power needs to be green, our cars need to run on electricity, and we need to turn power into green fuels. Our future is largely electrified, and that electricity must of course be green. Although I agree that Denmark must have a high level of security of supply and that renewable energy is essential for the green transition, on behalf of the Social Democrats, I nevertheless reject the resolution. I will, firstly, because we have already taken a large number of decisions to strengthen the development of renewable energy in Denmark. The Minister has already mentioned many of them, among others. our investments in a significant expansion of our offshore wind turbine capacity. Secondly, we have created an electrification strategy in which we have committed ourselves to eight pointers, including a cost-effective green transition and a high level of security of supply. In addition, the government will present an energy and supply initiative later this year which concerns both how we achieve our climate targets and how we ensure a stable energy supply with a high security of supply. Thirdly, I agree that there are some very major challenges right now in relation to the very rising energy prices. This is important for a great many people who, especially because of the high gas prices, are getting some big bills these days. That's not an argument against green conversion. That's an argument for more green conversion. In the future, our power is 100%. green, and our heat must be fossil-free. Specifically, in relation to energy prices, as the rapporteur from the Conservatives also knows, we are engaged in negotiations on further measures to supplement the warming package launched by the government last year. How we ensure that our energy system is ready for the future must be an important focus for us in the Folketing. I hear the Minister say that this is already the case and that this resolution simply kicks in an open door. So we do not support the specific motion for a resolution, but we would like to see us, for example. I am sure that we will be able to meet on a great many of the perspectives contained in the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124417	Thank you, Mrs Paulin, for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124424	Thanks for the speech. The thing about kicking in an open door I think is such a funny expression to use. We don't know what's coming. We say that something will come later in 2020, we do not know what. And we have also tried to ask before the summer break whether we should not hold a strategic planning meeting and get a map of what technologies we have, where we can put in, where the industry is ready, and we have also discussed power-to-x this morning. Why are we waiting so long? We have to see things in a whole, and it is not only how many wind turbines there must be at sea, but it is also something about looking at things in a whole, including our entire energy grid and price structure. And we must also say that we are waiting for it. There's no VE provider offering it. So I would just like to ask, what is this open door? I think we have plenty of problems here to address. And what kind of door do you expect all of a sudden to solve everything later in 2022?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124517	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124519	A lot of issues are being addressed, and really, really many agreements have been made over the last 21⁄2 years, and of course that will continue to be the case. When I talk about an open door, it is because it has been repeated many times that in the spring of the first quarter we will hopefully again discuss the energy and utilities area with the parties of the Danish Parliament. The rapporteur knows that too, and, in the context of the financial bill debate here shortly before Christmas, a text was also adopted in which a majority of the parties stressed the need for us to look at renewable energy in the new year and look at it in terms of achieving our climate objectives and the other objectives, which of course are also with our energy planning.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124606	Katarina Ammitzbøll, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124608	Thank you. However, if we look at the level of planning, how will the rapporteur and the governing party now manage to achieve a much more efficient and proper development of renewable energy on land? Now it is the case that municipalities can have a right of veto, but it is very by chance what is being set up and where, and we will not be using our roofs and other solar capacity either. How do you think that? Should it not be a little bit more of a planning structure which also ensures that the municipalities that hold in favour continue to be there and that others cannot just say no? Shouldn't it be planned? Or should you just go and wait for it to happen by itself, because we have some goals for some energy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124650	Thank you. Anne Paulin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124651	There I think it was a very good financial law agreement that was made, and it also says in black and white that some of what is being set in motion is that this tool catalogue should be drawn up, by the way, in cooperation with the National Association of Municipalities, which has also expressed the wish to help carry out this task of ensuring a good expansion of renewable energy. A tool catalogue must be created which we can also use as a basis for further discussions between the parties. So I don't think it's right that there aren't lots of things going on. In fact, I think everything speaks for the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124724	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so I would ask the rapporteur to speak out. Thank you. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Left. Welcome to sir. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204124741	Thank you for the floor. In recent times, we have seen prices of natural gas and electricity rising quite substantially, and many explanations have been given: there has been still wind, there has been a low rainfall, Russia has closed a little to the gas, European gas stocks have been emptied for historical reasons, because some gas was needed in previous winters, and then the EU's CO2 is so many things that have caused prices to increase as we have seen. All arrows actually point in the direction that energy has become a short supply, and the market now seems such that when something is a short supply, the price increases. What is a little too bad in this context is that in the market we are looking into, there is probably an expectation that the shortage, that is, that supply and demand do not affect each other, is more persistent than we had initially thought. Then it is the case that more and more people want their homes to be warmed up with electric heat pumps, there are also happily more people who want to drive electric cars and hybrid cars, and also the industry must electrify more and more of their production in the future. This means that the demand for power goes one way, and it's up. So consumers are in a situation where this is not something they have come a long way with. This is something we are doing, and when the price increases are there, it presents some challenges, including the price fluctuations we see. So when we are in the situation that not so many people have invested green yet, then it is important that the green transition takes place in a market where you can look into the fact that prices are not too strong, because it is a relatively large investment, whether you are a household or you are a business. The motivation for green conversion by consumers and companies is limited by the high prices, and of course it is important to look into whether it is worthwhile now, and in the current situation, where we have seen the high prices, there are also people who say: now you made us switch to a heat pump, and yet our price is rising quite dramatically. We in the Left do not believe that the situation is currently sustainable, because if it is the case that we have to make an investment, whether it be a household or a business, then there must be both money for the investment and the prospect of running cheaply. Otherwise, you will not invest in the green transition. So we are faced with the situation that, in view of rising energy prices, the green transition has created a new situation or a dilemma for the green transition. Right now, we are negotiating and giving pools to pay the bill in such a way also for some of those who use natural gas, which is a fossil fuel, and it is on the longer track at least not a way for the green conversion to support fossil energy. So what's important to us is that we go somewhere else and sort of move us somewhere else. Left wants households and businesses to switch to power and renewable energy. It must pay to switch from fossil fuel to renewable energy, and consumers and businesses must see that there is an economic benefit to it, and, as we do not want to put any more taxes on it, the possibility of making green energy cheaper is there. We are in a situation where we need to create more green energy. So we need to continue the conversion of renewable energy production, but the development and expansion of renewable energy has unfortunately stalled somewhat. For example: a project for Omø South Havmøllepark has been abandoned by the government, a project that should otherwise have supplied green power to 350,000 households in 2024. Here there was a bird protection area where one has to ask: who is it, and what is the most important situation? So here it was the protection of birds that won. The technology-neutral tender, as the Minister said, was given even before the tender was tendered. Why not? Could it be the uncertainty surrounding the network tariffs that has been involved? So we are concerned that there are simply too many people in planhieraki who have the right of veto in the green transition, and that is true on land, but that is also true at sea. Have we set a real direction there? So we want to boost the renewable energy expansion and we can therefore vote in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204125257	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Here, too, there is a brief comment. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204125304	Thank you for a good speech to the rapporteur. I think that the rapporteur is setting out some very important points that we need to pay attention to, namely the citizens. After all, if we do not have the support of the citizens, we will not be able to achieve the green transition. As the rapporteur rightly said, it has suddenly become, really, really expensive to be a Dane in relation to choosing the green solution. I think that this may be more urgent, as is the case with our companies and the hierarchy of plans. The question to the rapporteur is: does the rapporteur, also because of his background as mayor, see some possibilities in terms of how we can unblock the hierarchy of plans, but also in terms of how we can secure the support of citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204125354	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204125355	Thank you. My approach is that we are where we have to ask ourselves whether the hierarchy we have established in a completely different time can solve the task we now have around the green transition. I think we have to say that the green transition is probably our challenge number one. That is why I think that, in relation to some of those who currently have a right of veto, we need to have a system that is capable of dealing with the fact that we have a dialogue on what we are protecting nature, among other things. birds, etc., and what it is like to protect people, so that we have it weighed against each other. Today, the system seems to be such that some people actually have a right of veto and, at least, the possibility of dragging the processes into delay. That is why my appeal is that we should have a look at the system within which we are planning. I think the government must take note of this and put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204125458	Thank you. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer from the Left. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the DF, and that is Mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204125526	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you for the motion for a resolution. When you look down on it so quickly, I guess no one can disagree that things can go a little faster, that can happen a little more, and that we need to be green. When you look at it, it's about cheaper electricity prices; that the Danes get more money available; security of supply needs to be strengthened; and the green transition needs to be accelerated. We think that's good. We must also say that this is actually what the whole parliament is agreed on, that is to say that this is the way to go, and we are also working on it across the parties and in different conciliation circles where we enter into agreements. What is probably the most important thing here, if I may say so, is that security of supply needs to be strengthened. We often get to talk about having an electrified society, that we need more electric cars and that we need green electricity. We agree with that in the Danish People's Party. The challenge is that our infrastructure around us cannot really keep up. And then I have to say that if you want both increased acceleration and increased security of supply, perhaps two things are going a little bit against each other, because we simply do not have an electricity grid today that can cope with it. Now I come from the province, and there is one in an area that has bought an electric car. It's also someone else who has • and then I happened to talk to an electrician who was out putting the electricians up on a private property, and then I ask: how many can there actually be connected in this residential area where there are about 80 homes? Then he says that he will estimate that on a Christmas Eve, where there is light in all the windows and the oven is running, there may be somewhere between seven and ten electric cars that can load at the same time. We can then discuss whether we should keep up the pace or whether we should really look at how we can both ensure security of supply and make the green transition work very well. So when we look at the proposal here, I do not know whether we can vote in favour of it as it stands. But we want to help push, and we also think that the intentions are right enough. With regard to whether we should actually have a new strategy, we may think that we should build on some of the stepping stones that we have laid. I think that all of us who helped to make the decision on the 70% knew that we had shown a road which is relatively wide, where you can choose to drive a little on one side of the road, but sometimes you have to go over and drive a little on the other side of the road, but we do know that the road is there and we also know that we are going in the right direction. So thank you for the motion for a resolution, and if we can end up in committee with a report in which we write something that can help push a little on the agenda and, as such, push a little on our own. So we take it down positively, but we are not voting for what it is here, but are happy to take part in a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204125823	This gave rise to a brief remark by Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204125827	Thank you to the rapporteur for DF. It is true that some stepping stones have been laid, there are targets. The intention of the proposal, if I may elaborate on it, is precisely to draw up a plan for how we do it. If you sit out in a company or anywhere else, you have goals, and then you make a strategy for how to meet them, and you see what you have of resources, capacity, people and technology, and then you make a plan with some different milestones for what to achieve. That is actually the intention of the proposal. We jump something there when we make an electrification law, because we have a problem with an energy grid. The climate partnerships say that 41 billion must be invested. kr. For the next 8, 9 years, and if it lasts, then we have to give priority to how we spend the money. We do have some targets for the production of VE, but we have to say that it has come to a halt, as the rapporteur of the Left pointed out, and then it is left a little to chance if anyone wants to do something locally. That's why the intention is, like, to try to get it together in a plan and get it prioritized. What does the rapporteur say about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204125939	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204125940	You cannot disagree with that, but there are just some things that make it more difficult, because it is complicated. We want to speed things up, while at the same time knowing that the infrastructure is not quite ready for this, and that is why there are some things that are becoming a little contradictory. We do not, of course, disagree with the authors of this motion for a resolution, but we are just thinking that this may not be the way to adopt a resolution on it, because there we would like to put it into the negotiating room, and then we simply have to take it in some steps. But the challenge is there, because we all want the green transition, and the economy must also keep up and, as has been said, it is very expensive to get our infrastructure, which is old and also worn out, to carry what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204130028	Good. Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Signe Munk from the SF. Here you go, Mrs. Signe Munk, for a freshly tempered speaker's chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204130048	It's so fancy. It is difficult to have been internship in health care for several months and then does not think it is quite important to ensure that there is clean and proper. So I appreciate sir. René Christensen's despriting of the platform. But that's not what I was supposed to talk about. We have before us a motion for a resolution on a new strategy for renewable energy, with the aim that electricity prices should be cheaper in the future, that the Danes should have more money available for themselves, that security of supply should be strengthened and that the green transition should be accelerated. If we are to be reasonable about this proposal, I think we need to break it down a little. It can be said that what I think most Danes are recording right now is that they can see that the heating bill for a lot of people is running away, and this is largely due to electricity prices, but also largely because of the rising price of natural gas. And there we are in a very acute situation, and I think we should deal with this by making a targeted heat check, which is given to those who are hit the hardest by these rising heat prices. But what is important to remember is that the green conversion of energy, i.e. both to have the natural gas retired, but also to have more green power built, i.e. wind turbines, solar cells, farm mills, is indeed the long-term solution to getting cheap green power in Denmark, and the green power we need to use very much throughout society, both for cars, of course when you have to turn on the bulb at home, but also in the heating sector, in district heating etc. And there is no doubt in my mind that we need to put up much more renewable energy. Sometimes there may well be a misunderstanding in the debate, and then it is just that we should only put windmills out at sea, and that is the way we achieve it. There I just have to say that it will be a boat and, because we need to have more solar cells throughout Denmark on land, wind turbines, but of course we also need more wind turbines at sea. It can be said that this resolution was tabled back in November, and that is quite normal procedure, but what happened then was that the Finance Act was closed in December, and there we had a number of parties that agreed with the government to set targets for more offshore wind expansion, so some steps have already been taken, among other things. In terms of setting up more gigawatts of sea wind. In addition, a toolbox must also be made to make the sun and wind set up on land roll better. In fact, I share the proposalers' ambition that there should be a global strategy for the development of renewable energy sources in order to ensure security of supply, because there is no doubt that, when the Danish energy system is changed, we must both make it green, but we must also ensure that there is security of supply, and this is a bit trivial, namely that there is power in the contact and that there is heat in the radiator for ordinary Danes. That is why I think it is important that the Minister for Climate Affairs has already announced that an energy and supply agreement should be negotiated this spring, because this is precisely where we need to address many of the elements contained in the resolution. When I put all this together, I think it is an important debate that the proposer raises, and I can easily see many important reflections and concerns and challenges that need to be resolved, but we will not be voting in favour of the fact that much of this is being done and that we must have energy and supply negotiations, that we have already acted in the Finance Act. Perhaps I also think that some of the points contained in the motion for a resolution are important, namely that it is the government that has to make this plan, and to that I would like to say that I would rather not, because I would like to negotiate a plan for energy and supply with the government and be involved in it. So, overall, we are not voting in favour, but we recognise that this is an important debate that is being addressed and that these are important challenges that the proposer points out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204130514	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204130519	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I just need to be absolutely sure whether you vote in favour or not because I heard a little bit of both. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. After all, the rapporteur's party has been supporting the government here for over 21⁄2 years. How much VE has been expanded during that time? I fully agree that we need more impetus and the faster solution is on land. What has been done to strengthen it on land? Is it easier to develop VE on land? Has this been clarified with the municipalities? The rapporteur says that this was a proposal I made in November, but I actually asked for rapporteur meetings both before the summer holidays, in June, and in August, whether we should not sit down and draw up a strategic plan on how to achieve our objectives. So my question is: do you vote in favour or not in favour? And how much VE has actually been expanded during the time SF has been a support party, other than a offshore wind farm, Thor, which has been won by the Germans by a draw of lots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204130620	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204130624	In the rapporteur's question, there is simply more than I can answer in one minute. We shall vote against it. I am a little over-positive, so I came to say: we are not voting in favour. But we shall vote against it. How the expansion has accelerated in relation to what it was like when the questioner's own party sat in government, indeed, we have a quadruple of our land capacity of the VE and a six-fold increase in offshore wind capacity planned. It takes more than that. But it's actually progress. When the rapporteur then asks whether it has become easier to set up, for example. Landwind and solar installations, I think there are, in fact, different answers. Because we're actually seeing an accelerating solar flare. We then see some challenges for land winds because of the tariff system, but the rapporteur's party is therefore itself part of the agreement that creates feed tariffs, which is a stop-point in this. So I think we have to recognise that it is a common ambition to have more renewable energy rolled out, but there is also a common task to solve the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204130727	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204130732	This is a common ambition and challenge, because we are all behind a climate agreement. That is also why there is such a broad foundation to take as a starting point in terms of how we achieve our goal. What is the challenge right now is that we now see that we have very high energy prices. It is not the case that with this proposal we could have completely avoided it, i.e. by having had a faster plan. But what you can be a little worried about is: what are we waiting for with regard to a toolbox for energy and supply, and when will it come into force when we really have an urgent challenge to expand our energy, especially on land? Because we know that it will probably come on the other side of 2030. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204130816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204130818	Well, in reality, there are several things that need to be done on the land side. The first and most important thing, I think, is that there will be clarification about the import tariffs. But it is not a solution which is addressed here in the proposal, as long as it lies with the electricity companies, and it is also a matter of getting rid of such strange obstacles, for example. The law of plan, that is, that our churches can put an end to a windmill project as soon as they can see it on the horizon. And last time I heard Conservative People's Party, they weren't ready to abolish that block in the legislation against VE stream, but it may be that Conservatives have changed their point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204130850	Thank you. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Rasmus Helveg Petersen, who is present in the Chamber but cannot take his place, so we will skip him. So it's gotta be sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten, who replaces the radical rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204130912	Thank you. As long as I have to say what Enhedslisten wants to say to the matter, I am satisfied with it. Good. We are always in favour of an energy and climate debate, but we cannot support this resolution. I think it is a little messy, and we should also bear in mind that there is something here that stands in different directions. It's fine to want to strengthen security of supply. This is something that normally costs network expansion and network reinforcement, and if it is the storage of electricity, we could come up with some differentiated electricity consumption, differentiated electricity charges that might compensate for it. But security of supply usually costs something. The motion for a resolution here will also encourage us to have some cheaper electricity. It is not possible to ensure in advance that this is where we end up, so I really would have liked the proposers to have been a little more keen on what they want with their motion for a resolution. And when you look at the fact that you are proposing a new strategy for renewable energy, this proposal has been put forward before we came up with a fiscal agreement from 2022. It has to be said that, in the wind turbine sector, the tracks are quite precisely laid out in the Finance Act. So we do not need a new strategy there. Then it can be said, on what is being developed on land, that we have ended up in a slightly wrong place with the technology-neutral supply, because we did not get a bid last time. We have to do something. Perhaps all of us, when we, including the Conservatives, adopted the last amendments to the law on electricity supply, have adopted something which sets the foundations for further expansion. It is therefore a good thing that the Finance Act also obliges the government to present a tool catalogue in the first half of 2022 in order to strengthen the development of solar and wind energy production on land in relation to the projection. This means that we have ordered something that should work so that we can actually get more renewable energy production on land. I would consider it to be part of a strategy process that the government has been instructed to produce a tool catalogue. We are also looking at some analyses that have been made of how we can come to change our normal energy supply and the rules for network companies, etc., so that we can have some direct lines and so that we can arrive at some local tariffs, and we have to come to the conclusion that the conditions for putting forward, for example. solar cells up in housing associations are being improved. But it is also in process; it has yet to be concluded. I think, in particular, that we are in something where the citizen involvement, where we bring the whole of society into the climate struggle, and where we provide better opportunities for small players to be involved, is probably what is missing most. This is sometimes apparent when we have debates as if the market could solve everything, but that is not the case. There is a lack of a strategy and a target for PV expansion in Denmark. It is a little coincidence that exists out there, and it is the great landowners who, as such, control too much. If we are to talk about security of supply, it is, of course, important that we resolve it, that we come to ensure that there is security of supply also in the eastern part of Denmark. But it has also become, what should be said, included in the financial law agreement, so there is also a process there that sort of takes care of it. So if you like to say that there is a lot of strategy missing here, I do not see that that is where we are. That is why we cannot vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, because the last financial law has, as it were, been ordered and laid off for so much. If I were to give a good piece of advice to the Conservatives on what they can do and which I can't do, then it's bringing some things to the planning negotiations, because there the government hasn't called up its parliamentary basis. Neither Radical, SF nor Enhedslisten are invited. And changes in the planning act can be made, in other words, to promote the expansion of renewable energy. I think that we should give the regions the competence to make overall planning, which relates to climate adaptation and the development of renewable energy. In the old days, the counties had overall windmill planning, and they did so well. So the Conservatives can take part in the planning negotiations and give priority to the development of renewable energy, so that citizens are taken into account, etc. So there the Conservatives can do more than if this resolution is adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204131416	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204131421	Thank you to the rapporteur, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. I think, too, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen recalls that when we discussed the Electricity Act this summer, he mentioned whether we should not have an electrification strategy before discussing a price, and that is again what I think is an expression of the lack of a plan. I think we need to differentiate between whether we are talking about objectives, some intentions, such as: is in a Finance Act 2022, and whether you have a plan for how to execute it, and that's probably where Christiansborg sometimes fails because you think in the big goals, the big ambitious things, but not in how to execute this in reality, and how to do it. When we talk about planning here, we are also talking about having what needs to be included, in other words technology, investors, companies and citizens, and it is quite true that the market is certainly not able to cope alone, as we see it. It is quite a coincidence what is shooting up around and for the irritation of the citizens. A plan law is a good idea, and we've tried, but there's no door coming in. But I'm afraid that's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204131531	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204131535	If such planning changes cannot be done where the government chooses to negotiate with the bourgeois, then the government is very welcome to come to its parliamentary basis and implement the necessary initiatives. In fact, I find it rather strange that this is only a matter of one kind, because there is some old piece of legislation. If we look at what is happening in the energy sector, then we are able to make one agreement after another, and it is so little different who is involved, and that is dealt with in a way. Sometimes you have a meeting where some are at the beginning of the meeting, and then they have to go out because we have a different conciliation circle, and it sort of mingelates nicely out there, and if you should describe how many agreements there are, you can get such a print on four pages and see all the agreements that exist. And in the area of the law of planes, there is only one line, one conciliation circle, that deals with everything. I don't think that's a fair way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204131635	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Zimmer of the Free Greens, who is to be put on the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204131659	Thank you. Clearly, many Danes are in a crisis now, that is, those who get the enormously high taxes on their energy. So at that point, there's a need to do something. It is not their fault, of course, and that is why I think that what we are doing in the negotiations on energy prices is fine, so we are working to give targeted help to those people who are most affected by these energy prices. It is, of course, a short-term situation, hopefully we are in, and it is also a help that needs to be given because we are too dependent on our outside world. We generally have a problem with our renewable energy infrastructure. It is too little we have, and it is too uncertain, and one of the things we could also look at in relation to our energy is that we should use the smarter one, that is to say we should get an intelligent tax, so that we can, for example, get one. charge your electric car at night or start the dishwasher at night to distribute your power consumption over the day. This will mean that we need it a little less. But what we also need is to reduce our consumption, to have our houses better isolated, to have decentralized solar installations or other renewable energy sources. As a starting point, we do not think that we need to help companies. Businesses need to redesign so that they use less energy and become more energy efficient, especially large companies that probably have a little more capital in their backs. It is possible that there is a need to help some small businesses, for example. with a loan, but the most important thing is that we secure renewable energy, and that must be done as soon as possible. That is why we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204131909	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Free Greens. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204131934	Thank you. First of all, thank you for a good debate here on a Friday afternoon. It's nice to feel the commitment. The green transition and our commitment to achieving a 70-percent CO 2 In terms of the high energy prices, I would say that, yes, most Danes now feel the consequences of what energy scarcity means: high energy prices. We in the Conservative People's Party have here tabled a motion for a resolution to draw up a strategy, or a plan, for renewable energy production • how much, where and how to achieve our common goal of reducing CO2 and also achieving our milestones, of course, in 2025. But it is certainly not just to meet our political objectives; it is to deliver on our common commitment, including to the next generation. So the purpose of the resolution is to speed up the green transition and not to pause it, as we are seeing a little now. A plan is a prerequisite for creating proper framework conditions for business. They cannot do it on their own, but they are the primary driving force for delivering on the targets. A plan for the amount of energy to be produced is essential to ensure an adequate supply of energy in the future and to ensure that energy prices are not as high as the sky. We find that the energy is handled a little too randomly, but the green energy is the backbone of the green transition; without it we do not get started electrification of trains, lighter transport and production, and without green energy we can say goodbye to power-to-x and hydrogen adventures before we get started, while several of our EU neighbouring countries develop power-to-x systems. If we don't get into that race, we lose a significant green strength position. Accelerate the electrification and on the VE to make hydrogen and other power-to-x products. Approx. 70-80 per cent. The cost of producing power-to-x is electricity price. If it's high, we're not getting anywhere. We risk using a lot of biomass and fossil fuels. We risk becoming importers of power-to-x and products, but we become exporters of electricity. It can be both expensive and cost negative on CO2 because we in Denmark have a very unique location in relation to renewable energy, and with a population of just under 6 million we should be self-sufficient and able to export. We have long called for strategic planning for the green transition, a mapping of mature technologies and market-driven solutions, a cross-relations approach and a priority for action and resources. It's not enough just to have great goals in a finance bill. This would normally be the case with any major plan or conversion. We have had a digital transition; now it is the green one. We should not leave this to the municipalities by chance without helping them, randomly to the market without setting proper framework conditions and randomly to whether the citizens will be left with the bill. The government has put forward a climate programme with 24 decisions to be taken or problems to be resolved. We have received many technical reviews and powerpoint presentations on how to achieve our goal. Isn't that enough? No, it is not, because we need a plan that brings it together and that is not just targets and calculations of potential CO2 The challenge is that more assumptions for calculations may not be true if we do not have cheap green power enough. For example: On 29 September, we received a review of the climate programme, which states that the electrification scenario is based on the assumptions of relatively low prices in power-to-x and a high degree of electrification, among other things. heat pumps and power-driven transport. This is something far away from reality here in 2022. In FL 2022, the government and the financial law of the supporting parties, the energy islands that we support are also included, but we still lack the framework conditions and a clear offer. There is the expansion of 2 GW winds and there is the possibility for private providers to set up wind energy; this is the latest. However, there is a right of veto for municipalities on land and 15 km from the coast, and we have not created incentives for municipalities or citizens to embrace wind turbines. This week, for example, I could. read that a unanimous council says no to windmills in Køge Bay. Another but is our energy grid. It is not sufficiently developed to cope with the violent electrification. It is planned that VE providers will have to pay the price in order to connect, but no one knows the price, so the market has stalled. The electricity companies have to pay for maintenance, but it is expansion that is required in particular who is to pay for it? The climate partnership has mentioned that it may cost 41 billion. kr. over the next 8-9 years. So objectives are fine, but we lack a plan and a priority and not that the good solutions come sometime later this year. On page 15, it is also said that there will be a proposal for a green energy sector in mid- or end 2022, and it is also in the climate programme. We've heard something about that, but we actually called for us in this circle to make strategic planning, back in July and August 2021, and then we came up with this proposal in November 2021... 21⁄2 years after the government got the mandate on Constitution Day in a climate election. So the answer to the Danes, if energy prices rise in the sky, is not that there will be a good solution by the end of 2022. Specifically, it is about how we get green power in the contact and how we are going to produce all the green energy that is the basis for power-to-x and green fuels. Right now, we may have a third of the renewable energy we need to achieve the 70-percent target. We have a slowing down of the VE, which has also been mentioned by several rapporteurs. The framework conditions are not good enough, there is high investor uncertainty, there is a tendency for municipalities to slow down land planning, which is a veto, in relation to where they are to be produced, and there is also a distortion between East and West Denmark and between the major cities. We simply have to recognise that the toolbox and the management rules in force do not adequately increase the production of renewable energy. So that is why we in the Conservative People's Party have tabled this motion for a resolution that together as parties, together with business and investors, and with a listening ear to the citizens, we have created a platform to create a national plan for the development of renewable energy. And such a strategy or plan must consist of several things. We need to have the targets for how much VE is to be produced in 2025 and 2030, but also up to 2040, so that we reach the target by 2050. We need development planning that is credible for developers, suppliers and investors and for the whole value chain. We need clear framework conditions and demands for nature and citizen involvement. We can't afford any more Omø Syd or a Hesselø, which is still on rocking ground because of mud. We can also look at what we can do to ensure that citizens take greater ownership. After all, we who were in Scotland to COP26 together learned that a surplus can also be returned to the citizens so that they can benefit from it locally. It takes 6-10 years to establish a VE park at sea, which is why it is also very important that we get it done thoroughly. We also need to think about extending the VE into the planning law, as Enhedslisten also suggested. We very much lack that. And it's a little interesting that things go so parallel or silo-like. There, too, it could have been brought in, because IT and digitisation are also a key to the green transition. Fifthly, we must also strike a balance with municipal autonomy. Several municipalities are said to be missing a lever from Christiansborg; they really want to take the lead, but they also have something they have to face up to the citizens. Last but not least, we also have a huge public sector and a shopping muscle from the state to increase the demand for these green fuels. We need a demand side, and the government could start to drive greener. So this proposal is not a criticism, but it is an attempt to be constructive and to bring something from the outside so that we can see how we can find common ground, become inclusive, rethink a different form of planning and create the framework conditions, including in terms of citizens and nature. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204132916	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are a few brief comments and first from Mrs Paulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204132925	Thank you. You often hear from the Conservative People's Party and from the rapporteur that everything would have gone faster and been better, etc., if it were the Conservatives who sat in government offices. It's kind of on the hypothetical ball street, but because it's Friday, I agree to the thought experiment. After all, the Conservatives lost the struggle for the green of the government that was there and that you were part of during the last reign. We saw, among other things, the cancellation of the climate target set for 2020, and unfortunately we saw many other unfortunate things. And I think it is quite inconceivable that we would have gotten the Climate Act that we would have got a 70-percent target if we had continued with the government that we had when you were in power, in that one of the governing parties, the Liberal Alliance, was not included in the Climate Act. So can the rapporteur not reveal how the rapporteur specifically imagines that we would have gone further with the green transition if we had continued with the government constellation that was there during the last government period?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133029	Well, I can easily imagine the Conservatives being in a government it's not difficult. And I'm sure that day will come and I hope so very much. What is all the difference between the red road and the blue road and that's an image I used in my own election campaign is that the red road is two gas handles, namely more regulation and more taxes, but for example. In my own party we have got six new people who have over 120 years of work experience; we are used to putting the players together when you make a change and when you execute it in reality. So we are not going to sit around and make rigid offers of support; we are not going to say that now we are just sitting at the centre and planning the big goals without really thinking about reality. The government had everything on a silver platter it was a climate choice; everyone turned green. There are climate partnerships from industry, but they are not being used. The Business Council meets twice a year for 2 hours! That's not taking our business business seriously. There's the big difference. It is they who have to implement it; it is not just more legislation and more taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133134	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133138	I believe that if anyone has done something to create involvement, including the involvement of business, then it is the government, among other things. with the climate partnerships. But let me ask even more specifically, in relation to exactly what is the intention of this motion for a resolution: how does this differ from what is already agreed by a majority in the Danish Parliament with the adoption text in the context of the financial bill debate, that a plan for the development of renewable energy sources should be presented, which will ensure that Denmark is a net exporter of green energy by 2030 and which has already been decided? How does your motion for a resolution differ from that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133215	This motion for a resolution differs by the fact that it is about identifying what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, and how it is given priority. And then there is the whole process of involvement with the players. This has been done before the Finance Act, so perhaps we have been inspired by the motion for a resolution in relation to the Finance Act, as far as this is concerned. And that is what I think is the big thing and so that we now get it started. It is very late for a tool catalogue to be created sometime in 2022, i.e. 3 years after a climate choice where everyone turned green. That's one of the first things you'd do. Well, I'm a little surprised it takes so long.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133257	The next brief remark is from Mrs Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133303	I think I will start by informing you that the climate crisis and the need for the green current also existed before the 2019 elections. What is interesting then is that the rapporteur's party was in government before 2019. If we are to cut it to the very minimum, there would be no binding climate legislation under the rapporteur's government. There is now under the Social Democratic Government that the SF has pushed hard on in relation to climate ambitions. What I would like to hear, because I cannot understand, is that when the rapporteur is standing here saying that there is not enough green current, why the rapporteur's party has not taken care, when the rapporteur's party was in government, that more was being planned and built in the sea wind. Because what the rapporteur says is quite right: an offshore wind turbine that is to operate will not be ready until seven years from now. Why didn't you make it before the 2019 elections, so we wouldn't be missing so much green power now and therefore have higher electricity prices among others.?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133400	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133405	It is always interesting, when you have a discussion now, to look back and ask why you haven't done one thing or another, or say that if you had done something 4-5 years ago, it would be so. I also believe that the rapporteur is aware that everyone has been aware of the urgency of the green transition. This has happened after climate agreements have been made in the European Union. Goals have arrived. The Paris Agreement has been made. There has been one after another, so we have all become aware of it and because all young people thank you for it! It is not the case that the very green has not been there before. There have also been green purchasing strategies. There have been plenty of other green initiatives. The Conservative People's Party was the first party to sign and participate in the first Climate Act. So it is not the case that the Conservatives have not wanted the green at all, but it is clear that something quite different has come after the climate elections back in 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133501	Here you go, Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133506	I ask because the rapporteur stands and says: if only I were to decide, it would be much better. And then I just don't understand why it wasn't better when you decided. But let it lie there; let us look forward. After all, the rapporteur's party is part of the draft law settlement, and it is the case today that if you can see from the church a windmill on the horizon, you have the right to say: no, there must be no windmill. And if the rapporteur would very much like to have wind turbines set up quickly, there is a concrete project in West Himmerland that has been stopped right now because of that legislation. Can the rapporteur say here that it will work towards abolishing in the forthcoming draft law negotiations? I'd really like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133538	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133541	I am not specifically involved in the draft law negotiations, and I am discussing it here with the rapporteur. As I said, there are a lot of considerations to take locally, where we have those wind turbines. I am not saying, as I said before, that everything had been much better. I say that we have some other solutions, and that is what we are trying to bring to the table. You have to take these things into the law of plans. There are also plenty of complaints that we cannot be allowed to set our power masts up for digitalisation and provide access to it. There are a lot of considerations, but that's why you have to think this through. It is so important that we have the support of the citizens, otherwise the green transition could eventually share the waters, and that is the last thing we want in Denmark. In fact, I believe that a great many Danes would like to see the green transition and also understand it. At Bornholm, you have made some good solutions where you have brought the citizens with you. We can learn something from them too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133633	That was the last word of this debate. Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133700	The debate is open. First we give the floor to the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204133706	Thank you. It is, of course, positive that the Left supports the objective of CO2 and 54 per cent. in 2025. I think there were many of us who thought that they should be dragged a little to the trough. But peace be with it, now we are there, and it is of course a pleasure that there is also the will and imagination to point to means of action. The motion for a resolution is about the government presenting by the end of the year a qualified plan for the advance of coal phasing out at the Nordjyllandsværk by 2025. I think that before the end of the year this must refer to last year. The government has already done so, and we did so before the end of last year. Nordjyllandsværket is a coal-fired combined heat and power plant owned by an independent company, Aalborg Forsyning, and they have presented to me and the Ministry a plan for coal phasing out, which means that the plant will close down the coal at the end of 2028. Aalborg Forsyning and the mayor of Aalborg have then approached me in 2021 and presented an opportunity to advance the coal phase to mid 2025, in exchange for state support, so that the additional cost does not burden the heat consumers in Aalborg. Then there has been a close dialogue between the Ministry and Aalborg Providence on that possibility, and a qualified plan has already been drawn up on that basis. In this context, it has been clarified that the additional cost of Aalborg Supply is approx. 415 million kr., which Aalborg Utility wants state support to cover. In addition, the State will have a loss of tax over the period 2025-2028 of 335 million. DKK, so the total state cost can be estimated at 750 million. kr. It is also clarified that such a model with some uncertainty is expected to actually be acceptable under the State aid rules. With an advance to mid 2025, there will be a contribution to achieving our 2025 target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. That, of course, is also one of the reasons why we looked at that possibility seriously. However, the government has considered that the most appropriate way of closing the remaining shortfall is primarily through the green tax reform that we are about to negotiate. In the view of the government, there is more sense in using funding for initiatives which, in the long run, have a significantly larger perspective towards climate neutrality. The fact is that the advance of the carbon phase from 2028 to 2025 will not contribute to the 2030 objective. It does not therefore contribute to the long-term transformation of the country and does not promote the development of new technologies. The only measure will be to advance and even force investments in large heat pumps, which are already included in the current 2028 plan for the plant. At least as important is that the coal-fired plants in Odense and Esbjerg have not been helped by the state to make the conversion that they have chosen to take care of themselves. On Funen, it will be consumers who will have increased heating bills as a result of the investment decision taken there. And it wouldn't be fair if the state spent three quarters of a billion dollars on Aalborg Supply, when you haven't seen yourself able to do it in Odense and Esbjerg It's true that you did this, the coal firing that you would have less of from 2025-2028 will lead to a smaller discharge in those years. Of course. This applies to all the remaining emissions in our society until we reach climate neutrality. This also applies to the things we want to do in agriculture, the transport sector and so on. The government has presented a roadmap for a green Denmark which contains what we think is a sensible priority for concrete initiatives that make the green transition effective from an economic, social and employment perspective, but of course above all from a green perspective. My conclusion, then, is that the government does already have such a plan on the desk, but that, despite the fact that such a plan could be done, we do not want to support it because it is simply too expensive in relation to the effect, because it would not be fair to those who have not been able to obtain the support and because we can achieve our 2025 target, which is, of course, a very ambitious objective, with other means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134237	Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. There is a brief comment from Mrs Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134246	Thank you. In this way, the Left has always wanted a climate component. We think that is sensible. We do not believe in a hockey stick model where CO2 is first to be found When the Minister finds that it has been difficult, it is because we insist that there should be a plan with the means to achieve the 2025 milestone. And if the government does not want to take part in this proposal to achieve the 2025 milestone, what will be done instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134314	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134320	I don't understand why we have to go back to Adam and Eve every time we have this discussion. That is simply not true when the rapporteur says that the Left has always been in favour of a 2025 target. Last time we had this discussion, I think I literally read out a quote from Thomas Danielsen, current group chairman, saying: we are against a 2025 target. And I can understand that, because when we were discussing the original plan, I also had a number of reservations about setting the 2025 target. Now we have it, and when we made our agreement with the support parties, it took some time before the Left joined, but fortunately they have done so now. How are we supposed to get there? Yes, the lack of funds is fortunately to be overcome, because we have taken a number of measures at the latest with the Finance Act, which means that we are rapidly approaching, fortunately. And it is our belief that we can close the remaining gap with efforts in the area of tax reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134412	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134416	Yes, and I think that, when we had the debate last time, I read quotes from the then climate rapporteur Tommy Ahlers, who had written a letter to the Minister saying that the Left supports the partial objective. But let it go. We fully support the climate component because it makes sense. But I have to understand it correctly: so the Minister believes that the 2025 target should be achieved only by means of green tax reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134440	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134443	Now Mrs Marie Bjerre said that the Left has always been in favour of a 2025 target, and then it is just that I point out that the current group chairman in the Left was hardcore against a 2025 target hardcore is an English expression and means he was very opposed; I know that English terms are not allowed. However, it is a good thing that he has also changed his position, but I can at least say that he who is otherwise taken to account for the fact that the Left has been ambitious all the way through, Mr President. Tommy Ahlers, no longer a member of the thing. But let us hope that that attitude has spread. And yes, it is true that we expect to close the gap through the tax reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134517	Thank you to the Minister for Climate and Energy. We go to the ordinary series of rapporteurs, and the first speaker is Mrs Anne Paulin from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134533	Thank you. Of course, coal should not be part of the energy supply of the future. In the future, Denmark is a climate-neutral society, our heat is green, our power is green, and we no longer have to pull oil and gas out of the North Sea, and therefore, of course, we should not shovel coal into the ovens of our heating plants. Nevertheless, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I will reject the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left, which we are debating today, because the state should not place nearly three-quarters of a billion kroner in a state-aided phasing-out of coal at the North Jutland plant. The phase-out takes place according to the current plan in 2028. Could it go any faster? Yeah, it could. And should it go faster? Yes, I think so, because both Odense and Esbjerg have chosen to phase out the coal faster than the original plan. There is just the significant difference that in Odense and Esbjerg it is the local heating customers who pay for the green ambition that is set. And it is a mystery to me why the Left, who is betting on the drum for not being a Dane more expensive, believes that it is reasonable that the citizens of Esbjerg and Odense and, as such, in all sorts of heat areas in Denmark, where the use of coal has been stopped, should pay for a carbon phasing out in North Jutland. So, yes, the coal has to go faster, the better, but we do not think it is the State's job to pay for a job somewhere in the country that you have to pay for elsewhere in the country. Then I should like to welcome the radical rapporteur, Rasmus Helveg Petersen, and say that the Radical Left is also against B 47.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134708	Thank you. This gave rise to a few brief comments, first from Mr Beyer de Ryke. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134715	It is clear that you will not hurry to phase out the coal at Nordjyllandsværket. Now it is the case that about a third of our coal imports are burned off at Nordjyllandsværk. This means that two thirds are burned by other places. I would really like to know whether the rapporteur can see for himself that we could try to examine an effort to phase out the large part of the coal. Because it is sometimes that you have such very visible symbols as a large coal power plant, which it would be significant to close. But since most of the coals are burned by other places, it could be that we could strengthen the electrification of some industries or whatever. I do not have an overview of that, but will the rapporteur help to see if there is not a potential up to 2025 in relation to having more of the coal burned by other places phased out?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134807	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134810	Fortunately, there are already plans in some places to get rid of the coal that is being burned today. In general, however, my position is that we should look at all the places where we can intervene. We need to consider what we can do when we can have a faster phasing-out of fossil fuels, because that is the main reason why we are facing the climate challenges that we are doing. However, the fact that State aid is being sent off specifically to a task which has been solved with its own money elsewhere in the country, I do not think that is the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134844	Here you go. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134847	I wasn't really talking about government money either. I was talking about looking at what it took to phase out the other coal. I do not know to what extent they are horticultural or fish meal factories, or that is Aalborg Portland. Well, they certainly have a bunch of it. But it could be something that is a little overlooked and where there might be something that is easy to handle. At least you could get the overview. And I listened a little bit to the rapporteur being a little open to that. But is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134916	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134919	In the Social Democratic Party we are always open to discussing good ideas from the Enhedslisten, which is why it is also good that we are looking into a really exciting negotiation process this spring, where we are going to discuss the energy sector and we need to discuss the supply sector and what we are doing to push the green transition that we are all so concerned with. So I certainly do not deny that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen could have some good ideas on the block.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134944	The next question is Mrs. Marie Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204134948	The government presented its foreign strategy on Monday, and the foreign strategy says, and I quote: "Therefore Denmark declares war on coal and pushes for a green transition away from fossil fuels. Well, if you're serious, why don't you do it at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135007	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135009	I think we do that very much at home. If anyone is at the forefront of the fight against fossil fuels in the world, it is Denmark, among others. with our decisions in the North Sea to set a phasing-out date for the extraction of oil and gas from out there. And as everyone knows, this is also something that our climate minister is very concerned about and has made an international alliance for, for which there are more and more countries that join, in relation to precisely getting rid of fossil fuels. So that is something that we are so concerned about. The coal phase is also extremely important, and this is done at Nordjyllandsværket in 2028. We'd like to see it happen faster. Mrs. Marie Bjerre comes from the area, so maybe she can try to convince some of those who live in the local area to push. We just don't think it's a state task to go in to fund this task, which has been done by its own operations elsewhere in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135111	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135113	Now I didn't really ask about oil and gas. I asked about coal. It says in the foreign strategy: "Therefore, Denmark declares war on coal and pushes for a green transition away from fossil fuels. ▪ The declaration of war on coal doesn't seem to apply at home. Because if you do not choose to support this proposal, does the rapporteur not recognise that it is slow to phase out coal at home? Incidentally, the rapporteur can talk to the local Social Democrats in the municipality of Aalborg, because I am quite sure they would think it was a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135140	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135143	I am also sure that they would think it was a good idea for the state to finance it, and that is where we say, in relation to this resolution, that we do not want to do that because we have paid for it ourselves elsewhere in the country. And so I would just like to say that, if anyone has helped to make it even more easy to get rid of coal in Denmark, it is the rapporteur's party which, as far as I remember, cancelled a national objective of carbon phasing out during the last period of government, which was two and a half years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135217	Thank you. The next question is Mrs. Signe Munk from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135221	I just have to hear the ruling party: when it is said that the green tax reform can find enough reductions to achieve the 2025 objective, is it to be understood that it is the government's ambition to simply sneak up above the 50% limit? I am asking because the 2025 objective has a range of up to 54 per cent, and in the climate struggle every tonne counts.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135248	I agree with the latter, i.e. it does, of course. What we are concerned with is that we must and must achieve our partial objectives, and then, in the context of the negotiations on tax reform, we must see what we can agree with the parliamentary parties on. Hopefully, we will be even more wise about this as early as next week, when we will see some of the models on which the expert group has been sitting and counting, and then there will be a lot of discussions about it in the coming period.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135323	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135325	I am asking because, from a SF point of view, there are both tools in the green tax reform, but also everywhere else in the political toolbox, among other things. in relation to setting a target for carbon phasing out in 2025. So I have to ask the rapporteur again, because I did not understand what was the answer: is it the ambition of the Social Democrats that we should only exactly reduce by 50%? in 2025, or that it should be in the range between 50 and 54 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135351	Social democracy is, of course, concerned that we can go as far as it makes sense in relation to the 2025 target. We therefore want to have an ambitious green tax reform which, of course, can also make a significant contribution to the 2030 objective, but can also deliver something to the 2025 objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135415	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135428	Thank you. In fact, when we started this discussion, I had the starting point, as the rapporteur has, that this must be done for themselves in Aalborg. But when I saw the charts of what the displacement price per. Ton is, I must say, that phasing out coal in Aalborg a few years earlier is in fact one of the very cheapest ways to achieve the 2025 target, at least to some extent. Does the rapporteur have any idea that the other instruments will be equally inexpensive, or is it more the principle that, in this situation, we should think in the same way? Because I really don't think there's so much equality in it. We're in a movement now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135511	I understand, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer's question, but I still think there are some considerations here: now that you have taken up a task in one place in the country, why can you not do it elsewhere in the country? And I have also seen the way in which this proposal has been accepted by the rapporteur's party colleagues in Esbjerg, where the mayor has been out to say: well, then I would actually like to get some money on post-financing. And that is how I think it is in many places around where you have made some investments in the green transition, where you have gone ahead and where you look at it here and say: well then we would actually like the state to make a small payment for the effort we have put in. And I do not know whether this is a sensible way of planning our climate policy. We certainly do not think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135602	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135606	Well, I'm wondering a little bit. This means that, on the basis of equality, we are prepared to pay a higher price to achieve the 2025 target, when there are, I would have liked to say, some fruits that we can pick up. I'm having a little trouble understanding that. I think, and we have also told them in Esbjerg, that the reality is that we are somewhere else than we were then, and that is why we have a different situation. Should not society choose to use the most efficient and cheapest means? I find it hard to understand if we don't have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135643	It is, of course, good to hear that there is a good discussion in the Left about this. I still think that, in fact, given that this is a task that you have gone in and solved elsewhere in the country recently, you have solved it in Esbjerg, you have solved it on Funen, you will be a little expensive to pay if the state then has to go in and say: Well for you there are some other rules. And so little money isn't what we're talking about either. I think we can all find something to use them on, which is also sensible and worthwhile in the green transition. And, as I said, green tax reform is what we see must be driving towards achieving the 2025 target.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135720	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. You are always welcome to drink, but that is no longer a requirement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204135741	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the motion for a resolution. Does the Danish People's Party want us to phase out coal as soon as possible? Yes, we would like that and that this proposal could be a part of it; perhaps it could be. But if you look at the proposal as such, you see that it is a matter of advance from 2028 to 2025, a cost of 400 million. kr. and about a work which is actually owned by Aalborg Utility, which is a limited company and has an independent board of directors. And what you can read about what they want should perhaps have filled a little bit more in the resolution than we are discussing this matter today. It was actually the case that when we were doing this with putting out the utilities, it was in order to get an arm's length principle in relation to the politicians. Now we go in here and say, shall we do something very special here? We would like to be involved in this if we could also find funding for it and there was also a desire for it locally. I think that, at least with the things that both the Minister and the previous rapporteur have said, I am missing too, and that may well be because I am a little new in this area. An overview of what has happened in the past in other areas, i.e. where we have substituted these shifts, and where we have not substituted these shifts, which have taken place in many parts of the country. So, on the basis of the debate that has taken place so far, I would like to say that we will probably have a committee question on whether we can get an overview of what has actually happened backwards so that we can look at what needs to be done forwards; thus, not saying that we do not think it is a good idea that we should phase out coal, because we think that, but of course, it should be done in a proper way. What's the alternative? We have just had a case from the Conservatives, where security of supply was a major concern, and it is also very important to have security of supply in North Jutland. So, if we phase out coal prematurely, it is also very important that, with the technology that goes in and takes it over, we are quite sure that there is also the security of supply that needs to be provided, especially if it is the legislation that obliges them to do so before the time frame that the board of Aalborg Supply probably sits and works with. So we have at least some questions on it during the committee procedure, but again I would say that we agree with the intentions. The sooner we can get rid of coal, the better it is, I actually don't think anyone disagrees. Well, that's the way to go then. And again: we are not part of the agreement around 2025, but yes, we are part of the agreement about reaching the 70%, and the sooner we can reach them, the better it is for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204140036	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Signe Munk of the Socialist People's Party. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. We're gonna make it all. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204140054	Coal is climate-laden, there is no doubt about that. And coal is even at the really black end of the scale both literally, but also climatewise. So there is no doubt that coal must get out of our heat supply and in general all the places where it is still used to a greater or lesser extent, all the time it needs the climate. The specific motion for a resolution here concerns a plan to advance the coal phase at the Nordjyllandsværket in Aalborg. The original plan for the plant is that the coal should be retiring in 2028, but the proposal here suggests that a plan be drawn up for this to happen in 2025. We share that ambition in the SF. And we share it because when we are going to reduce CO2 emissions, we have to use all the tools we can get on and look at what they cost and how possible they are. There we see it possible to phase out the coal at Nordjyllandsværket in 2025. But I also think it is important to say that it is not just a christiansborg task. There is also a local board of directors at the plant, and there is a city council that also has a huge task in terms of finding the heat source to replace the coal and having a phasing out plan made. There is no doubt that it is a great task to make green conversion, and that is why I think it is a good idea that the support also comes from the best forces in the Ministry of Climate in the form of a plan. It should also be borne in mind that the tools to get the carbon phase out in 2025 are also more. The first sub-report from the Committee of Experts on the Green Tax Reform is about to come, and here in fact the mandate states that they must relate to the tools for phasing out coal in the heat supply. We are waiting for this with interest to see how we can use the tax tool to push the coal phase forward. At the same time, the Climate Council also says that a uniform CO2 The two tools are important for us to have in the drawer, or rather take up the drawer and use in this context. It remains to be seen whether the State and the Danish Parliament are to provide a co-financing. And when I read in the comments on the Left's motion for a resolution, I see that it says that it must be taken from the green room of manoeuvre. And I just have to say that in the Treasury the money doesn't have color, it's not red, blue, green or yellow. It's money. When we talk about the scope there is, any co-financing for SF should not be found within the scope. It must be extra money that is being brought in to help with cofinancing. After all this has been put together, we in the SF support the motion for a resolution with the fallen comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204140435	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Bjerre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204140440	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for supporting the proposal. We could hear from the Social Democrats before that the Social Democrats and the government will find the reductions in order to achieve the 2025 milestone, i.e. the 1-4 million. t CO 2 Thinks SF, it's realistic that you can find so many CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220204140503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204140504	I find it difficult at this stage to say what green tax reform can now be turned around in isolation. I do not think it is unrealistic to find 1 million. It must be acknowledged that they are probably something better in what some suggestions about how it can be screwed up can be than I can just stand and come up with here on the platform. However, what is just important to me is that green tax reform is one tool, but that I think there are more tools than the 2025 target. It's the carbon phase here, but it's also raising a CO2 So in SF we're looking at more tools than just the green tax reform. I find it difficult at this stage to say exactly what it can deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204140557	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204140600	Thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the SF rapporteur also believes that other tools need to be used if we are to achieve the 2025 milestone. Well, the industry stands for 8 million. t CO 2 t CO 2 It is very difficult to see how this can happen by 2025 without loss of jobs, prosperity and leakage. So I am pleased that the rapporteur agrees that we also need to look at other instruments if we are to achieve our 2025 milestone.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204140628	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204140642	After all, it is a matter of making a qualified plan for the phasing out of coal at Nordjyllandsværket by 2025. We'd like to make that happen. We in the Enhedslisten would like to phase out as much coal as possible as possible. We are also waiting eagerly for Tuesday next week to see what it is getting an input, about CO2 I can imagine that we are making a fast CO2 two thirds of the coal used elsewhere. Where is it? And is there anything where we can be helpful in making a faster phasing out of coal other than right at the Nordjyllandsværk? I think that is extremely interesting to get a very good light on. The Left's proposal here envisages that it should be financed through the green room for manoeuvre set aside in the financial priorities of the Left. I just have to say that the 2022 Finance Act has been concluded with the government and the parliamentary basis plus a few more parties, and it was not the Left. So this is the financial law we have, and not the financial law of the Left. This is just like the framework we have, so it is not the proper funding that the Left has written into its resolution. I also think it is important to focus on how we help Aalborg Municipality convert the Nordjyllandsværket to other fuels. There is a little debate about what is reasonable and what is not reasonable. Since Fynsværket and the work in Esbjerg have been able to handle it on their own, why should Aalborg not be able to handle it too? It has to be said that, at some point, Aalborg chose not to make a conversion to biomass. If they had chosen it, they could, as I have been told, have received approx. 30 million kr. in grants per year for 20 years. That would have been 600 million. kr. They are not in that situation, and it is a good thing that they have not chosen the solution that is a bad solution when it is imported biomass. Is it so reasonable that they might be helped in that conversion? Yes, I really think so, and I think we should try to look at what indirect or direct aid could be provided in order to achieve a faster carbon phasing-out at the North Jutland plant. The Minister said that if Aalborg succeeds in phasing out coal more quickly, the state will have a loss. That's right. After all, the state also has a loss if the citizens out there choose to invest massively in electric cars rather than to drive on in their diesel jets. Yes, but it should not be that it is what sort of governs our climate and energy policy, that is, that the state has the prospect of a loss. We are looking into something where there may be things that are accelerated and that a transition takes place more quickly. I think it is a good thing that the Left has put forward this proposal, and I think that if it ended up with another coal being phased out more quickly, then we have achieved something. That is what I would like to see clarified in a committee procedure: where is the other coal burning taking place and what are the options for reducing it? We would also like to focus on how. Now the Minister said that there was a plan in the Ministry for how to phase out coal more quickly. Could that plan possibly be changed to something else? I have taken note of the fact that we have reached an agreement on geothermal energy. Could it influence what you choose in Aalborg to change your fuel mix? I find that interesting. Is there anything we can do? Are there any framework conditions we should change to support Aalborg achieving a transition to sustainable district heating? We in the Enhedslisten are completely open to that. But we are not in favour of voting tomorrow for a proposal to phase out coal without a qualified plan. And it is, of course, the qualified plan described in the motion for a resolution, so we fully acknowledge that. And, of course, in addition to CO2, a qualified plan must also be drawn up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204141113	Thank you very much to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204141127	With the motion for a resolution B 47, the Left proposes requiring the government to draw up before the end of the year a qualified plan for phasing out coal from the North Jutland plant. The aim is to advance the phasing-out to 2025 in order to bring Denmark closer to the goal that Denmark should reduce its emissions by 50-54 per cent. So I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for the floor and thank them. Speaking of plans in the previous proposal, we have just not seen a plan for how the government will achieve the 2025 climate target, and we still have the merit of seeing the Commission's report and the government's proposals for a green tax reform. So it is no wonder that the proposers are starting to become a little impatient and here trying to make a bid to find some of the CO2t less CO2 and it is even at a low shadow price • the price per. reduced tonnes of CO2 Every single unit of greenhouse gas emitted from today until we reach net zero emissions is damaging the climate. That is why the climate is well served by an ambitious contribution to achieving the reductions in 2025. The advance of the phasing out of coal from Nordjyllandsværk can therefore make sense. We just have some reservations, though. Firstly, a CO2 Second, it would be unfair for a number of plants which have paid for the phasing out of coal themselves and which are now boning their customers at the expense of the conversion. Thirdly, there must at least be some funding, and we in Conservatives do not have this line on our financial law, so we will have a little difficulty in saying how it should be financed. At the same time, in addition to what is stated in the motion for a resolution, there is a loss of revenue of 40 to 80 million. kr. in 2024, 80-120 million. kr. in 2025 and 100-150 million. kr. in 2026 and 2028. So we support the intention and ambition, and we look forward to the work of the committee to see if we can do anything, because we also want a culexit in 2025. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204141401	Thank you very much to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Green Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204141418	There is no doubt that we in the Free Greens want coal phased out as soon as possible. We need to do this in order to reach CO2 The Climate Council believes that coal is one of the most obvious things to focus on in this context. We need to move forward there so that we ensure that CO2 We should not put the future of the climate in the hands of some businessman. We should be a pioneering country, and this requires us to dare to take the difficult and expensive decisions. And it is a little problematic that coal plants in Esbjerg and Odense have managed to speed up the phasing out of coal without receiving state support. Therefore it could be said that Nordjyllandsværket should do the same. It costs quite a lot of money to get it done. That's 750 million. kr. Perhaps that money could be spent better on reducing elsewhere and on getting more renewable energy elsewhere. Nevertheless, it might be interesting to look at: what is this conversion about here? What do you want at the cogeneration plant? Is it geothermal that we know works very well in Thisted? But CO2 As a starting point, it is not the case that all the taxpayers of the country should pay for North Jutland's consumption. Nevertheless, we would like to reserve the right to see what comes out during the committee's proceedings. So we tend mostly not to vote for this, but are open.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204141630	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the proposers. This is Mrs. Marie Bjerre from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204141659	Thank you for the floor. This proposal is very simple: we have to deduce less CO2 climate change is serious, and it matters what we emit from CO2 Every single CO2 we know that. We know that what we emit today affects the world we pass on to our children. Therefore, every single CO2 This is also why the Left voted for the 2025 climate component. We do not believe in a hockey pole model that we should first find CO2 Honestly, we also think it is irresponsible that the government has not presented a roadmap on how to achieve the 2025 climate target. When we in the Left voted in favour, yes, it was because at the same time we were also willing to prioritize it and point to concrete initiatives that could reduce CO2 Yes, and one of the initiatives is this proposal: Bring the coal phase out at the North Jutland plant. It's not something we're just suggesting. The Climate Council has pointed to the phasing out of coal at the Nordjyllandsværk as one of the initiatives to achieve the climate milestone in the commentary of the climate programme this autumn. The same tones are from Danish District Heating and Denmark's green think tank CONCITO, which also sees earlier phasing out of the coal as a good means of reducing CO2 That the government will not be on this proposal, which I can hear today, I think frankly shows that it does not really want the green transition, but excuses itself that it is too expensive that it is not fair. I'm just asking, what about the climate? Is that fair for the climate? I think it is very unfortunate and the arguments do not stand up, which is why I would like to make the good arguments for the proposal and explain why the arguments against, moreover, do not stand up. First: Nordjyllandsværket emits a lot of CO2 last year, Nordjyllandsværket burned so much coal that it emitted 1.3 million. t CO 2 Just to put it in perspective: that's only 9-10 million. t CO 2 So that Nordjyllandsværket stands for such a large share is quite significant. The Nordjyllandsværket itself says that if we advance the phase-out from 2028 to 2025, we can save the climate of 3.3 million. t CO 2 Secondly, an advance contributes to the 2025 climate component. If the parties who voted in favour of the climate component do not like this proposal, then it is up to them to point out other proposals. We think it is irresponsible to vote in favour of a partial goal without taking action. That's what we in the Left do with this proposal. Thirdly, if we do nothing, Denmark will be the 16th or 17th country in Europe to phase out coal in electricity generation. It sure does sound hollow when we want to be a pioneer. The government has just presented a new foreign strategy. It says: Therefore Denmark declares war against coal and pushes for a green transition away from fossil fuels. If you're serious, you have to do it at home. Fourthly, the proposal is a very low-hanging fruit to reach CO2 Supporting progress has a very low shadow price. The Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply has calculated the price at DKK 650. per tonnes of CO2 This is actually the cheapest measure we can do to reduce CO2 So the thing about it being too expensive doesn't last. It would not mean job losses either. It wouldn't mean leakage, that is, that we get CO2 emitted. It's a very low-hanging fruit, and if we don't support this proposal, then there's just some other places we have to find the reductions, and it's going to be more expensive. Fifthly, it is not unreasonable to support the Nordjyllandsværk, as it has also been promoted in this debate. The combined heat and power plants are different in the country, and it makes sense to support the Nordjyllandsværk. The Nordjyllandsværket has chosen not to convert to biomass with state aid, as other cities have done. That's it, too, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen mentioned in his rapporteur's speech. Nordjyllandsværket is the last established coal power plant in Denmark. It is thus also the latest and most efficient coal power plant. It makes everything else equal, that the lifetime is longer and therefore the depreciation is also longer. That is why we have not been able to do what we have been able to do in other cities. Sixthly, it is unrealistic that we can find these reductions with a green tax reform. And if we want the green transition, yes, we need to look at other instruments as well. And seventhly, if we seriously want the green transition, well, then it requires that we care more about the climate in this Parliament, that we care more about the climate than we care about jealousy and equality, and that we don't want to pay to anyone just because others haven't. It's about the climate, and there we need to spend the money where it makes the best sense and where we get the most CO2 I hope that with these arguments that I have just presented, I can get the Folketing to consider my proposal and the good arguments. So I hope you will support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142331	Thank you very much. There are some brief comments. The first one is for Mrs. Signe Munk from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142338	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. As I said, SF shares the ambition to abolish coal at Nordjyllandsværket by 2025. And we also share the ambition that every ton counts, which is why I would like to hear something. Now we have to negotiate green tax reform in a moment, and I believe that, as I said, we can deliver some CO2 so I just have to hear: if the overall taxes and taxes increase as a consequence of our being able to reduce CO2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142427	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142430	I agree with the rapporteur that green tax reform can also provide some reductions in 2025, but we are sceptical about how much it can achieve. We have not yet received a proposal for this. And if you're going to be able to reach 4 million... t CO 2 And we have a double-sided ambition with the green tax reform: we want the green transition while getting richer as a society. And it also means that if this means that taxes are rising, it is becoming harder to operate in Denmark and we are reducing competitiveness, then it is not green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142516	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142517	It will be an interesting discussion to take. I just need to understand something in relation to the green room for manoeuvre of the Left: how can one in the Treasury see the difference between money to be used to pay for Nordjyllandsværket, and money to be used to pay for the general well-being of the citizens, i.e. nurses, educators, etc.? Honestly, isn't it just some green spin that you're saying there's a green space? For the reality is that the money in the treasury can be spent both on welfare and on the green. And if you take money away from welfare, then there's less of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142546	No, it's green spin that SF says they'll be green with this tax reform if you just have an ambition to raise taxes. Because that means that it will be harder to operate in this country and it will not be green. We are already a pioneering country, and we should like to become even greener. And if a green tax reform just means CO2 It's actually not green to do it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142616	The next question is Mrs Anne Paulin from the Socialist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142620	Thank you. This is an exciting debate we have today. The former Left Government cancelled a goal that we should have phased out the coal by 2030, so I am glad that, after all, this is not what we are discussing today, because the carbon phase is going to happen. And what is the question, then, is whether it should be the task of the state to pay for it in North Jutland, when you have solved it even elsewhere in the country. In Aalborg, as far as I know, the heating bill is on the national average and it may be that the rapporteur can confirm it, because I think the rapporteur lives in Aalborg. So what I would like to ask the rapporteur is: why is it reasonable that the state should pay for a task in Aalborg which has been solved elsewhere in the country? Why is there reasonableness in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142713	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142715	I would just like to start by commenting on the first point in the question, because that seems reasonable to me. I think time is different now. Well, we also have a climate minister who started by calling green tax reform such a Georg Gearless solution and the 70-percent goal of thinking of a figure. I hope that this position has been withdrawn since then. Then Mrs Paulin asks about district heating prices in Aalborg. Yes, it is true that they are around the national average. I can say that they are higher than in both Esbjerg and Odense, which we have touched on in this debate. And then, in Aalborg City Council, a decision has been made that heat prices should not rise, and that is probably reasonable enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142756	Here you go, Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142759	That may of course be sensible enough for those who live in the area, including the rapporteur himself, but for the rest of the country, where taxpayers will then have to pay for the bill in Aalborg, I do not know how sensible it is. What I would like to ask the rapporteur hastily is that when you say in the rapporteur's own party in Esbjerg, for example, that you should have some support for what has been done in Esbjerg, how do you relate to it in the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142832	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142834	We in the Left think it is reasonable enough that we look after the Danes' money throughout the country, and that is the answer to the first part of the question. As far as the second point is concerned, as I explained in my rapporteur's speech, there are two very different situations which cannot be compared. You have the opportunity here to actually support something that leads to a green transition which saves the climate of 3.3 million. t CO2 It is clear that if in some other cities you have some other measures that can save on CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142916	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no more inscribed for short remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220204142933	There is therefore no more to be done in this sitting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 8 February 2022 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
