ParlaMint-DK_20220301130003	The meeting is open. Member of the Folketing Marie Krarup has informed me on 26 February 2022 that she has resigned from the Danish People's Party Parliamentary Group. Marie Krarup is then outside the groups. Today there are the following reviews and because of the many submissions I will not read out the titles: Marcus Knuth (KF) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 94 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the strengthening of the rules for periods of employment in connection with the granting of citizenship in the event of breaches of the penal code and in the event of major fines), motion for a resolution No. B 162 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a fee by reapplication for Danish citizenship), Motion for a resolution No. B 165 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of permanent residence requirements in Denmark for at least 5 years before you can apply for Danish citizenship), motion for a resolution No. Β 172 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution replacing the fixed track system for permanent residence for residents aged 18-19 with a new temporary residence scheme), motion for a resolution No. Β 174 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an annual ceiling on the number of permanent residence permitsgranted) , motion for a resolution No. Β 175( Proposal for a Parliament resolution making permanent residence conditional for 10 years after theaward) , motion for a resolution No. Β 176( Proposal for a Parliament resolution on stricter rules for permanent residence andcrime ) and motion for a resolution No. Β 182( Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the simplification of Articles 22 to 24 of the Aliens Act onexpulsion). Christoffer Aagaard Melson (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 131 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution setting up a working group to improve the transport rules for horse owners). Mette Thiesen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 132 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the removal of the homeless from employment centres) and motion for a resolution No. B 143 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the initiation of an independent inquiry into the family law system). Stén Knuth (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 133 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the holding of an annual summit on disability policy) and motion for a resolution No. B 153 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the preparation of recommendations for a revised e-sport strategy). Lotte Rod (RV) and Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV): Motion for a resolution No. B 134 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the creation of an association of politicians and researchers in the Folketing). Lotte Rod (RV), Ellen Trane Nørby (V), Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF), Mai Mercado (KF) and Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF): Motion for a resolution No. B 135 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution establishing the partnership Together on Leisure). Ellen Trane Nørby (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 136 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on more freedom for the school boards of the primary schools) and motion for a resolution No. B 142 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the reform of the taximeter system for upper secondary education). Troels Lund Poulsen (V), Rasmus Jarlov (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 137 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of set-off as a result of a partner's income from work in a social pension and the abolition of the offsetting of own income from work in the basic amount and pension supplements of the national pension) and motion for a resolution No. B 138 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a new reform package for the Danish economy). Torst Schack Pedersen (V), Mona Juul (KF), Mette Hjermind Dencker (DF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Alex Vanopslagh (LA): Motion for a resolution No. B 139 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to ensure that ATP does not start new competitive activities in the private capital management market via the PEP VII Fund). Peter Skaarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 140 (Proposal for a resolution on the introduction of a quality system for shops), motion for a resolution No. Β 161 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the withdrawal of motor vehicles from gang criminals) and motion for a resolution No. B 171 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on consumer protection against fraud involving NemID and MitID). Fatma Øktem (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 141 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a national action plan to ensure greater security for women in nightlife). Britt Bager (KF) and Søren Pape Poulsen (KF): Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 144 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution introducing a separate provision on humiliation violence into the criminal code). Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 145 (Proposal for a resolution on aid rather than punishment for drug users), motion for a resolution No. Β 150 (Proposal for a resolution on the rights of victims of terrorism) and motion for a resolution No. B 167 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on legal claims for compensation to victims of a terrorist offence committed abroad). Rosa Lund (EL), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Stinus Lindgreen (RV), Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and Torsten Gejl (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 146 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the legalization of cannabis during a five-year trial period). Henning Hyllested (EL) and Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL): Motion for a resolution No. B 147 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution imposing a ban on car advertising and car advertising requirements). Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Bent Bøgsted (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 148 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting up of a working party to make proposals for improvements to the situation of Danish lorry drivers and road hauliers). Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 149 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on improving data security and ethics). Marie Bjerre (V) and Erling Bonnesen (V): Motion for a resolution No. B 151 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the development of a database on the climate impact of food, which could form the basis for a voluntary climate labelling scheme). René Christensen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 152 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the promotion of the Danish maritime heritage through the establishment of 10%. Unspoiled sea areas). Morten Dahlin (V) and Preben Bang Henriksen (V): Motion for a resolution No. B 154 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the development of a model of equality between police veterans and defence veterans). Dennis Flydtkjær (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 155 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the modernisation of company gift card legislation). Mona Juul (KF), Louise Schack Elholm (V), Dennis Flydtkjær (DF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and Jens Rohde (KD) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 156 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition of phantom tax). Preben Bang Henriksen (V) and Morten Dahlin (V): Motion for a resolution No. Β 157 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the decision-making powers in the field of electronic anklet processing) and motion for a resolution No. Β 158 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the provision of legal services by the State). Peter Seier Christensen (NB) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 159 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the organization of public energy planning based on the use of nuclear energy) and motion for a resolution No. B 180 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on increasing the defence budget to 2%) of bnp). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 160 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a strategy and plan for developing solar cells up to 2030). Mads Birdede (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 163 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the roll-back of the government's increase in public services to unemployed immigrants in particular). Susanne Zimmer (FG) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 164 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on plant-based and climate-friendly public canteens). Sikandar Siddique (FG) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 166 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a compulsory equal opportunities assessment of annual financial legislation), motion for a resolution No. Β 178 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the creation of a State Agricultural Fund) and motion for a resolution No. B 181 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the granting of new and additional climate aid). Heidi Bank (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 168 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a strategy for the supply of Danish raw materials to construction and industry). Mette Hjermind Dencker (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 169 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the right of residents of island students under 18 years of age). Mads Fuglede (V) and Christoffer Aagaard Melson (V): Motion for a resolution No. B 170 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution not to place future specialisyl centres in densely built areas). Britt Bager (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 173 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to ensure better conditions for the anonymisation of Danish police officers). Torsten Gejl (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 177 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the abolition and phasing out of beef and lamb in public canteens). Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Sikandar Siddique (FG): Motion for a resolution No. B 179 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to issue an indicative referendum on the legalisation of cannabis). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). With the agreement of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I propose that the motion for a resolution be put to the vote at the next voting time. B 131 is referred directly to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Member of the Folketing Erling Bonnesen (V) has informed me that he wishes to withdraw the following proposals: Proposal for a parliamentary resolution on a construction law for Nyborg Castle. B69). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130436	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130505	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130515	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 84 (S, V, RV, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG) and Liselott Blixt (UFG)) voted against 20 (SF, EL, ALT and 3 KF (by mistake)), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130547	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130555	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 92 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, DF, LA, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG) and Liselott Blixt (UFG)) voted against 12 (EL, NB and FG), abstained 1 (ALT). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130626	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130632	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 100 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, LA, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG) and Liselott Blixt (UFG)) voted against 4 (NB and FG), abstained 1 (ALT). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130701	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130713	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 100 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, LA, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG) and Liselott Blixt (UFG)) voted against 4 (NB and FG), abstained 1 (ALT). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130743	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130754	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 46 (V, KF, DF, NB, FG, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG) and Liselott Blixt (UFG)), against voting 58 (S, SF, RV, EL, LA and ALT), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130825	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130849	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 8 (DF, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG) and Liselott Blixt (UFG)), against voting 94 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and ALT), abstentions 2 (NB). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130929	The Minister for Employment has informed me that he wishes to accept Amendment No. Twenty-seven in the report back. Does anyone wish to accept this amendment? Since that is not the case, the amendment has lapsed and since no one wants a debate, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301130944	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-14, adopted by a majority (S, V, EL, SF, RV, KF, DF, LA and ALT), on amendment No. 1-14, adopted by a majority (S, V, EL, SF, RV, KF, DF, LA and ALT). I should like to make a few comments on Amendment No 32 which is not covered by the report by the Minister for Employment, on Amendment No 32. 15-26, adopted by a majority (S, V, EL, SF, RV, KF, DF, LA and ALT), on amendments No. 15-26, adopted by a majority (S, V, EL, SF, RV, KF, DF, LA and ALT). Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 28-31, joined by a majority (S, V, EL, SF, RV, KF, DF, LA and ALT)? They are adopted. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301131016	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301131024	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we're done with today's votes. I would ask that further talks be held outside the Parliamentary Chamber so that we can get started at first reading. I expect the talks that are still going on outside the Parliamentary Chamber to continue, because we are now embarking on the first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301131132	The debate is open. Sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301131137	Thank you for that, President. In the Social Democratic Party we support the amendments proposed by the bill, which are important to ensure that animal testing is carried out responsibly so that we can continue to use animals for scientific or educational purposes. This can be an important link in e.g. research into human diseases, testing the safety of new medicinal products or the side effect of chemicals. We see good sense in more textual implementation of the Animal Health Directive. It is good to specify the rules on where tests may be carried out and define when trials are considered to be completed. That is why we support the proposal in the Social Democratic Party. The draft law specifies the scope of the law, the conditions under which animals may be used for experiments, and requires the Animal Health Inspectorate to assess any application for the positivity of animal experiments before authorisation can be granted. And it is a requirement that experiments may only be carried out in the establishment or institution with which the licence holder is affiliated. In addition, it is also part of the draft law that companies and institutions which use animals for experimental purposes should designate one or more persons to be responsible for compliance with applicable animal testing rules, including, inter alia: to monitor the welfare of the animals, to ensure that staff have access to relevant information on the animals and that staff are adequately trained to have competence in this particular task. The bill also lays down a clear dividing line as to when an experiment is considered to be completed, according to which a veterinarian may make a professionally justified decision as to whether or not to keep the animal alive. Finally, it proposes to repeal the provision that animal testing may not be authorised in order to examine cosmetic production safety. The fact that the Cosmetics Directive has been repealed and replaced by the Cosmetics Regulation, which is now being applied in Denmark as well as in all other EU countries. With these comments on the first reading of L 128, the Social Democratic Party supports the draft law and we look forward to further consideration by the Committee on Trade and Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301131421	Thank you. There are no brief comments. I'm wondering if we could have the conversation between Lars Christian Lilleholt and Bertel Haarde muted a tiny bit, you hear it very clearly up here. Thank you. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301131442	Thank you. On the left side, I can also say right away that we support the bill. After all, as the title shows, it is a question of additional implementation of an animal testing directive. The previous rapporteur has already thoroughly examined what this is more specifically about, so I shall not repeat that, but just say that we support the bill in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301131503	There are no brief comments. This means that we move on to Mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301131511	Thank you. When I read Peter Singer's excellent book "Animal Liberation," I thought that the most violent chapters at all were those that dealt with animal testing. Humanity has a rather horrible history in the field of animal testing, and a great many of them have also been very unnecessary. There are many ways to test, and in many cases animals do not have to be involved at all, but they have been. They have been, because it has been cheaper or easier. It is sad because it means that animals become victims. One of the most glaring examples mentioned in this book, which we have discussed in the past, is this Draizetest, which has drowned corrosive substances in the eyes of live rabbits to assess how much damage it would cause to their sensitive eye tissue. It's just to give an example of what we humans have done to animals in this connection. I do not think I need to explain how violent it must be for a clamped animal to get corrosive substances into the eyes. And it's just to test something as trivial as cosmetic products, which it was in this case. It's very violent. But thanks to animal friends all over the world, we are developing globally where we are increasingly moving away from animal testing, especially some of the most unnecessary, for example. in relation to cosmetic products. That's really good. Legislation at EU level has also come some way, and that gives me hope. The proposal we are discussing here today is aimed at making such a more textual implementation of parts of the European Parliament and the Council directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes, namely the Animal Health Directive. The draft law reflects the fact that the Commission has asked Denmark to implement the Animal Health Directive more closely in terms of text. In the SF we look very positively at the fact that the Commission is working to ensure a uniform bottom level in Member States' implementation of animal testing rules. It should not be possible to achieve specific competitive advantages by deciding, as a single country, that animals may be abused a little more in various experiments. It's not gonna work. As I read, the revision of the Animal Health Act brings a small improvement compared to the Danish control of companies carrying out animal testing. It doesn't change the big thing, but SF basically welcomes all measures that improve animal welfare. That is why we can also endorse the proposal here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301131750	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Zenia Stamp, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301131800	Thank you. I can also say that the Radical Left supports the proposal, which is, of course, a response to a letter of formal notice from the European Union. The European Union has asked that we implement legislation from the European Union more textually and in favour of animals. The question is, of course, how much improvement there is for the animals here, perhaps a tiny bit, as the SF's rapporteur said, but I think that what we should particularly welcome concerns those countries that may not have such good animal welfare, so that we are going to make a very textual implementation in those countries too, means that we will have increased animal welfare. What often stands in the way of major improvements in the area of animal welfare, but also for climate, environment and so on, is EU legislation; it is when you cannot do it better than what is proposed. And that is why it is so gratifying that, in this case, it leads to a small improvement for us, but probably for a great improvement around the rest of the European Union. I think that is something that can be welcomed, even if it means that we are going to go for a walk in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301131910	Thank you very much to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301131929	Thank you. Animal welfare is very close to our hearts in the Enhedslisten, and it has always been. We demand animal welfare for both pets, experimental animals and farm animals. That is why I am pleased to see that we are now getting a better implementation of the Animal Health Directive, which provides for increased animal protection and definite improvements. So when you look into the text, it is an improvement; it is not a question of adopting a law that allows animal testing, but a bill that tightens up. However, the Enhedslisten agrees with the animal protection comments that naming national special rules as overimplementation is nonsense. It has an unnecessarily negative ring to it, especially when it is a question of complying with a directive such as this one. include that experimental animals must not experience intense pain or suffering, nor briefly. We want this term of overimplementation replaced by something better linguistically. These were our comments on the draft law that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301132035	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301132045	Thank you for that, President. When you start reading it, it is a serious matter in relation to a breach of the Treaty which the European Commission has taken up of its own motion, because we in Denmark have apparently neglected to make the text so that it meets any requirements. And it is really, really good to clarify it, and that is why, of course, we also support the proposal. It is essential that this should take place at least in the same way in the European Union, and we must, of course, focus on the things that are required to do just such a thing as the fact that companies and institutions where animals are used for experiments must be equipped for it, both in relation to having competent staff, and that at least one person is responsible for the welfare of animals. Of course, companies also have to register animal testing, and there are a number of other things that are quite excellent to implement, so we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301132151	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving on to Mr Beazley's report. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301132204	Thank you for that, President. Yes, many have said that this is an improvement on animal testing, and this has also been discussed with overimplementation. After all, we have decided, as the first country in the world, that animals are sensory beings, and therefore there is no doubt that we must have quite strict rules, even in relation to animal testing, if we are to comply with the legislation that we have adopted nationally. That is why, of course, we can vote in favour of what is here. I would also like to say in relation to the cosmetics regulation in the draft law that I have not been able to prepare questions here for the first reading, because what does it mean that something is being moved into another legislation? Does this mean that it can continue somewhere else, but not under this legislation? In principle, we do not believe that animal testing should be carried out in relation to the development of cosmetics, and we should simply put an end to this, and we should also do so in Denmark, as we have agreed that animals are sensory beings. So when we use animals for animal testing, and I don't think that's going to stop it, it really has to be something that is important for public health, so it has to be important when we do these experiments, and that is where we don't think cosmetics are part of it. So, with these comments, we naturally expect that, when we come to the third reading, we will be able to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301132330	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we move on to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301132340	Thank you. This bill is a proposal to amend the law on animal testing and the law on cloning and genetic modification of animals. I am not going to repeat the content, because it has already been mentioned. This is a textual change, and the consultation answers do not give rise to much speculation among the parties concerned, and New Citizens can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301132403	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and that is why it is now the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301132422	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their good speeches, good and constructive debate on the draft law, also for demonstrating the dedication and commitment to animal welfare that is very characteristic of Danish politics. Fortunately, this is something we have high on the agenda at home; it is positive. The overall aim of the bill, as several of the rapporteurs have also mentioned, is to carry out a more textual review of parts of the Animal Health Directive. The Animal Health Directive has been implemented in Danish law in the Law on Animal Tests, the Ordinance on Animal Tests and in the Law on Cloning and Genetic Modification of Animals, etc. The Animal Health Directive lays down rules on the protection of animals used for scientific or educational purposes. Denmark has received a letter of formal notice from the European Commission concerning the Danish implementation of the Animal Health Directive. In this respect, the Commission stated that, in the Commission's view, some of the provisions of the Directive were not properly transposed into Danish law. In this connection, the Commission made a number of comments. These comments are proposed in the amendments proposed by the draft law. In other words, we want to do as well as possible and to move in the right direction, to listen to the criticism that is, in line with it. The aim of the bill is therefore primarily to implement a number of amendments to the existing laws, so that the provisions of the Animal Health Directive are implemented more closely in Danish legislation exactly as the Commission has requested. The most significant amendments and clarifications covered by the draft law can be summarised as follows: firstly, the legislative proposal clarifies the scope of the law and specifies the purposes for which animals may be used for experimental purposes. Secondly, the draft law specifies that companies and institutions where animals are used for experiments must have one or more persons responsible for, inter alia: the supervision of the welfare of the animals, including that staff have access to relevant information on the animals and are adequately trained, etc. Thirdly, the draft law makes it clear that companies and institutions must be approved and registered by the Animal Health Inspectorate. Requirements concerning the content of the approval shall also be laid down. In addition, a person must be appointed from companies and institutions responsible for compliance with animal testing rules. Fourthly, the draft law makes it clear that there is a requirement that the Animal Health Inspectorate's assessment of applications should produce a positive result before animal testing can be authorised. Fifthly, the draft law specifies that authorisations may be granted for a maximum period of 5 years and that an amendment or renewal of the authorisation which may have an adverse effect on animal welfare must be approved by the Animal Health Inspectorate. Finally, the draft law provides that experiments may only be carried out in the establishment or institution with which the permit holder is affiliated and approved by the Animal Health Inspectorate. However, the requirement may be waived if it is scientifically justified. In addition, the draft law defines when an experiment is considered to be completed and requires a veterinarian or other competent person to decide, at the end of an experiment, whether the animal should be kept alive. These are important changes in order to respond to the European Commission's comments, but also to ensure a higher level of animal welfare. Finally, I would like to point out that the draft law is a more textual implementation of the directive, which is not expected to bring about significant changes in the management of the current rules, and then the proposed amendments will probably only give rise to minor changes and additions to the procedures. With these words, I look forward to the committee's consideration of the draft law and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301132832	I think we can also thank the Minister, but we have a technical problem. In fact, you cannot ask for a brief comment from the seats. The problem has not been resolved yet, but until it is resolved, I think we will make brief comments from up here. But since no one is standing up here, I assume that there are no brief remarks to the Minister, and so we thank the Minister. This also applies during the examination of the next legislative proposal. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301132912	The debate is open. First, it's sir. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301132924	Thank you for that, President. The main objective of L 132 is to create the legal basis for the proper implementation of a Danish derogation from this nitrates directive. As you know, the cattle exemption allows some Danish cattle farms to produce a little more nitrogen per year. hectares from manure instead of the previous limit of 170 kg per hectare. acres. We have had that exception since 2002 and it can be granted to farmers who meet a number of conditions in relation to the impact on the aquatic environment. The draft law makes it clear that sanctions against infringements of these conditions are, among other things, that farmers can no longer be deprived of the cattle exemption in the same year as in the past. And this is what the bill is putting in place so that it is in line with EU law. That is the main reason for the bill. In addition, there are a number of technical changes, and there is nothing else in that than that it should improve the existing regulation, all without touching on the level of environmental protection and the fact that the law alone has limited economic implications for business. Of course, in the social democracy we support livestock production in Denmark, which is environmentally sound. This is well in line with our commitment to reducing agricultural emissions of nitrogen and climate gases, which are the tracks we have jointly laid out with the Agriculture Agreement. That is why we also believe that there is good sense in ensuring that the implementation of Denmark's cattle exemption from the nitrates directive is correct.Of course it must be fully in place, also in relation to EU law. • Just as we see good sense in a number of technical changes for the use of fertilisers, which generally benefit both the environment and industry. That is why, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133120	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I understand that the technique should be in order again, but Mr. René Christensen, just in case, try to ask for the floor, because then we can see it? It's all right, and sir. René Christensen doesn't have to say anything now. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133145	Thank you. The Left also supports this bill. It is, of course, a question, as the previous rapporteur has already explained, of ensuring that the cattle exemption and a number of other changes are continued. The previous rapporteur has also thoroughly examined the more technical aspects of this, so I shall not go into that further. However, we only have a few questions in committee which we would like to deal with in relation to the phosphorous ceilings, etc., and to the extent that the Minister is aware of this, the Minister can, of course, deal with this, i.e. what is written here, with phosphorous ceilings, possible tightening and erosion prevention measures. But I also think that this is something that can be answered in the affirmative, because in here, of course, we must ensure production, because that is what this is all about. But on that basis, the Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133233	Thank you. There are no brief comments. This means that we move on to the SF, which I see has changed the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133242	Thank you. What the proposal is about has been very well explained, so I shall not go into details about it. The SF also supports the proposal. I sat with the consultation note, and I was pleased to see the Danish Nature Conservation Association meeting very much in terms of their criticism of it. However, there are still some issues left in relation to it, and they come from the Organic Landsforening. Because, as you can see, when the amendment of the law is in place, the Minister can make exceptions in relation to manure consumption in the organic greenhouses. The question then is whether or not to do so. But there's so little of this about waiting until the research is in place in 2023 to make these exceptions. That is actually what I think is the question when you read it through, i.e. what you do until then. Is there a challenge in relation to the ecological greenhouses? Of course, I hope there won't be. I look forward to the Minister's reply to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133345	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133356	Thank you. I'll be brief, too. We can also support the proposal, which is of a rather technical nature, as was the previous proposal. Of course, we also have the same attention points that the SF rapporteur had to highlight. We are, of course, looking forward to this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133416	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133429	Thank you. Sometimes you have some legislative proposals where you are told that it is very technical. So you think there's something in it? Recently, we had a fertiliser proposal in which it turned out that there was an amendment to the draft law which I thought made sense. That is why we must never rule out the possibility that something might happen through a committee procedure. When I look at this, I think that we are in the process of complying with the nitrates directive. It's gonna be a tough job. It's gonna be hard. We will need some very large reductions in order to achieve this. How do we make this easier? And could adjusting the cattle exemption be one of the handles to achieve nitrogen reductions? In fact, I think that is essential to look at, so that you do not just implement to the maximum. Is it not possible here to implement it at a lower fertiliser level so that it can contribute to the nitrogen reductions that we need to work with seriously? So I would like a committee procedure to be clarified before our final position on the legislative proposal is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133543	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133551	Thank you for that, President. We support the proposal, but we also have a number of clarification issues which we hope will be dealt with in committee. After all, the cattle agreement is an excellent rule for the time when cattle farmers typically have some crops. It can be large areas of grass; it can be maize, which is harvested very late in the growing season, and it can be for example. beet, which is also harvested very late. This means that you have a much longer period of absorption during the growing season of the nutrients that you add in the fields. If you compare it to, for example. a cereal crop which is harvested very early, so this longer growing season makes it possible for the crops to absorb the nutrients. That is why it is an excellent rule, which does not threaten the leaching of nutrients precisely because you have this crop choice on cattle houses that you have. However, as I have said, we support the proposal from the outset, and then we have some questions in relation to, among others. This thing with administrative fines that we don't like very much. There may also be several things that we would like to ask about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133718	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133732	Thank you for that, President. What we are allowing here is, of course, to allow us to introduce the derogation that we have in relation to the cattle exemption. Of course, we in the Danish People's Party are in favour of this, namely that we can continue with what we know. And then it is important that when you get the opportunity, you implement it correctly. We'll just follow that. So, of course, we can support the legislative proposal that is here, namely L 132.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133759	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133807	The main purpose of the draft law is to provide a legal basis for implementing the cattle exemption conditions that a cattle farm which is fined for having violated a condition of an authorisation to allocate up to 230 kg nitrogen from manure per year. hectares shall be refused the application for authorisation the following year. In addition, the draft law contains a number of authorisations in relation to phosphorus discharges. There are some points of interest in the consultations from among others. Agriculture & Food around fines and time limits for consultation. But as a starting point, New Citizens can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133845	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is now the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301133858	Again, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and for their support for this proposal. As the rapporteurs have said, the draft law is technical. The main purpose of the bill is to properly implement Denmark's derogation from the EU Nitrates Directive. This is the exception that we have had since 2002 and that is called the cattle exemption. The cattle exemption allows Danish cattle farms to spend up to 230 kg nitrogen from manure per year. hectares instead of the general limit of 170 kg. And, of course, this only happens on application and a number of conditions in relation to the aquatic environment. My ministry has become aware that the way in which we sanction violations of this exception is not in line with EU law, and we must of course have that in place. It is a bit technical, but it is a question of sanctions for an infringement which means that a farmer cannot be allowed to use the derogation in the following year. That with the following year is central here, because as the Danish rules are now, farmers are deprived of the opportunity to use the derogation in the same year as the infringement. This will be corrected by the new legislative proposal, which means that we can issue an amendment to the regulation, which will enter into force on 1 August 2022. That is therefore the main reason for the draft law. The draft law also contains a number of other technical changes to the current regulation on the use of organic fertilisers, and they will generally benefit the environment and industry, so I will not go into that in more depth here. With these words I shall look forward to, I hope, a positive and constructive committee dealing with this bill, and I would like to thank you once again for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301134057	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301134104	Thank you. When I sit and read about it, especially the consultation note, I think there are some questions. It may well be that the Minister will say that it is better suited to a written answer, and there is no harm in that. But since it is now possible to relax the rules for the application of organic manure other than manure in, for example, the organic greenhouses, why is it not possible, with these rules, to relax the rules for manure in these greenhouses, which is what is needed, that is to say, which would be the most natural thing for organic farming? Are there any political considerations behind this, or is that something the Minister would like to answer if I put the question in committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20220301134145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301134147	It may well be that, in order to get the precise answer, we need to have it around the office. What I understand is that these organic greenhouses have a very wide exemption, but if there is a barrier, we will of course look at it. I understand that there is a broad possibility of derogation and that this applies until it should have been changed. But let us have the question in writing so that it can be answered as accurately as possible, because that obviously needs to be looked at.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301134214	Thank you. That did not give rise to any further questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301134229	The debate is open. I'm sorry, sir. Anders Kronborg, but we start with the minister, as it is a citizen's proposal that we now have to deal with. Yeah, that's how you get trumped up. Here you go to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301134319	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, too, for keeping track of the procedure. When there are many different ways of dealing with things in the Danish Parliament, you have to keep your tongue straight in your mouth, but thank you for that. First of all, as the minister responsible for this area, I would like to thank the organisers of this citizens' proposal. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament who have tabled the motion as a motion for a resolution. It is a good thing to have this very important discussion of this problem, in my opinion, serious. I very much understand the intentions behind the proposal, and I share the view that it is quite wrong when Danish citizens are lured by cynical moneymen to buy puppies reared in so-called puppy factories. That is unacceptable, it is totally wrong. It is in many ways an unsympathetic and unreasonable situation that we are faced with here, and my clear position is that we should have done something about it. It is the case that last year, just before Christmas, we came up with a number of initiatives in this area because we think action should be taken now. Something must happen; it does not work the way it is at the moment. And there I would like to highlight at least three concrete initiatives we have taken by the government to tackle this problem: firstly, we are working hard for new EU rules on dog farming and trade. I felt a great deal of support for this when I presented the subject at the Council meeting on 21 February, that is to say on the second Monday, when I raised it. Fortunately, there was really, really strong support for the Danish line among all the ministers who took the floor, and in particular the German minister, the new green German minister, Cem Özdemir, emphasised that Germany is entirely behind Denmark. So there is real pressure here. Secondly, we need to strengthen communication. We need to dress potential, future dog owners even better to buy dogs, and we will do so, among other things. safe via the website •Ready for dogs and social media and also in a number of ads. This is how we've long had a website about these things, where you can read a lot of useful things about what to have prepared for when buying a dog, but there's a huge potential in getting more people to know about this website, so you just stop by there before you go out and buy a dog and possibly get cheated by people who don't have clean flour in the bag. Thirdly, we need to cooperate with relevant organisations • it may be the Danish Kennel Club, it may be the Animal Protection for • so that we can make it easier to find this information, for example. wants to buy a race dog, or if you want a dog from a shelter. And then we would very much like to look at the possibilities of strengthening the level of sanctions in the dog sector. So if some people do not have pure flour in the bag, someone cheats on the weight, then we would like to look at whether there should be a harder form of sanction. So much of this proposal is something we're going to meet. The whole intention to solve this problem is entirely agreed by the government. When we are a little sceptical about simply taking the proposal as it is, it is because there are at least three challenges to the resolution as it stands here. We fully agree, as I have said, that something needs to be done. We are doing the same. However, there are also some challenges linked to the proposal, which means that we need to find some other solutions. Let me briefly highlight at least three of these challenges in this area: the first challenge is that, as I said, it is EU rules that are important in this context. The proposal lays down national rules, but they cannot be used to reject dogs that comply with EU rules. These are EU-harmonised rules here. It is a bit boring that it is, but that is the way it is; so, even if we wanted to, we wouldn't be able to do this without bringing the rest of the European Union with us. That is also what we are doing, and that is what I received support for here on the other Monday. You're on the ball in the EU. EU requirements include, for example: requirements relating to rabies, certificate and fitness for transport, but there is no guarantee that dogs entering the country are healthy and healthy on all heads and edges. So the new proposal does not solve the problem at its core: the introduction of puppies in Denmark, who are ill or suffer mentally, and we cannot ensure this by national rules alone. So we have to have EU rules in place there, and that is what we are in the process of getting. In fact, the proposal is considered to be in conflict with EU law, because it will restrict freedom of establishment and the internal market so there is also a challenge there. That is why we are on the EU track, where I have great support from EU colleagues in making something common European Union. In addition, as no. 2 is another challenge of the proposal that it can prevent sales between private individuals. The proposal will mean that the puppies will first have to go via a shelter to get to their new owner. So it will not be possible if a private person wants to sell a puppy to another private person. There may be many reasons why this is needed, and it will be good for a puppy to be able to move quickly to a new owner and get social contact. So this thing about that, I think we all know from our associations that people who have got puppies with their dog want to sell to neighbors and family members and others, they suddenly aren't allowed anymore. I can mention from my own family that our Golden retriever had two puppies. One puppy we chose to keep, and the other puppy moved to some of my daughters' friends, so that we could have daily contact with this puppy too. Such a solution would not be possible if this proposal were implemented. You won't be able to sell to family members and others, so that's also a problem. Thirdly, the proposed rules will be difficult to control in practice. There is currently no requirement for all puppy buyers to document where they have bought the puppy and under what conditions. So can we say: can we not simply introduce such a requirement? There it is, then, that what I hear from those who are sitting with it is that it will involve a very extensive control, as there are 60,000-70,000 newly registered dogs in the Danish Dog Register each year. The vast majority of these are puppies, so it is considered not to be possible in practice. Fortunately, however, there are other ways of resolving the problem. That is what I started with, but let me repeat: we need new common EU rules in this area. As I said, I have called for the issue to be addressed, given that the Commission is still working on a review of the EU animal protection rules, and there was therefore support for this at the meeting here the other day. The aim is to put an end to the unsympathetic puppy trade that is taking place throughout the European Union. Then we need better and more information for the buyers. After all, no one wants to support the unscrupulous puppy factories. When you do this, it is probably about ignorance and lack of information, so we need to strengthen that and we are doing so too. In fact, you can already go into Facebook and other social media and see that there is much more focus on what to pay attention to when buying a dog. There are links to the website • Ready for dogs where you can go to read these things. You scale up the efforts of the FDA on Facebook and other social media so that you are constantly made aware that you have to think about when buying a dog and that there are some things you have to take into account before doing so. So we strengthen communication and information in cooperation with all relevant parties. Finally, we will look at the level of sanctions in the dog sector. In short, then, I and the government are in complete agreement that something needs to be done. The current situation is unacceptable. We have a number of solutions that we are in the process of implementing. We launched them before Christmas, and we are in the process of implementing them. But the proposal itself, as it stands here, has some inherent problems that we must try to avoid; but, having said that, I would like to thank the organisers of the citizens' proposal for putting this important issue on the agenda. And we're gonna do something. We accept the whole intention and many of the parts of the proposal, but there are some small things that mean that we have to reject it because they will create new and other problems. But thank you to the promoters; I look forward to a good debate. Let us stop the mess that happens in the trade in dogs, in puppy factories and other places where too many dogs are miserable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301135247	There is a brief comment. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301135252	Thank you. Yeah, well, it's a good thing we have citizens' proposals, because many times these citizens' proposals can put a little fuss in the rest of us in here and the minister nods a lot. I just want to hear about a time horizon for this, where I am really worried when the Minister starts to mention common EU rules and so on. etc. After all, we have heard that on many other points in the whole area of animal welfare, animal transport and so on. etc. It's not really gonna happen. It's a year-long process. I would very, very much like to be positive about this because I think it's so important, but I'm very worried about it being the kind of jelly pot you put it in. So I'm gonna have to ask for a time frame.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301135336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301135337	First of all, a big thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for her great commitment in this area. It is not least because of Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's consultation a few months ago that we have put this subject more clearly on the agenda and that we are now looking at what we can do to strengthen the sanctions in this area. It was an issue that came up on one of the consultations that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard had called for. Unfortunately, in relation to common EU agreements, time will pass. I don't think we can cheat there. Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard is so truncated that she knows about these things. It's gonna take a long time. What we can hope for is that some of the individual countries will also start taking initiatives. I can mention to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard that my Portuguese colleague took the floor and spoke warmly for better conditions in this area. And while we are waiting for EU rules to be implemented, I have the hope that she will go home and get some of the rules that are missing in Portugal corrected. That's one of them. There, we see some of the problems. My Greek colleague was also in support of this. So we need it as soon as possible. I will press every meeting for us to have common EU rules, but in the meantime we must hope that individual countries will do something for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301135445	Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301135447	I would like to say that, with regard to the Greek colleague, I think it is a very good idea, because unfortunately I myself see this as a success, so it is in southern Europe, where you have all these street dogs, which are also sometimes passed on, some with success, but that is unfortunately few, and others to an uncertain fate because they are ill. But that's the way it is. I can only say, and I shall then mention this in my rapporteur's speech, that it is not something that is forgotten. I mean, I'm really, really inclined to believe that with the European Union. Just the animal transports, I don't have any figures at all on how many years it's been going on, but it's creepy for many years. And every time we have it for debate in the Parliamentary Chamber, reference is made to common EU rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301135526	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301135527	Again, I would like to thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. I understand the scepticism there is, because sometimes it just takes too long and you get frustrated and sad about these processes. However, we are pushing over and over again, and it is not just waiting for EU rules as we do. We also engage with a big offensive to inform the Danes about what to pay attention to when buying a dog. The Danish Food Authority has a campaign with an entire website dedicated to information. You cooperate with animal protection organizations, with kennel clubs and with others, so that the Danes can get as much information as possible in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301135604	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301135604-2	Thank you. And thanks to the Minister for putting so much soul into creating good conditions for our pets... our dogs in this case. The minister mentions that there are some problems in being able to implement this citizen's proposal, but if you say that it's only about foreign puppy factories, which I think is the spirit of this and this is primarily about, then you're beyond a whole lot of things, compared to what you can do here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301135634	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301135635	What I can only refer to is what my lawyers, my officials, have to say about problems in relation to this. They are sceptical that one can end up where something as common as dealing dog between family members, neighbors and others, which I referred to with my own story, could be challenged or impossible if these demands are introduced. Finally, there is also the fact that there are Danes who have an interest in buying, for example. street dogs from Greece, and there we can also get into problems in reaching out to them if there are these demands. That's why we need to know what we're doing before we just do it, and so there are some challenges in this. What we are doing is taking a number of other measures to ensure that, overall, we get a higher level of animal welfare for our dogs, and that is the most important thing, and that is that the problem is resolved, that we eliminate the puppy factories, that we stop this mess that has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301135735	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and then we start the rapporteur's round. And now it's gonna be sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301135748	Thank you, Mr President. I think it was because of impatience that I came up so quickly on the platform of the Danish Parliament, because it is really a very good citizen's proposal which lies here and for which I have great sympathy, and I also share several of the intentions. I know that there has been a great deal of work, a great deal of enthusiasm and a great deal of enthusiasm both in informing us about the citizens' proposal, but indeed also in gathering together the many, many thousands of signatures that make us stand here today discussing this important issue. So I would like to start by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution and also thank you for the dialogue that I myself have had constructively with the authors of the motion for a resolution in fact several meetings. What this is all about is something as disgusting as criminal backers who earn money from luring families into buying a pet that is really supposed to be in the middle of the family, but then you find out that they have had some wretched upbringing conditions. The pictures that I have seen are at least something that brings tears to the eyes, for they are animal factories in Eastern Europe, where these dogs live in awkward conditions, in cold conditions, in small conditions, and when these puppies are born, they are quickly taken from their mother, and like any other sensory being, they have in childhood, the few hours after birth, the need for the mother's safe environment, and that means that such a puppy is injured when it reaches a family. It can be illness, it can also be psychological, and it means that what the family had dreamed of, namely that the dog should be part of the family, unfortunately cannot be done. It remains to be seen who has earned many thousands of dollars by manipulating a family that was in very good faith. That is why we also welcome the fact that the Minister has already launched various initiatives, among others. promotions in connection with the Blue Newspaper, Yellow and Free, where you will find these ads. Nor is there any doubt that our intention is that we should indeed follow this area very, very closely. I know that there are parties in the Folketing that have further proposals on how to improve these measures within the existing legislation, and I will be willing to discuss this in committee, because in fact I think it is very, very important that the animals sold in Denmark are also animals that have had a decent life as young people and can subsequently be properly and well included in a family. Therefore, I am also pleased that good cooperation has already been established with the Animal Protection, Danish Kennel Club and the Veterinarian Association in relation to the update of the website Ready for dogs, because it is in fact also the consumers who have a responsibility here. I fully recognise that this can be difficult for consumers, because as I have been handed down and told, this is a cynical hound that is really capable of manipulation, and it is actually very difficult to tell whether you are standing by, if you may say so, an established kennel, or whether you are standing by some of these guys. I also believe that we must follow very closely the judgments handed down in relation to some of these cases, because we know that this crime is actually one of the major ones in Denmark. I have heard that this is supposed to be the fourth largest way of making profits for the criminal environment in Denmark, and it is clear that if it is, we have an interest in putting this into practice. However, I am of the opinion that what is quite right when it is so much, and when it is not just Denmark, this is a problem for which we must look internationally, and I am glad that the Minister has already raised it with his European colleagues and welcomes the fact that it seems that turbos are being put on the idea that a good, constructive and proper solution can be found in relation to this whole problem. I would say that this proposal is welcome and I look forward to the further discussion of the proposal. It is difficult to approve it in its existing form when it is against the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301140302	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301140317	Thank you. In the Left, we are very much in line with the speech that the Minister made here a short while ago in relation to this whole matter, and also with the measures that the Minister pointed out. Animal welfare must be in order, it is important. I think we all think so, and I think we are all on that line. First of all, I would also like to thank the many people who are involved in this citizens' proposal. It is gratifying that so many people care about animal welfare, and it is also something that there is a great focus on here in the Folketing. In the Left, we agree a long way along the way with many of the intentions that are also listed in the citizens' proposal, and we agree that there must of course be orderly conditions when it comes to animals. These are living beings, and therefore the requirements must also be great for those who work with animals, and in this situation it is also in relation to puppies, and of course we all distance ourselves from these terrible conditions, which we have also seen examples of. Most of those who trade in puppies also take pride in having a high level of animal welfare and quality. They have a high professionalism and great love and care for the dogs, and that is why they have chosen, we can then say, to work with it. Unfortunately, there have also been stumbled vessels, and we are very much in agreement with them. Unfortunately, in this motion for a resolution, there are some points and some points which the Minister also mentioned, which make it possible to say that things are not exactly the same all the way. Firstly, the proposal runs counter to the rules of EU law on the free movement of goods and services. It will be difficult to implement this citizens' proposal in a meaningful way and at the same time to comply with the EU rules which, by the way, we enjoy very much. Secondly, the citizens' proposal will make it very difficult for individuals to sell a dog to, for example, a family member, as the Minister has just said, and we think that would be a pity, and I do not think that is the intention of the proposers either. These are some other angles that are problematic here, but in the Left we'd like to work on these intentions that have been. However, on the basis of an overall assessment, as I have explained here, we cannot support the citizens' proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301140545	There is a brief comment on Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301140549	If we do this illegally, it has nothing to do with freedom of movement. There are, of course, and fortunately for that, several things which must not be allowed to cross the border simply because it is illegal. These are weapons, drugs, etc. If this is gonna be illegal, it's gonna have to fall into the same category. I guess you can't just say that because of free movement we can't change this. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220301140616	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301140617	As I also indicated in the rapporteur's speech, there are a number of things in this that we very much agree with, and whether it is about dogs on one side or the other of the country's borders, animal welfare must be in order. It's not. But we can say that animal welfare must be in order. We fully agree with that. However, when this goes against the general rules of the European Union, it is at least one of the arguments that we cannot support the citizens' proposal as it stands. However, we fully agree that animal welfare must be in order and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301140650	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for another brief comment? No, thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301140703	Thank you for that and also thank the 50,000 citizens who have signed this proposal. I think it is fantastic to see how much the citizens of Denmark care about the life and well-being of dogs. I do not think it has been particularly nice as rapporteur to have to look into this problem, because there is no doubt that it is a real and also very comprehensive problem that we are talking about: that dogs are being reared under poor conditions and imported illegally into Denmark. As one who grew up with a dog himself, it's heartbreaking to watch videos from such puppy factories. The dog's needs are in no way met, and they are seen as a product rather than as the individuals we know they are. In addition to the great suffering caused to animals, illegal import of puppies also poses the risk of spreading infectious diseases and the risk of biting from poorly socialised dogs. It is not possible to determine exactly how many puppies are being trafficked illegally across Europe's borders, as many of the puppies are being bred in Eastern Europe and then transported to Western Europe, where they are being resold outside the spotlight of the authorities. But on the basis of the cases that have taken place, it seems that the illegal import of a dog can earn 10,000 to 20,000 kroner. per Puppy. And so the temptation to engage in illegal imports is quite great for some. That is why very strict legislation is also needed in this area. I know that there are quite a few rules and bets that address the problem. The Social Democrat rapporteur has also spent a great deal of time emphasising this today. For example: the rules have been tightened in relation to the commercial import of animal trade, and there are also today specialised police units and a travel team in the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority working with the area. They are also assisted by volunteer investigators from Animal Protection. But it's obviously not enough to slow down this illegal import. That is why, in the SF too, we believe that this citizens' proposal should be used as an opportunity to turn every stone to see what can be done further to deal with this problem, especially when we can now understand that the citizens' proposal as it stands here is an EU-unlawful one, because then we have to put some energy into finding some other solutions. I agree with the essence of what lies in the citizens' proposal, but we need to implement something that is possible within EU law. Therefore, in the SF, we should use this citizens' proposal to implement some progressive policy in this area, and I would like to make some suggestions. We could, for example. make registration compulsory for anyone selling dogs. We could also examine the possibility of imposing fines to buy dogs from unregistered sellers, so you also have to check for yourself if you want to be a dog owner. We can tighten controls at borders in order to ensure that all dogs entering Denmark have the required papers, i.e. the EU pet passport and veterinary certificate. We can strengthen the efforts of the police and the FDA in relation to the illegal import of dogs. We can increase information efforts in relation to potential livestock buyers, as the Minister also mentioned earlier. And then we can tighten up EU rules, which are perhaps the most important thing at all. This may be slow, but it may also have the most effect on dog farming, not least the requirements for Member States' controls. So I hope that the government will take the intentions of this citizens' proposal very seriously and that we can have a good process between the parties to tighten up this legislation, because we will not accept these puppy factories. We must put in place legislation to deal with the problem. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301141101	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301141115	Thank you for that and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. This is a very good example of how good it is that we have had citizens' proposals, because this is a problem which has not been taken sufficiently seriously in here, nor by the authorities. Because since it is now the third largest black, illegal economy, in addition to arms and drugs, and probably some of the same ones are involved, it is because we have not taken the situation seriously at all and perhaps have not been aware at all that it existed. I must honestly admit that I was somewhat surprised to see both the conditions under which these puppies grow up, but also that it has reached that extent without us being aware of it in here and without us having acted on it. That is why I very much welcome the proposal. I also very much welcome the Minister's initiatives. I am also listening to the fact that the proposal in its present form cannot be implemented, but I think that we can find a place to end this matter which goes beyond what the Minister has put forward, but which, of course, does not lead us to vote in favour of something that apparently does not comply with EU law; I would just say that we often experience it in here when we have good ideas. And I am a huge supporter of the European Union, so it should not be an EU criticism in general. The previous legislative proposal we were discussing was, in fact, about raising the standard of animal welfare, and it was through EU legislation. So the European Union is, in fact, usually a lever for animal welfare, including in Denmark, although we often make every possible idea that we are the best in the world. So the European Union is often a co-player, but it is sad about these cases where the European Union suddenly becomes a barrier to effective action against an obvious major problem. That is why I am very much in line with the SF rapporteur. I think we should find out whether we have other options, in other words where we go further than campaigns, information, etc. I also know the Minister well enough to know that it will be viewed positively in this way, I think, so it should not be seen as a criticism of the Minister, but just as a wish that we go further. I also read the Minister's rapid response to the three points as a signal that the government is taking this seriously, but I also believe that we can get the government longer, and that may be by putting more money into control, lifting sanctions, making fines, perhaps for those who then buy these illegally imported puppies, etc. etc. But for us here today, the signal is clear: we probably cannot vote in favour because it does not comply with EU law, but that should not prevent us from doing more, because we believe that we can do more, and we can also do more radical things than information campaigns. We can introduce controls, we can impose sanctions, and perhaps we can also impose bans in another way. In any case, we are very prepared to look at that. So this is a signal that we are looking forward to the committee reading and hope that we can come up with even more than the Minister has put forward and an even harder line in relation to this serious issue. And thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for bringing it into the Chamber. We are very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301141458	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301141520	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much to the authors of the motion for a resolution for illuminating this issue, because we have a problem that clearly shows the stories. It is quite a terrible thing, if it is the case that you operate with some puppies who are traumatized and thus cannot be included as the happy and happy center of the family. Unfortunately, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it stands in its entirety because it is an EU substance. We should not therefore be so nervous about the fact that we have dealt with earlier today a proposal on animal testing, in which the European Union had actually criticised Denmark, in relation to the fact that we had not implemented it sufficiently, so that it was clear how to protect the test animals. However, there are some problems with EU law, the free movement of goods, and that is why we have to vote against it. However, as the Minister has so well explained, there are initiatives on the way which are making a great effort to simply raise standards in this area so that we avoid the boring situations that are being reported. There is also the problem in relation to the situation, if your dog has now been visiting the neighbor and then puppies get out of it so that you have to make sure to get rid of them properly. And then there is something that I just wondered about, and it is in relation to breeding lines, that if you only breed in Denmark, you may be able to run into some problems that may be inappropriate and where it may be sensible enough to get some new blood into the breeding. But there is a problem here, and it is driven by money and greed; there are large amounts at stake, and that is why, of course, we must also ensure that we improve the quality of this whole sector, so that we can be sure that when people acquire a dog, they will have a happy and happy member of the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301141745	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which means that we move on to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301141755	Thank you. As has been said before, and I would also like to repeat this, I think that citizens' proposals are a very, very good idea, and I am glad that the Danish People's Party has been involved all the way in introducing citizens' proposals, and that in fact all parties now agree that this is a good idea. This is certainly one of the better citizens' proposals in our view. There may be citizens' proposals that you will be against, but we are clearly in favour of this. B-59 or more oral: Freya's law is another citizen's proposal, which has emerged from at least 50,000 citizens who have signed this excellent proposal, simply because they want the Folketing to deal with it and then, of course, to get it adopted. So many thanks to the initiators of this proposal! A law that is passed will put an end to the terrible foreign puppy factories that import dubious puppies to the Danes and where too many of these dogs are not healthy and proper dogs at all. These are dogs that have been bred or produced solely because of the desire for a dirty profit from cynical backers, so people who have no interest whatsoever in the dogs, but only have to make money. At the other end are a number of Danes with puppies who have one and the other serious problem. Some have to go through a long-term animal treatment, others have to be killed. It is quite grotesque that we have to legislate on it at all, but when it is necessary, yes, we will of course vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, which is intended to lead to a genuine legislation against this terrible phenomenon. Let us legislate so that we really prove that we are on the animal side. And then it's fine what the minister says: it just can't be done now, and there's the European Union, and oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, But as was also announced by Mr. Per Larsen, then, there are also some things where we stand up to the European Union and say: we simply will not accept that. I think we can do that here, and in any case this is a citizen's proposal, a resolution which should not be adopted with the wordings contained in the proposal itself. The government can decide that on the basis of the intentions of this proposal. After all, it is not the case that the government should come up with a bill that says directly: yes, that is the way it should be! And then I really miss the answer that there are other things than a campaign. Campaigns are fine, but there is no doubt that much has been said. Well, this is a very, very well-known proposal. People who have been behind it have really made a huge effort to make it known. There are a lot of people who know what Freya's law is. So it's okay with a campaign; let's just get some more, but it's not like people are totally ignorant, at all. So I'm just interested in how to do it and, as the Radical Left said, how can we do it? That is what Mrs Zenia Stampe said, who, in reality, was very much inclined to vote 'yes' but, since you are the parliamentary basis of the government, you vote 'no'; that is how it is but who kept weaveing a little about how it could be done. I would like to put that question more specifically to the Minister: how can we do it from this point of view, so that it will be very soon and not something we simply put in a jar, like so many other proposals, where unfortunately we have to say that we have to wait for the European Union and that it cannot be done, etc. etc.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301142128	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301142137	This resolution is a citizen's proposal concerning the so-called puppy factories. There are cynical people who make money in puppy factories where they prey on the mother and often sell the puppies when they are very small. There have been examples of this in Denmark, but often these are factories abroad where puppies are imported into Denmark and sold on. New Citizens will stop the factories on Danish soil and imports from the puppy factories on foreign soil. For the good of all, we, as legislators, must protect first and foremost the dogs and then, of course, also the dog owners. In New Citizens we want to prevent an industry in which the welfare of the dog is not safeguarded, where the target is as many puppies as possible bred with as little expense as possible, and that is exactly what is happening in these puppy factories. Here the seller is not interested in where the puppy goes, nor in informing the new owners about the puppy's needs and what it requires of the owner. The puppy factories are only interested in your money. Puppy factories can and must be avoided. The measures proposed in this citizens' proposal are sensible. The puppy's future family should only be able to buy the puppy directly from a breeder, and only approved internationals can undertake to communicate puppies from animal welfare cases further if re-location is required. In this way, we can help from the legislators to prevent the import of puppies from the many European puppie factories by making illegal the purchase and resale of puppies by third parties. That is why we support the New Citizens' Bill, also known as "Freya's Law'. There has been discussion about whether we can implement this one by one, and we are, of course, prepared to look at that, and if we cannot do that, then we have to find some other way to find a solution to this totally unacceptable problem. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301142341	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301142353	In the Greens we believe that all animals have the right to a good animal life, to be treated properly, and in particular we believe that pets have the right to a good animal life and to be treated with love. Dog owners see their pets as part of the family, while the foreign owners of puppy factories see them as a lifeless product, as a soda can and something they need to make money on the most money possible. In the puppie factories there are puppies walking in bars, puppies lying like chickens under hatch lamps, puppies walking outdoors in cages in their own feces in the extreme cold, without contact to their dog mother and without contact to humans. In one study it is estimated that 40%. of all illegally traded puppies die before their 5th birthday. It is tragic for the puppies, but I also think that everyone who is or knows someone who is a family of animals knows how hard it is to lose a little new dog. 15% of the dogs either become ill or die within the first year. In addition, of course, there are also many of the dogs that get a disturbed behavior and get a bad start to their lives, and thus do not become the dogs that they should be, and the dogs that the dog owners had intended to buy with the temperament that the animal breeds now have. That is why we also consider it unacceptable that puppies should be mass-produced and that they should be dealt with illegally in the European Union. They are bred in a harmful way that makes them special. These puppies die early and often get sick. It's bad for both the puppies and the animal owners, and it's expensive. In addition, the dogs imported from the puppy factories can carry infectious diseases and this can be dangerous for our public health. We have just been in that situation. We must be better at preventing the illegal trade in puppies and, in order to prevent an already illegal practice, we need better safety mechanisms. The citizens' proposal for a tightening up of legislation provides that, with few exceptions, puppies should not be traded via intermediaries, and that is a fine idea. In addition, there is also a safety mechanism in which the buyer is allowed to see the puppies and the dog mother several times before buying a puppy. There are a lot of people who visit their future dog and make the dog part of the family and look forward to getting it. They don't have that option if the dog gets through a middleman. You make sure that the puppies have had a good start on their lives, that they have had a decent accommodation to live in, and that it is not their own feces that are their roommates. We also need to ensure that future dog owners are better informed so that they choose correctly so that they choose the right breed, but also so that they choose an animal that has had the right start of life. In the Free Greens, we support the citizens' proposal, because we want to safeguard the right of animals to a dignified life, and if it should be adopted, I think that it is the government's and our task to implement it within the EU's legal requirements. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301142732	Thank you. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate has ended I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301142742	At the beginning of today's sitting, motion for a resolution No. B 131 by mistake referred directly to the Committee on Transport. Instead, I would suggest that the resolution be referred directly to the Committee on the Environment and Food. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301142814	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Sea, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301142821	Thank you for that, President. As the agenda is drawn up, it seems that L 131 is the shortest, least comprehensive item on the agenda. However, I do not think that is the case. L 131 is a bill that is awaited with longing, as there have been calls from several sides for better rules on accessibility for groups with particular challenges in our society. The Social Democratic Party must recognise the government in order to put forward the proposal for accessibility in good time before its entry into force, which is in 2025, a three-year running-in period. And it matches, of course, that there are even very different areas for this bill to deal with products and services to be organised on the digital surface, so that we comply with the EU Accessibility Directive. There is no doubt that the bill will facilitate the lives of people with disabilities so that they can participate as much as possible in social life on an equal footing with others. The bill therefore introduces a number of accessibility requirements for selected products and services. These must ensure that more people can use self-service terminals, trade on the Internet, use media services and apps, book tickets for means of transport, etc. Let me try to reflect a little on the ways in which we could consider using to meet the availability requirement. Digital development is taking place at a rapid pace, and Danish IT companies are highly innovative in developing special programmes or facilities to ensure accessibility. We in the public sector should encourage the use of these solutions, which will also benefit Danish companies and, as I said, also those who need special accessibility. Then you can add to it that the very large IT companies have facilities built into their general software, which can be activated in order to increase accessibility for groups that have difficulty using the common approaches. Let me just mention the opportunity to talk to your computer • ask it to read given texts or store texts that you enter on your computer. When we use these possibilities, we facilitate life and accessibility for much more. And facial recognition knows most of us by using the phones that are in circulation. It can be used to a much greater extent than we know today. It is my belief that we must inspire the use of these special features, which have already been put into ordinary computers, and the more we apply them, the sooner more and more sophisticated solutions will be developed for the benefit of groups that have special needs. The proposal for a law provides for minimum implementation, and one may be critical of this, but if one reads the consultation answers that go with the draft law, it is clear that room must be created for dialogue between those who have the shoes on and know where it is printed and those who draw up the rules. It is a form of work which we have often developed very well and with targeted solutions in mind to meet given objectives. The Social Democratic Party supports L 131 and, of course, is willing and active in the upcoming committee work on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301143229	You're welcome, sir. Orla Sea. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301143239	It is the implementation of the EU Accessibility Directive that this bill is about to implement. The key, of course, is to ensure that people with disabilities must be able to participate in society on an equal footing with everyone else, so the intentions are very reasonable: we must ensure that systems are put in place so that people with disabilities of one nature or another have the opportunity to make use of many of the solutions that we others regard as perfectly natural and that make everyday life much easier. So, basically, it makes really good sense, and it also makes very good sense that it is through EU rules that we are doing this, because it ensures uniform rules and removes barriers to the internal market. In concrete terms, legislative proposals mean that for a number of selected products and services a high degree of accessibility must be ensured, so that as many people as possible can use them. It is a minimum implementation of the directive. We in the Left think this is sensible. I have also noticed, like the Socialist rapporteur, that there are some who think that we should go further in the consultations. But when you look at the other side of the coin, the cost of implementing this, I think it makes very good sense to make a minimum implementation. The best estimate at the moment is • and I have noted that the Minister has indicated that a follow-up assessment will also be made of this • that conversion costs can therefore be charged at somewhere between 4.5 and 6 billion. kr. And the current costs of complying with the directive are around 360-380 million. kr. annual. It is, of course, a fairly large bill, but of course we must ensure that people with disabilities meet services and products that ensure that they have easy access to them. I am not going to go over all the elements that my Socialist colleague so thoroughly explained. But I have to say that we lack something that goes the other way in terms of costs and administrative burdens. The objectives are always good. Whether it is a strengthened effort against money laundering, better protection of our personal data in the form of GDPR, or making life as easy as possible for people with disabilities, everything makes real sense. But I also think it is necessary to emphasise this and I would urge the government to try to get the EU to put action behind words in order to make it easier to operate. There must therefore be initiatives to reduce economic burdens. There is no point in the fact that it alone is additional burdens and additional costs that business is faced with. So this is a strong call to action by the Minister of Industry. Some of the many nice intentions of the European Union to make things simpler and more effective, we would like to see something firm and concrete action on so that we can both make an effective fight against money laundering, protect our personal data through a high level of data security with the GDPR and ensure people with disabilities better access to a wide range of products and services. But we must also reduce the costs of business by relaxing elsewhere. There are two things on which I would just like to make a brief comment. One is the question of e-books, which is also referred to. If you follow the proposal as it stands, it will mean that there is a great, great risk that a lot of e-books will simply be taken off the market. I think I've seen an estimate of costs of about 300 million. kr. The second point is that there are also some questions about teaching materials that I would also like to look at. It is, of course, important to stress that there are also some restrictions on when this applies. Micro-enterprises are excluded, and it is of course in recognition that what we are dealing with is relatively administratively cumbersome. I would also like to say at the very end that there is a demand for thorough guidance and ongoing dialogue so that this can be dealt with in practice, and I call on the government and the authorities to follow this closely when the draft law is to be implemented here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301143756	You're welcome, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. There are no brief comments and I would like to welcome Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301143814	As mentioned, this bill implements the EU Accessibility Directive, which will have effect for Danish companies by June 2025, and the aim, as we have heard here, is that people with disabilities can, as far as possible, participate in social life on an equal footing with others. In the SF, we are sorry that this is an absolute minimum implementation. In Denmark, as one of the richest EU countries, we should be some of those who took the lead in terms of accessibility. As early as 2009, Denmark ratified as one of the very first countries to ratify the UN Convention on Disability, and it should therefore be no surprise to anyone that we in Denmark want to ensure good accessibility for people with disabilities. In this way, most companies should also have adapted to a high degree of accessibility, as many years have passed since they could have been willing to do so. The social economy is also a good and positive effect in the fact that more people experience accessibility, can participate in social life and act without too many aids and without too much support. Then we have some very concrete wishes • I'll take a look at the minister. In addition to the fact that, as I said, we think we should have gone further in supporting people with disabilities, we are also critical of section 7, which we want to discuss with the Minister and also in committee. There are some risks that, if you wish, you can avoid really having to live up to the spirit and letter of the law; there are some risks in relation to that paragraph. In addition, we would also wish that instead of releasing small businesses with a maximum amount of money. 10 employees with a maximum turnover of 15 million. kr. A year ago, we set out to say: how can we help some of these companies? I believe that there are a great many small businesses who want to ensure accessibility and good conditions for people with disabilities but who do not have the resources to do so. There I think we should make more help and guidance available to them. In addition, some of the consultation responses point to e.g. The hearing answers from the Institute for Human Rights, Danish Handicap Organisations and the Consumer Council Think about this very fact that it is an absolute minimum implementation and that you do not go as far as you could to help people with disabilities. In addition, the Institute for Human Rights and Danske Handicap organisations want a joint secretariat service and the creation of a complaint body, and I think that is right and proper, and I hope that the Minister will respond and that we can discuss this in committee. Because what are we gonna do with this if there's no way of complaining? Finally, within too long a time, we want to be able to evaluate the law too, so that we can see if there are any loopholes such as those described in the consultation answers in relation to section 7 and whether this has the effect that we want it to have. And again, I just want to say that Denmark was one of the first countries to ratify the Disability Convention, and that is why I think that, as a rich and prosperous country, we should take the lead in this and help some of the companies that had financial difficulties in meeting the requirements, so help them instead of saying that they should just not live up to them. But the SF can support the proposal. This is a step forward, and it is also a directive that we are implementing here. We just wish that we went further and we would like to discuss this in committee. And then I have promised to welcome from the Radical Left, who agree with those remarks and agree with them and also vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301144239	You're welcome. There are no brief comments on the SF, so we move on to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party, which is next in line.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301144308	Thank you for the floor. How good it is that we think in accessibility for everyone. You could also call it freedom for everyone, right for everyone on equal terms with others. For people with disabilities, various challenges arise in connection with transport, online trade, self-service terminals and much more, depending on disability, of course. And since we neither record nor have a clear definition of what a disability really is, we do not have the full overview of how many people, for example. is blind or in a wheelchair. All we know is that the vast majority of products and services are developed for the majority. According to WHO, it means 85-90 per cent. It is estimated that 10-15 per cent of the population. of the population has a disability. With the Accessibility Directive of 19 April, we are living up to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. That's really good. But come on, it's so expensive. The cautious estimate says 4.5 to 6 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers. kr. This is therefore a total loss of 0.7 billion in structural gross domestic product. kr. In particular, it is the banks and the grid trade that must change and change, and it may be difficult because it is so uncertain what is covered. It's gotta be taken care of. Therefore, it is good that we are already starting to organise so that the next three years can be used to find solutions before the requirements have to be met by 2025. In the intervening period, it is also a matter for Danish industry to develop solutions that can be used both here and in the rest of the EU. If we get out of the starting blocks, we can see conversion as an opportunity to develop solutions that can create growth and new jobs. With us Conservatives we would like to see a very thorough examination of the committee and, above all, very close cooperation with the professions concerned on how the law should ultimately be knitted together, not least because one can imagine that in some areas the law has been overtaken by already discovered technology, newly discovered technological solutions. In particular, I must also say that there is an area that requires a very high focus, and it is the e-market that has been published before the date of entry into force of the law, the so-called back catalogue. I would call for us to look at solutions at least in this context, which have been used in Sweden and Finland and which must be assumed to comply with the directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301144544	Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul. Well, then, sir. Jacob Silver mound arrived, but when the first shall be the last, he shall have the seat at the bottom of the line. I would like to welcome Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301144610	Thank you. How wonderful it is to hear the chairman quote from the Bible here from the chair. Digitalization has gone extremely fast. It is no more than a few years ago that we discussed that it was not fair to the elderly, who only had cash to pay, that they were cut off from places where you could only pay with cards, or that it was a pity for the elderly that they could not vote in dance or anything else because they did not have a mobile phone. Today, however, it is not enough for them to have a credit card or a mobile phone. Today they have to have a smartphone with apps, otherwise they cannot get a discount in Lidl or in Føtex or at INGO gas stations, nor can they park their car in Copenhagen. So it's fine that with this proposal we just stop and give them a chance, the elderly; the disabled; those who see or hear weak; those who cannot walk. The proposal increases accessibility in a number of areas. There shall be voice functions at ticket machines and ATMs and it shall be possible for a wheelchair user to withdraw money from an ATM. Furthermore, transport service providers must ensure that people with visual disabilities can use their services. In the Danish People's Party, it has always been our heart to help the elderly and the disabled and to ensure that they have the same opportunities as the rest of us and that they have better accessibility, cost what it will cost! And so it will. It will cost, we can see, what some of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned: between 4.5 and 6 billion. kr., and even more, if you are to believe what some of the hearing answers predict. This does not give us any reason not to support the proposal, because we will, of course, do so. However, this gives us the opportunity to propose a very, very thorough committee procedure in which we get through all the issues and all the concerns. We must ensure that the obligations of Internet service providers are stagnant, and we must also respond to the concerns of Danish Businesses, who point out how expensive it will be if we are to withdraw all existing e-books from the market in order to make them disabled. So many of these publishers are small, they're SMEs, and we have to make sure that this proposal doesn't put them down. So let us take a thorough look at this in committee, where we have a lot of stakeholders in deployment, so that we can land it here in a good way, to the great benefit of the elderly and the disabled, and so that, at the same time, we can also give the business community a fair chance to adapt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301144913	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301144920	I do not think anyone is going to hear anyone say from the platform today that we should not ensure good conditions for the disabled or for the elderly so that they can use certain products or services. That would be unthinkable, and I will not say that either. I also think it is a good idea to keep a constant focus on it. The share of the coin is then only that once again the Folketing, via the EU, which is used as an excuse this time, imposes increased costs on business. We simply cannot continue to do so without something coming back on the other side. Now there has to be a thorough examination of the committee on this, and I would therefore urge all my good colleagues that, when we have this committee, we look at where we can then actually lighten the burden on business, which corresponds to what is now being put on business by extra costs. For this would perhaps be the first time in world history that the costs that we impose on business will not be passed on to citizens, to consumers. So if we are not careful, we are doing something good in the intention for people with disabilities, but we are still making it considerably harder for the same disabled people to use these services and services, because they have to pay much more for them, and then the good intentions are wasted. So let us look at how we can lighten the burden on business, even this time, so that we do not put a big bill on the citizens we actually want to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301145110	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301145115	I can't help thinking a little bit about the fact that if we had always thought like sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen says that Denmark would not have had two of the world's largest hearing aid producers here on Danish soil. We do, because someone wanted us to give access to a technology which was new at the time and which has today been successful, so that Danish hearing aid manufacturers earn a lot of money and employ a great many people. Isn't that a wrong philosophy, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is a fan, that is, the thing about being born in the wheelbarrow and always being pushed forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20220301145151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301145153	No, it may well be that the Social Democrats pay tribute to the fact that everything has to be done through state development or something, but, so, I am quite glad that the car I drive is not a car produced by the state and through government management, but that it is actually people in the private labour market who have created the cars we are driving today. That was the very first thing I said in my rapporteur's speech, namely that I think it is really, really important. But we cannot continue to impose burdens on business from in here and then magically believe that the costs just disappear into businesses and are not put on the consumers afterward because that is now reality, regardless of whether Mr. Orla Sea will outline one that is not the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301145245	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301145249	But it is still a matter of the fact that if no one had dared to make that investment and we are not talking about state investment, because at that time it was the sickness funds that ensured that their members could have access to hearing aids, we would not have had those companies, then we would not have had those jobs. So it's a fake, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen is running as if it were an either-or. This could be a boat and, in other words, that you can both provide better services to the citizens who need help, and at the same time develop some companies that earn money and employ people for good wages. That is, of course, the crucial difference in relation to the saving rhetoric, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen always says that we should celebrate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301145335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301145338	If what the rapporteur says is an expression of the government's position, that is to say, that people want to ensure that more private investment is made, then I welcome it, so let us immediately lower corporate tax. It is a corporation tax on productivity and investment. It is a tax that penalises people and companies who want to invest. Then there's no need to have that treasure. However, when we tabled the motion for a resolution to reduce corporation tax, the Social Democratic Party was opposed. In other words, measures that can actually secure the investments that we now have to understand that the Social Democrats would like to have, I am in favour of. So let's lower the tax, so it's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301145411	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301145420	Thank you. In Denmark we once had a rule that when a family had to build its house, the house had to lie down flat on the ground so that there was no stairs up; otherwise the family who built the house had to make sure that there was a firmly built ramp with tiles up to the elevated front door. For even if the family did not hold a person in a wheelchair, and even if the house would not be sold to a person in a wheelchair next time, and even if the house would not be sold to a person in a wheelchair the third time, we still had rules requiring that all houses should be built as if there were people living in wheelchairs in those houses. Fortunately, that rule was abolished because some people were concerned that it was enough to make the house accessible to disabled people if they were to live in them, rather than all houses having to pay for making the home disabled, even if there were no disabled people living in it. And it was much wiser to spend only money on the houses where disabled people live, rather than on all houses where disabled people do not live. This directive from the European Union is the same. It says that instead of finding solutions for people with disabilities in different places, no matter how it can be solved, everything has to be made as if all customers have a disability and need some special equipment in order to access these services. That is, of course, why it will be so expensive; that is why it will cost what the government estimates is up to 6 billion. kr. For the financial sector alone, it is estimated that it could cost up to 13 billion in its area. kr. to change these things so that everything is carpentered so that disabled people, without any additional aids, can get into them. It's just a wrong approach. That is not the approach where they say: how many will benefit from this and how much will it cost? It is an approach that says: no matter how much it costs and no matter how few people benefit from it, it must be implemented. That is why we cannot support it. There is also another reason why we cannot support it, and that is that what our Dankort terminals and ticket machines look like in Denmark, frankly, we do not need the EU system to interfere in. Our ticket machines will not flow across the border into Germany, where they would burden you. Our Dankort terminals will not suddenly be blown to Spain with the wind, where you can see that the Spanish consumers will suffer down there. It is not a cross-border problem what our ticket machines and dancing card terminals look like here in Denmark, and therefore we do not recognise that the European Union should be able to legitimately interfere in this. There is a principle of subsidiarity in the EU Treaty which says that things must be resolved where it is closest to the citizens, and only when there is no other way out, for example. pollution, then, of course, it must be resolved at EU level. When it comes to establishing rules for the internal market, it may also be necessary to make rules at EU level. But what it takes to buy a ticket in a ticket machine in Denmark or what it takes to withdraw some money from a Dankortterminal in Denmark, the EU does not have to interfere in. So for these reasons, we are voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301145813	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no brief comments. We've come to sir. Jakob Silver Mound from Enhedslisten, The Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301145825	In the Enhedslisten, we naturally support the ambition to make products and services more accessible to people with disabilities, and we therefore fundamentally welcome the proposal here. For too many years, far too many people with disabilities have faced insurmountable barriers that exclude them from living a life on an equal footing with everyone else, because our societies in large areas are simply not designed with an eye on people with disabilities. If you cannot buy a ticket for a public transport, if you cannot use a smartphone, if you cannot participate with others on an equal footing in teaching, then that really leads to a social exclusion. It is deeply unfair to the individual, but it is also stupid from a social point of view, because it prevents many people from making their full contribution to solving the many tasks we have in our society. It is a good thing that with this proposal we are increasing the availability requirement, but we think in the Enhedslisten that it is a pity that the proposal does not go any further. We fully support the need to phase in the requirements in a fair way, because we are presenting companies with practical challenges and economic costs, but we do not think that large areas of legislation are excluded and transitional arrangements as long as they are outlined here are as long as possible. We have also noted the exception to micro-enterprises from the implementation of the legislative proposal, and given the corporate structure we have here, with an unusually large number of small businesses, we see that there may also be a problem here. In short, in the Enhedslisten, we would like to see the bill raising the ambition slightly. We recognise that there is a balance in relation to the solutions we need to ensure for accessibility for citizens and the financial costs for each company. We respect the fact that there is something that may require transitional arrangements, but we therefore believe that what is proposed is too far-reaching. We think, as I have been able to hear other rapporteurs say, that there is reason for us to have a very thorough committee procedure in this area. We hope that together we can help to raise the level of ambition. We look forward to being able, hopefully, to jointly raising the ambition of this proposal and achieving improved accessibility in an improved version compared to what the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301150124	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And then we finally came to the Minister for Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301150133	Thank you very much for that and thank you for many good speeches. I think there are a lot of people who recognize this feeling that there are everyday things that seem small and that seem perfectly natural to each of us. At least I don't think about it very much myself when I turn on the TV or when I log on to my online bank or if I'm shopping on websites on the Internet. It is privileged to feel this way: to be able to see, to hear, to have manageability and senses. But many Danes have a more difficult everyday life: For them, small everyday things can become major challenges. There was a time when we basically just ignored this problem. Fortunately, this has changed gradually over time, and today we can make the conditions for life more equal. We can create more equal opportunities in Denmark, and that is why we must, of course, work for exactly that. We must do this in a sensible and wise, balanced and proper way. Of course we do. But my goal will always be to create as equal opportunities as possible for as many people as possible. And now the EU has adopted a directive which lays down accessibility requirements for many selected products and services. It can be both a physical decor, but it can also be online availability. It is not a revolution what we are witnessing here, but it is a major step in the right direction. And that may mean, just to mention an example, that your online banking should be available in several different ways, where you can use the hearing and feeling to access your online banking if you are blind. The aim is, of course, that products and services should be easy to use for citizens with disabilities and with other functional constraints. And with the bill that we are considering here, we will then implement this directive that I have been talking about. And it helps to standardise accessibility across the whole of the European Union. This makes it easier for all people in the European Union who have a disability, and it also makes it easier for companies to comply with these requirements. For when the EU's entire internal market is to meet the requirements, there are clear and equal conditions for companies in competition with each other. But, of course, we must also be honest and say that it can be cost-effective when it comes to adjusting. And that is why it makes sense for this bill to have a transitional arrangement. There will be, for example: be exceptional where it is too expensive to comply with the accessibility requirements. Many have mentioned the small books and e-books • editions that must be available on the web. It could be a place where we should look into these relationships. Undertakings shall not be obliged to comply with the accessibility requirements if compliance with those requirements is disproportionate for them. And then there are companies which have a maximum of ten employees and which are in any case exempt from this. It is for the same reason that the legislative proposal we are debating today does not go further than the directive goes and, although the directive will only have to be implemented by 28 June of this year, it will not have effect until three years later. And that means that Danish companies will have to meet the requirements of June 28, 2025. So there is a fairly long transition period. We must use that period of transition wisely and helpfully. We must ensure that a thorough counselling effort is initiated so that both authorities and the business community know how the rules of the quite practical will be designed and arranged. And, of course, we will ensure that business is also involved in that process. I think that's how we dress the company best to be able to comply with these rules, and that's how we together make the conditions for life more equal for as many Danes as possible. Then I have heard the wishes to have a thorough committee reading on this bill too, and I think that is a very good idea. I also hear Parliament being divided in the sense that there is a desire among some parties to go further than the directive and to remove exceptions to a certain extent, and that there are other parties who are concerned that the burden should not be too high and should not grow from it. I would say this in that we believe that we have struck the right balance with the legislative proposal here, where burdens and initiatives are balanced and where there is a balanced approach to everything. And that is why the government is hoping for a good committee and for us to agree to adopt this bill in broad agreement in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301150715	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301150719	Thank you. I can hear that we are divided in terms of what we can demand from companies, but then I would just like to ask the wish that certain organisations, including the Institute for Human Rights and Danish Disability Organizations, should have access to complaints and joint secretariat services.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301150741	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301150742	I just want to start by saying that I think it's natural that there are different views on this matter, so it's no pointing fingers. After all, we ourselves had the same considerations when we had to make the bill on how we could find the right balance in relation to these things. Compared to e.g. We have to look together at how that legal basis might be used. But there is an opportunity to do so, and I hope that is an answer to the organisations that have raised it as a concern. Because I think this is gonna be complex. Now there is a transitional period and the three years must be spent wisely, and it will be a huge effort to provide guidance, but then there will also be a weekday when things have to be printed, and it is wise that you have a place to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301150836	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister for Industry. The Minister for Business and Industry Thank you very much). As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Enterprise Committee which seems to be keen to do a committee work. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301150901	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Kasper Roug of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301150922	Thank you for that, President. This bill, which we are considering today, aims to strengthen justice and legal certainty in Greenland in a number of different areas. In the Social Democratic Party we want to ensure an equal and strengthened partnership with Greenland, where we can jointly develop the Danish responsibilities by updating the legislation and ensuring a modern regulatory structure. The Ministry of Justice has therefore drawn up this bill with a number of amendments, including: of the Code of Procedure for Greenland and the Code of Criminal Procedure for Greenland, and this has been done at the request of Naalakkersuisut. The draft law consists of a set of different proposals which contain quite a number of different elements, which I think are described very well in the summary of the draft law. As Greenland's rapporteur, I am, of course, very concerned that all legislation applicable in Greenland is drawn up in close, good and equal cooperation with Greenland's self-government. And it is my clear impression that there is very broad support for this bill in Greenland, as it has been requested by Naalakkersuisut and unanimously adopted in Inatsisartut. Of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. I thank you for the floor and, of course, look forward to a good debate. And then I would say that the Radical Left also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301151048	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301151058	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for bringing forward this bill which, of course, meets the wishes of Greenlandic self-government in terms of strengthening legal certainty and modernising the police in Greenland. We can only back that up. We believe that legal certainty in Greenland is being increased with this bill, and we also believe that it will be good for the police that there will now be more equality between Greenland Police and Danish police circles. Having said that, we also hope that this is only a start to our good cooperation to improve justice in Greenland. Among other things: We think that there are a number of delays in getting the IT systems up to date in Greenland, and we hope that this is the next step we will be taking when we have started this exercise. So thank you to the Minister for a good start in following up the Greenlandic wishes. And we look forward to the continued work of fully achieving the modern justice system in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301151201	Thank you. And then we should have had Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Christian Juhl, but he is preoccupied with other tasks. But I should say that the Enhedslisten supports the good proposals on Greenland. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen from New Citizens. They will, of course, have the opportunity to speak if they do so before we finish the item. Here you go, sir. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301151244	Thank you. The draft law deals with the implementation of police reforms and the establishment of a new system of police complaints, the introduction of motivational places for sexual offenders in Anstalten in Nuuk, an increase in the level of measures for the rape of minors, and the strengthening of the legal position of victims of crime. The draft law stems from the wishes of Naalakkersuisut and Inatsisartut as well as discussions in the Council for the Law of Greenland. In addition, parts of the bill are based on recommendations from a joint Greenlandic-Danish working group on strengthened action for vulnerable children and young people in Greenland. So new citizens can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301151337	Thank you. And then we have come to one of our Greenlandic colleagues, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301151345	Thank you for the floor. This is a comprehensive legislative proposal which several parties before me have also briefly outlined, so I will not go into too much detail, but I would just like to highlight those parts of the legislative proposal which have a particular impact on Greenlandic society. Initially, IA would like to praise the government for the bill and the government's efforts for an equal, positive and strengthened partnership with Greenland. The bill is about a sea of austerity that Inuit Ataqatigiit has called for and worked for, so we believe that this is a joyous day, where the focus is largely on preventing personalised crime and ensuring better help for victims. So thank the government for that. With a strengthened response to vulnerable children, there must be a 50% increase in measures when children experience sexual abuse and, in addition, motivational treatment for sexual offenders. The victims will receive guidance and information when this law enters into force. That's really positive. Victims are also given the opportunity to obtain information when infringements are released or participate in television or radio programmes and there is additional protection for witnesses. We think it is very positive that there is increased use of remote communication and access to court hearings, and finally we can see with this bill that the Greenland Police are recognised as a police group in line with the other 13 police circles. It's certainly about time. Let it be said immediately. Inuit Ataqatigiit supports the bill, but we have some comments that we also need to highlight. First of all, we believe that it is important that, in several cases, information is provided when there is release and participation in radio and television programmes. It is not enough that this only happens if you ask for it, because then it will hit awkward, so that resourceful people and their relatives will use that opportunity, while those who are in vulnerable families do not have a surplus to apply for that opportunity, and that worries IA, and we think that we should change that. In the same vein, we would also like to draw attention to the fact that the bill lays down that victims and relatives may be informed on request if the convicted person appears on television, radio or newspapers. We would like to remind you that today we also live in a digitalised world in Greenland, and in Greenland we use social media very much. Whether the convicted person acts spontaneously in television or online interviews or on Facebook or elsewhere is equally cross-border, so we would like to remind you that we also need to remember the digital media. More and more journalistic content is moving onto the digital media, which is why we also believe that it is essential to include digital media in this bill. With the bill, we see that the prosecution of the police is being strengthened and, above all, we would like to say that IA supports this, but we also need to reiterate the need for a greater educational boost in the area of justice, among other things. by the defenders and the circuit judges. It helps to ensure equality of arms. We know, of course, that the funds allocated to the national defender have been cut back on some money that we helped to secure in a pool of justice which, unfortunately, is no longer there, so that it is distorted in terms of education. So we would like to emphasise that. On the positive side, it can be said that it is very good that something more remote communication is being used, and IA calls for it to be used even more in the courts, especially in Greenlandic society, where we know that there are long processing times and it can be difficult with the geographical challenge that we have in Greenlandic society. The IA itself has helped to allocate money to a marshhound in criminal justice, and we welcome the fact that with this bill, even more initiatives are being taken to counteract alcohol and hashish consumption in the institutions. Finally, we would say that we in the IA support the division of responsibilities in relation to the mentally ill who commit a criminal act. In practice, however, it is our experience that the psychiatry and psychiatric efforts both from social and health care, which is a Greenlandic responsibility, are highly challenged, and that is why we would like to raise a flag here to strengthen the efforts in the psychiatric field. We have it as a matter of priority that Greenland police and asylum officers should receive the same wages as their Danish colleagues. We would like to remind you that the funds for the wage increase that we secured in the Folketing will expire at the end of 2023. It has also been a matter of particular importance that municipal managers receive up-to-date pay and working conditions, which is why we once again call on the government to work for higher wages for municipal managers. With these comments, we would like to thank you for the legislative proposal and for the floor. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-DK_20220301151920	You're welcome. Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. There are no brief comments. The next in order is Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam from Siumut.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301151941	Thank you for the floor. First, it's important for me to point out that this bill is extremely important for Kalaallit Nunaat. This is a bill that should have come decades ago. This is an area which, unfortunately, has been neglected for a long time, and that is why Siumut is very pleased to see it finally taken up. It was raised in Inatsisartut, the Greenland Parliament, which demanded that the Greenland Government have a talk with the Minister of Justice about this very point. And we are pleased to see that this legislative package goes through so many necessary things both in terms of treatment places from sexual offenders who are being set up in Nuuk; the implementation of a new police reform; new police complaint system; raising the level of measures for the rape of children by up to 50%.; strengthening legal certainty for the victims of crime and much more. But I must honestly admit that I was a little shocked when I walked into this Chamber and saw how little commitment there was from inside the Chamber, precisely on this very important issue. And what can make me worried about this extremely good bill is whether it just becomes a kind of sleeping pillow, where you come to think, to reach, now we from the Folketing have done ours, that is, what is our responsibility to ensure legal certainty and to ensure that the children who are in Greenland are also treated properly. Let me remind you that the entire police and judicial system is a Danish responsibility in Greenland. And we don't want it to be neglected anymore. So, even if we support this good proposal, let me remind you that there is still much to be done. We also need to look at the democratic form in which we make these laws • the whole consultation process. We also had a hearing on the judiciary not so long ago in the Greenland Committee, and it is also important for me to point out that if we are to ensure the democratic participation of Greenland and that the people of Greenland can also contribute to their contribution in relation to these important legislations, it is also important that we should be able to follow Greenland in Greenlandic. And we simply do not do well enough from the Folketing. During Siumut's term of office, we have ensured that it will be possible for committees to run a hearing in Greenlandic with a translator, but we cannot see it on Greenlandic television, nor is it possible to transmit this law right now from this Chamber on Kalaallisut. If we are also to ensure democratic participation and ensure that these laws will have the best effect on Greenland and the best effect, then I believe that if it is to have the effect we want, we will also have to strengthen democratic involvement. Then don't let it be a sleeping pillow. I think it's good that we take this up. I think there are some good initiatives. But I think there is a lot we need to do yet. For example, when we look at stricter measures of sex offenders in relation to children, it is also important that we do not just make a more stringent measure of 50%. We also need to look at what the minimum is, because we have something called the principle of the perpetrator, where you also look at the perpetrator instead of the crime, and it can have different kinds of effect, that is, how to judge a single case, which can also be very good in some cases for Greenlandic society. But it has been a kind of experiment from time immemorial, which in many cases may not have had the best effect on Greenlandic society. That is why I think we should look further at the principle of the perpetrator, especially with regard to sex crimes against children, i.e. if this one should not be further reviewed. But like I said, it's a good bill. With those words, Siumut will support and back up the bill. But don't let it turn into a sleeping pillow, and let me see more who engage. Let Greenland see more people who are involved in the Danish Parliament, i.e. the Folketing, on such an extremely important subject, which also affects a great many children in Greenland. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301152428	You're welcome. There are no brief comments. As I mentioned in the previous paragraph, the first ones must be the last ones, which is why we are now taking up those who have arrived in the debate. So I would like to welcome Mr. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301152444	This is a comprehensive review that we are discussing today. But my rapporteur's speech will be brief because it is a well worked out proposal that we have on the table. After all, there is a great need for an upgrading of the entire justice area in Greenland, and the review we have here is one of several absolutely necessary steps. The SF supports the proposal, which has already been dealt with both in Naalaksuisut and in Inatsisartut. SF supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301152522	Thank you. Nor did it make any brief comments, so we move on to the next one, and that is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301152537	Nor will my rapporteur's speech be the longest in Danish history. It is a conciliation that I too think is very comprehensive, and I must be honest in recognising that not all the details we have been delving into, but we are aware that there seems to be broad support for it. It is seen as a step forward in Greenland, as a strengthening of justice and police. Of course, we would very much like to contribute to this by the Danish Parliament, and that is the main reason why we think it seems that a good job has been done which it would be wise to vote through. We therefore intend to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301152619	Thank you. There were no brief comments to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. That's why we're gonna go over to mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301152635	Thank you for that, President. Normally, sir. Peter Skaarup may have stood here as it is about legal relations, but I have the honour today of being able to say that we in the Danish People's Party support the proposal. A very thorough preparatory work has been put into achieving this, where a reform of the police and the prosecution of the Greenlandic part can be proposed. We think that there are many positive things in this, especially, of course, that we can take more action against the sexual abuse of children, but also in relation to the independence of police prosecutions, in relation to improving the legal position of victims of crime and in relation to the protection of witnesses, etc.; there are a number of good proposals in what has been presented to us here today, and that is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301152732	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and we have reached the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301152738	I should like to start by expressing my thanks for the positive contributions we have heard today. And I note, and I think we should do this in common, that in Greenland too the bill is being viewed positively. It was adopted unanimously in the Greenland Parliament, and I understand that because, as various speakers have pointed out, the draft law contains a large number of good initiatives which will improve legal conditions, the administration of justice in Greenland. So I look forward to the further examination of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301152816	Thank you, Minister. This did not give rise to brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301152838	The debate has been opened, and the first to speak is Mr Beazley. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301152853	Thank you. This bill is about whether we should keep section 136. Three in the Penal Code. The provision was inserted in 2016 and criminalises what we call explicit approval of certain criminal offences, including rape, bigami, terror and killing, as part of religious training. When it was introduced, a revision clause was attached to it, and that is why we must now decide whether, as the government proposes, we should continue to have the provision. It is our clear view that we must do so. We voted together with a broad majority in favour of the 2016 provision, and we did so because we do not want religious preachers to abuse their great authority in certain environments to undermine our Danish laws and values. We simply will not accept that some, through preaching, are trying to create parallel societies where the perception of our democratic community and our democratic rights is quite different. We then made a defense against that in 2016 as part of a series of initiatives, and we must keep that protection. I understand that this is a very complex issue and that there are no simple solutions to the challenges that we see, but basically today's discussion is about whether we want to make legitimation of, for example, killing, stoning and bigami as part of religious training legal again. We do not want that, and that is why we naturally support the proposal to repeal the revision clause and keep Article 136 (1). Three as it looks now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301153035	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so I would like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301153050	Thank you. Unfortunately, we have to note that there are forces in Denmark that, under the guise of religion, are trying to undermine our society and the Danish values. We need to be able to punish those who, as part of religious education, expressly approve of offences such as terrorism, killing, rape, violence, incest, paedophilia, etc. Therefore, in 2016 we introduced that provision. The background was that we would do more to stem the undermining of the basic Danish values and combat parallel legal perceptions. In fact, we still have that wish in the Left, which is why we should not implicitly accept that there are people in Denmark who use their particular religious authority to approve this kind of thing. When the provision was introduced, a revision clause was introduced which said that we must decide this year whether the provision should be continued. We in the Left believe it should. We can also see that it has been applied. Østre Landsret used it some time ago, which triggered 6 months in prison for someone who approved killing during a sermon. This case illustrates quite well why there is still a need to adhere to these rules. So, in the view of the Left, it must continue to be a criminal offence to express direct approval of crime such as killing, terror, rape, etc., and that is why we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301153228	You're welcome, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301153238	Thank you for the floor. The proposal here follows on from the law to criminalise the explicit approval of certain criminal offences, for example. rape, terror and killing as part of religious training. The proposal repeals the revision clause and Article 136 of the Penal Code. 3, continued and becomes permanent. In the SF, we are not very authoritative. We believe that as politicians we have a special responsibility to ensure that authorities, for example. religious authorities do not abuse their position to suppress or mislead innocents, spread hatred or undermine our democracy. That is why we supported the proposal here when it was tabled at the time. It is important to note that criminalisation, which is the subject of this proposal, only includes statements made as part of religious training by an authority and at the same time has a preaching element. That means, for example, that: ordinary religious instruction or the fact that a teacher reads from some very old religious writings, where there can also be more or less strange things, is of course quite legal. This also means that in any context other than a training situation with a preaching element, you can say exactly what you want and write exactly what you want. It is also important for us in the SF to stand guard over freedom of expression. It is clear from the comments that this bill complies with the Constitution and our international obligations. The law only hits some hateful people who spend all their gunpowder and time training vulnerable people that illegal acts and crimes should be okay. So does it make sense to carry on the rule? Well, the evaluation points to a very small number of cases in this area, among others. a case of an imam who, during a sermon in a mosque in March 2017, explicitly approved killings. He was sentenced by the city court to 6 months suspended imprisonment, which was later confirmed by the Østre Landsret. In addition, there have been a few reports of support for terrorism which have not led to a conviction. However, the relatively small number of cases should not be an excuse for exploiting vulnerable people who may be subjected to the approval of serious crime in connection with religious training. Moreover, it cannot be ruled out that the case of the imam, which was sentenced to six months' suspended imprisonment under that provision, could have had a certain deterrent effect. It is therefore also our view that this paragraph is needed in the future, and the SF can support the proposal. Furthermore, I would like to say that in the SF we are also on the way with a proposal for a ban on religious leaders being able to exploit people from their congregation. Today there is a protection for patients from being exploited on the basis of a therapeutic dependence on psychologists or doctors, but that protection does not have a person from a congregation, and we want that. We think that this proposal is a good follow-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301153540	You're welcome. There were no brief comments and I would like to welcome Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301153555	Thank you very much. In the Radical Left, we are seriously looking at radicalisation. We believe that we must combat radicalisation, targeted, effective and harsh, and we must combat religious radicalisation, as well as other forms of radicalisation, for example. be politically speaking. However, we must also combat radicalisation with measures that work, and not with symbolic policy or discrimination, because that would be counterproductive. This is also one of the points made by the Freedom of expression Commission in its report of 2020, namely that it is doubtful that restrictions on freedom of expression are the right way to go in order to prevent challenges with radicalisation and parallel societies. The Commission shall draw, inter alia: Article 136 of the Penal Code as an example. In the Radical Left, we are also sensitive to the answers to the hearings, among others. a hearing response from the Institute for Human Rights, which points to some relevant concerns and among others. I would also like to refer to what the Commission on Freedom of Movement points out in its report. Of the other concerns expressed in the consultations, for example, could be: It is also mentioned in relation to proportionality, since only three notifications have been registered, one of which has been the subject of a judgment. So in the Radical Left we cannot support the proposal here, and I should like to welcome it from the Enhedslisten and say that they do not support it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301153739	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Britt Baker from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301153758	Thank you. In the Conservative People's Party, we support this proposal. We support countering behavior that undermines Danish laws and values. We support the fact that there is a parallel view of the law and we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301153823	Thanks for that. It was short and cash. We move on to the next rapporteur, sir. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301153840	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we have read this proposal very carefully. It is the case that the bill envisages continuing to criminalise religious preachers who seek to undermine Danish laws and the values we have in Denmark, and thus with it try to support parallel legal perceptions. It was a law that was passed in 2016, and we shall then assess it again here now. We have a position on whether we should have religious preachers who speak out against Danish morality, including Danish law and, above all, common sense, and that attitude is: we should not do so, we should continue to fight those tendencies. And by that I also say that, of course, there is still a need to ensure that it is criminal to cheap criminal acts and certain phrases in this ball street. And no, of course it should not be allowed. It is Denmark we are in, it is not an Arab banana republic. We live in Denmark, and we must stand firm on that. Basically, of course, the law is about all religious preachers, but the real recipients and the reason why the law was first made are the Islamist imams and other so-called learned people who come to Denmark from other countries and who express various atrocities that do not belong in this country at all. I remember that when the law was introduced at the time, the classic automatic response was that it is of no use at all; that it should just go on one way or another; that we cannot do anything about it; and that it will still run on a video link or otherwise. But I know it hasn't continued. I know this law has actually had an effect if nothing else a preventive effect. And it is clear that if we do not uphold the law as it is, then we will see the effect that there may be extreme imams coming as star guests in the mosque with all that it can bring about by extreme tendencies in relation to those who listen to what is being said. This is, of course, an issue that has come to us in connection with immigration from the Middle East over the last 40-50 years, and unfortunately this is something we have to deal with. Should we continue to fight these trends? Shall we do it more? Indeed, we in the Danish People's Party believe that we should do so. Because the attitude, the expression, the thinking, whether we criminalise it or not, is still gone, and it can be difficult to legislate out of. So, even if we maintain here that this proposal wins the majority to criminalise it, then we also know that there can be statements that are not observed, that are not being prepared, and not least that there can be action behind the statements that we will not be intercepted in time either. And that's why we really need to be on our guard. The bill then says that if it's just and I just put in quotes, it's a reading from a religious text, without the person directly approving it, then it's not covered by this proposal, and so it's not illegal. Perhaps we are not so convinced of that is good enough, because there may well be extreme imams hiding behind them, that they are just trying to read something that some others have written and that it is nothing more than that, but where it can in fact be a criminal call that runs from an extreme version of the text from which they read. So we think that this proposal should be used with the broad brush, and if that is not enough, then we should look at whether it needs to be tightened up at a time when there can be a majority for it. I fully agree that in a great many religions there can be calls for violence, killing and other atrocities in an indirect way. The difference is that here in Denmark we are almost only experiencing problems with environments that come from the Middle East and that typically originate from Islam, and there are typically also some people who can't figure out how to behave properly and don't bother to get into what is going on in Denmark. And that's kind of why this law has been made. As it stands here, we are therefore voting in favour of limiting the criminal statements of certain crazy people. The individual Muslim, the individual citizen can of course be OK. There are certainly many examples of this, but unfortunately there are also some who do not want to follow what we stand for in Denmark and even make extreme utterances, and that is where we have to work hard, because it should not inspire others to do something ugly. So basically, I want to say yes from the Danish People's Party to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301154352	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we now have the opportunity to turn to Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301154407	Thank you so much. I agree with virtually everything that has been said by the rapporteur on behalf of the Danish People's Party. For decades, Denmark and the Danes have suffered under the failed immigration policy of the politicians, and this has made it possible for too many people, mainly from Muslim countries, to come here. This also applies to people who do not share our fundamental Danish values such as democracy, freedom and gender equality, and imams who, in prayer in the mosque, preach death to Jews and the approval of terror. And we don't want something like that in Denmark. It's just not anymore! I can see immediately that only one person has been convicted under the law since its introduction, and that is why we would very much like to see us look at whether the law is restrictive enough in committee. In addition, however, there is no doubt in us in the New Citizens' Party that, if the convicted foreigner, he must be shown consistently and after the first sentence. If the sentenced person has been granted Danish citizenship by law and is sentenced to a custodial sentence, the nationality must be withdrawn and expelled regardless of whether or not the person concerned becomes stateless. We support the continuation of the law, but we will make sure that it is sufficiently restrictive in committee to catch all those intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301154535	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, which is why we have now come to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301154548	All I have to do is thank you for your comments and the broad support for removing this revision provision. It is quite true, as has been said, that this is not a provision which has been applied overwhelmingly many times • the number of notifications is to be understood, and it must certainly be said that the judgments are, but it is not the same as the fact that the provision is not relevant. On the one hand, we can hope that it will work preventively and, on the other hand, we have it as the sword that we can use, it might be relevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301154619	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. No one else wishes to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301154639	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301154703	Thank you for the floor. I would like to take advantage of this to do something that rarely happens in this Chamber, namely, to commend the authors of the motion for a resolution, which is right and right. The government can support that. There may be problems in implementing the proposal in this session, because we have to go through consultation and appropriate consideration, and indeed there are also some technical considerations that we need to clarify, but my request must be that we implement the proposal, that it gets the time required. But it is certainly not an attempt to draw it. So praise a political co- and opponent for having hit the ball right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301154806	You're welcome. It did not give rise to brief remarks. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first one is Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301154825	Thank you for that and also thank the authors of this motion for a resolution. It is an important part of our sense of justice that crimes should not pay off. You should not be allowed to keep stolen goods, nor, of course, should you be able to keep money to which you have deceived yourself. If that money's at home in the perpetrator's mattress, you can confiscate it. But reality is rarely that simple. A question has arisen here about deposits in pension accounts. We do indeed have rules on seizure and confiscation, but we also have rules that give a debtor some rights in the case of creditor follow-up, and those rules also apply to creditors who are wronged in criminal proceedings. Those rules provide protection in relation to pension savings, which means that the funds that are there are protected by a creditor, even if creditors have been subject to fraud by the pension holder. This really gives a person convicted of financial crime the opportunity to secure funds in a pension account. That is not fair; we agree with the proposers that we should do something about it. That is why we can vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. However, we are not so surprisingly in agreement with the Minister for Justice that we will have to have a thorough examination of the complicated rules and their interaction before we embark on making new rules. It is therefore good that the Minister for Justice will go ahead with the matter, so that we have a look at how best to implement the changes proposed by the good resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301154954	You're welcome. There are no brief comments. And I would like to welcome Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the Socialist People's Party. Should others be inspired by it, we have a small corner over here where there is an alcohol-free drink before you go to the platform. Welcome to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301155029	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Left for putting forward this proposal, which has to be said to have great topicality since the other day the Supreme Court put a final end to the case of Britta Nielsen's extensive fraud against her many years of work in the Social Security Agency. After all, the fraud took place over 25 years, when Britta Nielsen continuously transferred the agency's money to herself. In fact, she was convicted of having made nearly 300 transfers to herself, and it is money that should have gone to our most vulnerable citizens. The town court has previously come to the conclusion that SØIK could go for the money at Britta Nielsen's two private pension savings in Nordea, but the Supreme Court has changed that decision, so Britta Nielsen is allowed to keep her pension even though she has fraudulentd more than 100 million. kr. Proposers want legislation to be amended so that in future a creditor can go after deposits in pension accounts, to the extent that the amount due derives from enrichment crime. In the SF, we agree that it is untenable that private pension accounts may end up being a safe haven for people who have committed extensive and serious financial crime over many years. That is why we also support the ambition of the proposal here. We just want to be absolutely sure that we are not out in situations where a person has committed something quite trivial, which may mean that he is then subjected to a very large procedure afterwards. That is why I also think it makes sense to get a job started which looks at how such a scheme might look like. We would, of course, like to take part in this work. We fully agree with the intention here, but we also want to make sure that it is followed properly, of course. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301155223	Thank you very much to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. There are no brief comments. Welcome to Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301155233	Thank you, and I did as the President called. Thank you to the Left for this motion for a resolution, which comes in the wake of the Britta Nielsen affair. We understand in the Radical Left that it is contrary to the sense of justice that the pension can be a place where you secure your funds. However, as the SF's rapporteur has just mentioned, we have some concerns which we would also like to see highlighted in a work that the government then sets in motion. So we look at that with great interest and we take a position on it on the basis of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301155319	You're welcome. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Britt Baker from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301155332	Thank you for that and thank you to Preben Bang Henriksen etc. to table this motion for a resolution. Of course, it should not be the case in Denmark that you can commit enrichment crimes and then save the money in pension savings. It must of course be the case that, as a creditor, you can make deposits in that savings, and that is why we in the Conservative People's Party support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301155401	Thank you. There were no brief comments here either. And I would like to welcome Mr. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301155420	Thank you for that and thank you to the Left for presenting this motion for a resolution. This is, of course, a proposal that we support in the Danish People's Party, because of course we should not be able to have funds in one place or another that come from crime and that no one can claim, even though we know very well that fraud has been committed by the person concerned. The example has been mentioned: the fraudulent Britta Nielsen, who was allowed by the Supreme Court to retain her pension. That is actually contrary to every sense of fairness and justice, which is why I think it is a good thing that the matter is raised here today and that the proposal has been made. Then you are the debtor, yes, then society must, of course, be able to put out the means that you have, and that, wherever you have them standing. So we would really like the proposal to be not just about the funds that come from crime, but generally that if you have funds anywhere, of course you have to match what you owe to others. That must actually be fair and fair. Now the proposal only deals with funds obtained in connection with crime, and that is the way it is, and we can of course support this proposal, which we hope, even with the Minister for Justice's words here from the start, can be implemented in one way or another. It is understandable, of course, that there may be details and that there may be technicalities in what needs to be fully in place in order for this to work on the part of the government, but I am at least pleased that there seems to be a broad consensus and commitment that this proposal must of course be implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301155554	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301155611	Thank you so much. Most things have been said about this from the platform today. We have all been, I think, sitting and watching the Britta Nielsen case and probably also a little puzzled that, when she has cheated on so much money, you could not, what to say, get the money that she had left on her pension. Because I think that basically it violates the sense of justice of a lot of people, that if you have cheated and, what to say, taken from the box, as she has done in this case, it is not possible to get that money back to some extent. So we support this motion for a resolution and look forward both to the committee procedure and also to the work that I could understand from the Minister for Justice that he will initiate in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301155700	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301155708	Thank you. This is a good motion for a resolution from the Left and we shall vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301155719	Then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left, Danish Liberal Party. It's a nice long name so you can get up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301155730	Thank you. Former rapporteurs have made it short, and that is why there is no reason to do so too far. Let me stress, however: the proposal here today is trying to put up a barrier to stealing money and then placing it in pension accounts, after which the person who has the money for it will not be able to get hold of it. That's not fair. It can be said so simply, and it has also been said so simply by other rapporteurs. I am not going to repeat the specific case, since people know it. 113 million kr. I have to say that it is totally offensive if you can sweeten old age with capital and rate pensions in a situation where you have run with so much money from the Treasury, even money that should have been passed on to the weakest in society. So, yeah, I appreciate the support. Thank you. It has been mentioned that there may be certain concerns. I didn't get to know what concerns there are. I do not think there is much to talk about here, even after the things that came out in the Chamber. I noted that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party mentioned that the principle should actually be extended not only to situations where enrichment crimes have been committed, but also to situations in which the pension holder, the account holder, owes money in general. That is a proposal that can be assessed later. I must stress that this proposal, which we have today, relates only to the situation of enrichment crime, where money has been made in a criminal way. Whether this should be extended to other situations where money is owed to private individuals must depend on a later treatment. So with these words, I'd like to thank you for the nice reception around here. I have noted the Minister for Justice's remarks that it may be difficult to reach in this Assembly to make the necessary proposal or proposals. I fully understand that. It's complex once we get into the section of the Code of Procedure in this area. That is why I am assuming that we in the committee will have it adjusted in some way so that we can have the consensus rubbed and make this a change to the law on justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301160007	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301160011	Thank you. I'm sorry I was late. So I just want to take this opportunity to say to the Left and Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen that Enhedslisten supports the proposal. We also have some concerns. If I am late, I have not heard what the other parties have said, but we are also looking forward to participating very actively in the committee's proceedings on this proposal from the Left, where we at least fully agree with the intentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301160035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301160038	Well, I can only say thank you for those nice words. Despite the fact that Mrs Rosa Lund was not present, she is following up very well others who have also had concerns, but, like Mrs Rosa Lund, she has not just published the concerns. But we are looking at it in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301160054	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur and then I would like to say to Mrs Rosa Lund that there is an opportunity to take the floor now, if Mrs Rosa Lund wishes. Mrs. Rosa Lund has said what was necessary. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301160121	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice. I see that the rapporteur is not here. We need to hear what the chairman of the group says. There is a rapporteur coming from the Danish People's Party, so the Minister of Justice is allowed to start here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301160207	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution suggests that the Folketing instructs the government to take all necessary steps, as it says, to ensure that there is no obsolescence in imposing legal liability on ministers and officials in all matters examined in the mink case. In the view of the government, it is a superfluous proposal and probably most of the expression of political teasing. Let me try to explain why. Following its mandate, the Mink Commission has been asked to complete its investigation within one year of its reduction, i.e.: by the end of April 2022. The supplementary commission on police use of action card shall request the Commission to organise its work in such a way that the Commission may submit a sub-report on this matter by 1 July 2022 at the latest. Therefore, according to the current timetable, the Mink Commission is expected to be fully completed by 1 July of this year at the latest. It follows from the rules on limitation periods in the Criminal Code that any criminal liability for officials shall, as a starting point, be barred after two years and any criminal liability for ministers shall be barred in accordance with the rules laid down in the Ministerial Act after at least five years. As you know, disciplinary responsibility shall not be barred in principle. On the basis of the current timetable for the work of the Mink Commission, there is therefore no reasonable risk of any limitation of liability. So the question is whether, in reality, there is perhaps a different reason for the resolution. And I wonder if it should be found in the ongoing suspicion of the government and the motives of the mink case and an attempt to keep the pot boiled at that point. Let me repeat what I and the government have said many times in this process: it is and it has always been in the interest of the government to have this matter investigated. That is why we also supported the decision that the process of killing all minks should be examined. The government also supported the amendment of the rules on committees of inquiry so that the Folketing could set up a committee of inquiry for the purpose. But the party of the proposers and other parts of the bourgeois camp already knew in the spring how to deal with this matter, by voting in favour of a proposal to raise an impeachment case, even though the Commission, which the party of the proposers has helped to reduce, had barely begun its investigation, and I think that speaks for itself. Then I would like to turn to the general question, namely whether it is appropriate to regulate the liability rules for a specific pending case. Some of you will know that it is not long ago that the issue of the limitation of criminal liability under the law of ministerial responsibility was negotiated here in the Assembly Hall. It was in March last year when we first dealt with the motion for a resolution B 145 tabled by the Radical Left on the extension of the minimum limitation period for criminal liability under the law of ministerial responsibility. There is a crucial difference between the resolution first dealt with today and what was first dealt with in March last year, namely that the resolution before us today concerns a specific pending case, in particular the case currently being examined under the auspices of the Mink Commission. In this way, the implementation of the motion for a resolution will require me to see worrying steps to adopt specific legislation which may concern liability in a specific case which is currently being examined. The government therefore believes that the motion for a resolution is superfluous and that the legislative power should not regulate responsibility for a specific case pending. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. On the other hand, what I said during the debate on the aforementioned motion for a resolution B 145 is still valid in this Chamber last March. The Government is prepared to examine whether the limitation periods laid down in the Ministerial Responsibility Act have been set in an appropriate manner. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights did not manage to finalise the resolution in the last session, but it does not, of course, change the fact that in the course of the investigation and subsequent impeachment proceedings, questions have been raised as to the appropriateness of the rules in force on the limitation of ministerial liability. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to confirm that the government is prepared to examine whether the statute of limitations laid down in the Law of Ministerial Responsibility has been properly established. The government will involve external experts to make its recommendations for changes in autumn 2022, i.e. this year, with a view to a subsequent political discussion with the parties behind a report on the motion for a resolution. The discussion will form the basis for the submission of a bill in the next session of the Assembly. It's in my optics the right way to do it. We are looking at the general rules rather than discussing symbolic legislation on pending individual cases. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301160715	There is a question from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301160719	Thank you. I'd like to take the Justice Minister back for a little year in relation to our work here. He will recall that there was an enormous haste in relation to the Left's desire to initiate the impeachment proceedings against Mrs Inger Løjberg. This haste was precisely justified by the fact that the limitation period was imminent. So I simply do not understand, when we have experience, where the Minister of Justice himself, his party and his parliamentary support parties have been pressed by limitation periods in order to have a political opponent convicted at the Court of Justice, how it can be said at all that this is not also a problem here in relation to the current case. In other words, the fact that the Danish Parliament has set up this committee of inquiry of the entire Minkskan Valley and the way the government has dealt with it emphasizes the need to suspend the limitation periods. Because one cannot imagine that a red majority supporting the government we have here today should start an impeachment case. I assume that we agree that this is something that can be expected to take longer, so we will have a time problem with the five years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301160836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301160837	But there is the essential difference that B 145 was formulated a little more intelligently than the present proposal, namely as a general regulation and not as a specific regulation. And then we just have to see that the law of ministerial responsibility has a five-year limitation period. Why was it originally done this way? This was done in order to avoid it being within a four-year period, so that the same political majority could deal with the issue. That was precisely the situation with regard to the matter of the Instructor's Commission, namely that the majority who did not want to take any action before the elections had to see that the situation had changed after the elections, so that it was possible to get through with the Instructor's Commission and the subsequent imposition of liability, which showed that the system of five years' limitation at least in that case worked. However, I have already said that I am prepared to look generally at the rules on the limitation of ministerial responsibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301160933	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301160934	But when the Minister for Justice says that he will look at the rules in general, that means that he is willing to look at the rules, except for the current case. Because I assume that if the statute of limitations is changed in the law of ministerial responsibility, it is something that is being done from the time when the change comes into force and not with retroactive effect. So can the Minister of Justice comment on it and confirm that if you have to look at these rules, he will also do so so that the suspension of limitation periods or the extension of limitation periods will have an impact on the Prime Minister or on the current mink survey?
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161012	No, what I said was that we are prepared, the government is prepared to look at the rules of limitation in the law of ministerial responsibility, i.e. whether they are appropriate, and that we will use external experts. And then I said that, in the autumn of 2022, we are going to have a political discussion with the parties behind the report on this proposal on how it should be properly organized in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161040	We thank the Minister for Justice and move on to the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161057	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor. What the proposers want with this motion for a resolution is to make special laws on liability in one specific case pending, namely the mink case, and I would like to start by stating that this is not a proposal that we can support in the Social Democratic Party. The Minister for Justice has already mentioned why the motion for a resolution is superfluous. First of all, as the Minister for Justice has also explained, we are not close to the obsolescence of the specific case to which this motion for a resolution refers, and in relation to the specific case, I can mention that the government has always been concerned with examining the specific case as quickly as possible. To this end, a completely new and fast-working type of committee of inquiry has been set up, namely a committee of inquiry. Since the proposal here is quite clearly superfluous, one might of course ask whether the proposal is in fact a desire for something other than to promote what is stated in the proposal, namely a desire to keep the mink case alive, a desire for us to discuss the mink case here again. This resolution is then used as an excuse for taking a debate on the mink case, and I do not think that is very serious. Summa summarum: As the Minister for Justice has said, it is not so long ago that we discussed the rules of limitation in this Chamber for ministerial accountability. It was with the motion for a resolution called B 145 and it was in March last year. In this context, we had a discussion on extending the deadlines, and this was, as we remember, a general discussion which did not aim to adopt specific legislation on possible liability in a pending and specific case. At that time, the Minister for Justice said that he was prepared to look at the limitation periods, and the Minister for Justice has also repeated this today. This is not something we should do with a snap or a motion for a resolution because we have a certain attitude on a particular matter. This requires more thorough consideration, so that we arrive at a proper and well-thought-out solution. That is why it is also positive that the Minister for Justice has just indicated that we want to involve external experts, so that we can have a more in-depth discussion on the issues that arise from a discussion which may result in some well-thought-out rules. I think that is the factual and proper way of doing this. With those words, I can say that we cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161334	There's a question. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161337	Of course, it is not a great surprise that the Socialist rapporteur agrees with his Foreign Minister, but it may be that the Socialist rapporteur can say a little more than the Minister for Justice did in relation to the willingness to review the rules. Because if you want to review the rules, so that there may not be a limitation period, that is what we have in some delicts in the criminal code or that you are willing to prolong the limitation period, is that something that will also include those who are currently under investigation or scrutiny in connection with the mink case, that is to say officials or, of course, officials and perhaps even more relevant ministers?
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161411-2	I think it is important that when we talk about obsolescence in this or other matter, we do so at a general level, and that is why I think it is sensible to ensure that we get experts in to clarify how we do it best. So it is a discussion that we would very much like to take, but I think we should take it further to the recording that comes from the good people that we are asking to look at this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161433	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161434	Now, then, we have the government of the people and not the government of experts in this country, and if not Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen remembers it, so he is one of the people who has pointed to it, and therefore it is more interesting to hear what he thinks than what some expert thinks. Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, that we must suspend the limitation periods, or does he think that it would be okay for the Prime Minister, before 1 June, to issue a parliamentary election, to have a red majority in his back and thus to avoid being put before an impeachment, because of course she can distribute some chunks and some legs to her parliamentary support parties, so that they may help her through things? Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, that this would be a fair way of managing things?
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161513	I believe that the proposal we are debating today, on a serious scale, is just about the level that the proposal had, where an overall blue block, without any kind of investigation, decided that the Prime Minister should be impeached. Maybe this proposal is just marginally above it, but it's not much. I look forward to having a discussion on the issue of obsolescence at a general level and on an enlightened basis. This proposal is not serious and that is why we do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161542	We thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161554	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this debate, which we are very positive about. It is natural for us not, of course, to allow cases under investigation to be barred. In general terms, we believe that the limitation periods should be looked at, and that is why we think so in this particular case too. When any case is examined, one should of course be able to pause a time limit so that there can be no advantage in obsolescence, so that we are positive about continuing the very open discussions envisaged in the motion for a resolution on how we can achieve results.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161644	There are no questions. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line and the next one is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161703	In the spring of 2021, the Mink Commission was set up and the Commission is now in full swing to uncover the situation and progress of the case. In the meantime, we in the Committee on Inquiry have agreed to examine also the situation regarding the so-called action cards of the police. The Danish People's Party, in its motion for a resolution here, wants the Danish Parliament to instruct the government to ensure that there is no limitation period for ministers or civil servants' legal liability regarding the matters examined in the mink case. This may be a reasonable ambition, but unlike in the instructional case, where we looked directly into a limitation period and thus got an accelerated course, there is not a deadline here immediately ahead of us in the same way. The Mink Commission has been asked to complete its investigation within a year, and that is to say. Before the end of April of this year I think it is due to June. And in the extra mandate on the use of the so-called actioncards by the police, it is suggested that the Commission organises the work so that a report can be submitted by 1 July at the latest. So we have also discussed this matter in the past, and it is already the case that we actually agree that we have to start work on these limitation periods, which is why it is difficult to see what more this proposal should contribute. I look forward to the work of the committee, where I think we can make a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161833	There is a question from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161835	I just think there are a lot of people who are interested in what that report should contain. Because we can easily make a report as long as the content is right, and what we want is to suspend the limitation periods, so that the Prime Minister cannot, by winning a parliamentary election, perhaps before the time when the Review Commission concludes, refuse to come before an impeachment which she, together with others, arranged for Mrs Inger Nøjberg. So is that what Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt is thinking about when she talks about a report, or is it rather just putting the matter aside so as to avoid all that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161913	But what we in the SF are concerned with is that we will have a longer limitation period in relation to the law of ministerial responsibility, and that is especially because the Commission of Instructors turned out to be very, very close to that deadline, and we find that problematic, that is, if several members of each other sitting in the same majority in fact sit and block a case from being examined, as was the case in the case in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161940	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301161941	But fortunately, it is quite rare that we have these investigations leading towards impeachment. That is why, of course, it calls for a special interest whether the Socialist People's Party is also prepared, in the context of the report that we would like to make, to ensure that the suspended obsolescence rules also apply to the ongoing investigation, or whether that is something that is only supposed to apply to future cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162004	Well, I can't assess the consequences of that. Normally, you make forward-looking rules and not backward-looking rules. I now have no reason to believe that in the mink case we will not have a decision within a very long time and know how we are faced with that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162025	Then there is a question from Mr. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162027	It is only because I have to be quite sure whether it could theoretically be problematic that the rules that could then be agreed should apply to the current government in the specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162043	Well, I think the rapporteur knows that normally we do not make backwards rules; we do not make rules for cases that are in process or that have happened. This could apply to future cases, but I have no reason to believe that there would be problems with this case. In the SF we have at least the same basis that we set in motion both an Instructor's Commission and a Mink Commission, and that is when there is a basis for it. And we're going to follow it to the end too, so I don't think the Left needs to be worried here. I do not know the consequences of introducing them backwards, but that is something we are usually careful about, and I think the rapporteur knows that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162129	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162130	That is unthinkable, especially for the ministers. So there is also a section of officials that can be looked at; in any case, complaints must be lodged by November. However, in the unthinkable situation, I just cannot understand that there should be any doubt that this should of course also apply to the current government in the present case. It is quite extraordinary if we delay the matter so much that it can be discussed, so it should be quite obvious, I think, but that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162201	It may well be that the rapporteur has doubts. I also remember that it was the rapporteur's party that was ready to vote in favour of impeachment without the process being completed. And I think that could be quite problematic in a democracy. This is like skipping the investigation completely with the police in all sorts of other cases; no one can imagine that either. I just think that the rapporteur must take my word that we will, of course, pursue this matter if there is anything in it, and it is totally independent of who wins an election. I can be more in doubt about what is happening on the bourgeois side; at least I think we have seen a dull course up to the Instructor's Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162240	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162241	We do not need to fight over whether the blue majority in the 2015-2019 parliamentary term did anything wrong by not going into an investigation into what became the Instructor's Commission later on and the impeachment case against Mrs Inger Løjberg. With that concession, we can move on to the next point. If there is a hard criticism of the Prime Minister or other ministers out of the Mink Commission's investigation, one could risk a red majority saying: 'Well, it is the Prime Minister of the country and so on, and perhaps it wasn't her fault at all, and perhaps it was Mogens Jensen who planned it all at those Coordination Committee meetings. Then it would be a pity that there could not be an impeachment on it in a parliamentary term after that, if the Reds were to win the next election again because it was obsolescence. Wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162345-2	Yes, but this whole question is based on a premise that the red parties will delay a possible impeachment. So far, we've got a lot of time. We don't have a burning platform and don't have to make backward-looking rules, what you don't normally do. It is just a principle of legal certainty that you do not. I have no wish for this matter to be dragged over so that it cannot lead to a possible impeachment, if that is what must be the conclusion of the Commission's report when it comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162417	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162418	We have the general rule that there is obsolescence after five years. What we are discussing here is whether to change into something more, because we think it is problematic if, over a few legislative periods, we can postpone something that makes things obsolete so that there will never be an impeachment. This proposal will ensure that, regardless of whether there are such desires, it will certainly not happen in the mink case. The Mink case must not be postponed if there is now the same majority after the next elections. Then the question is whether the SF will support that it cannot theoretically happen in the mink case either, because it is simply too important that this matter should also be examined by the Court of Justice if the criticism is serious.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162501-2	I know that the right wing will have introduced all sorts of extraordinary rules in all sorts of strange ways... impeachment cases and rules with retroactive effect. I do not think we are going to participate in this unless the assessment is that it is completely unproblematic. I think it's a break with the way you usually go to this. And now I would just like to remind you that it is not SF that has blocked the creation of an Instructor's Commission and that could be investigated. And we're not gonna block this from getting its own course when we know the outcome of it either. I think that's the big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162540	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and since the rapporteur of the Radicals is not here, the next one is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162607	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have said, we have, fortunately, discussed the limitation periods in the law of ministerial responsibility before. We actually discussed it last year, also in March. And I really think that the way the law is built up is a problem, namely that if the same majority regains power, one can block an investigation and one can block a possible impeachment, but the most important thing is that one can block things to the bottom, which is of course the most important thing. And more importantly, it is possible to block the accountability of a minister, regardless of the position of the minister. That is why I am also pleased that last March there was a majority to look at these rules, and I personally have a great frustration at the fact that that motion for a resolution was not immediately moved by the Ministry of Justice or the Minister of Justice. I would have thought that was the best thing. This has not been done, but what is now happening on the basis of this motion for a resolution is, as I understand from the Minister and from the Socialist rapporteur, that the bill will come to the next session, and we very much look forward to it in the Enhedslisten. I think we need to look at these limitation periods, and I think it is very nice that there are so many parties who are concerned about this being able to hold ministers to account. Having said that, we in the Enhedslisten are not in favour of making special legislation. Nor are we in favour of legislation being made retroactively. And this is an attempt to make a special law, and we in the Enhedslist do not agree that we should do that on ongoing cases, either in connection with the law of ministerial responsibility or all kinds of other laws for that matter. It is a good principle and it is a good principle of legal certainty that we do not make legislation with retroactive effect. That is why the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal as it stands, but we would very much like to contribute to producing a report based on the points and concerns raised in connection with the proposal here. And I want to make it very clear from this that it is a prerequisite for Enhedslisten to be included in such a report that the Ministry of Justice guarantees that they are now moving on to these things. It can't just lie in a jar for a whole year again, it just can't work. I understand, of course, the concern of you who have tabled the proposal and of the other rapporteurs in this Chamber for what this means, because, as other rapporteurs have also mentioned, we have seen it before. This was the case with former Foreign Minister Mrs Inger Løbberg, who was a political majority who tried to cover up the violation of the law of ministerial responsibility by the Foreign Minister, and that is what we want to avoid happening again. So I fully understand the concern, but I do not believe that special legislation is the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162931	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. We move on to Mrs Mai Mercado, Conservative, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301162947	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for and having tabled this motion for a resolution. All other things being equal, after the discussions we had in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, it should not have been necessary to table this motion for a resolution, because then we would have been in a process where there had been a draft law and where we were aware of when it would be tabled on when to pause a limitation period while a Commission inquiry is being carried out. It is, in fact, a wise bill that is on the way, as long as we now have a committee of inquiry in progress. The problem which it is examining is thus well-chosen for the type of Commission investigation, namely a examining commission. This is a relatively limited, narrow issue, which takes place over a relatively narrow period. That is why it makes sense to set up a commission to investigate this for a year. That study will then be completed this summer. However, there may well be other matters which might actually require or where it might be useful that one could actually dive further down. One could have a Commission study which went over a longer period of one year, two years, perhaps even three years, and where, for fear that the limitation period would be exceeded, it would not choose the appropriate Commission study for this type of problem. That is why it is good that such a bill has been announced. It is just not good enough for us now and here to be unaware of exactly when it is being put forward. That is why it is also a good proposal made by the Danish People's Party and thank you for it. We are happy to support that. And to this extent I agree with the principle which Enhedslisten also raised, namely that it is quite unwise to take decisions on such a motion for a resolution. But, on the other hand, when we choose to support it, it is because the consideration that we get to the bottom of this matter, because we just weigh heavier. That is what means that we have ultimately chosen to support this motion for a resolution, which is, moreover, well written. And thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301163227	We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301163234	It is a great pity to us in New Citizens that the rules that apply to the limitation period in relation to this motion for a resolution are as they are. I believe that a limitation period of five years is too short because a political majority can delay the initiation of investigations into these cases. The political intentions and wishes behind the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party fully share with New Citizens. It is not fair that there should be a limitation period which allows one to get around one's responsibilities, even if one is the object of being examined in a commission of inquiry, and certainly not in the mink case, which is among the biggest political scandals of recent times. However, new citizens feel that the scope of the resolution should be changed to include future cases. It is therefore the opinion of the New Citizen that there should be no limitation period in relation to imposing legal liability on ministers and civil servants in matters examined under the Law on Investigation Commissions and Investigation Commissions, or in matters which it is the subject of a public law investigation. We therefore propose an amendment to the effect that the motion for a resolution is not limited to the mink case. New citizens can support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301163356	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301163357	Thank you. I do not think it can be any different from the fact that, in cases where an impeachment is brought against a minister for not having administered under the law, it must be the Folketing that initiates such a case, because the alternative would be that it was a court which is ultimately subject to the Ministry of Justice in some form or form, and we cannot have the Minister of Justice having the right to pursue political opponents. That's why the Folketing is doing this. This then gives rise to the dilemma that if a majority of the parliament wants to hold hands over a minister who may have committed something illegal, it can be done and if this majority of the parliament's election by election continues to win power in the Folketing, something that is a potential illegality cannot be investigated in a court of law because this majority will not allow its minister to investigate. The limitation period provided for in the legislation is that after five years this cannot be done at all. This ensures that, in turn, over a parliamentary election, you can initiate things, but it does not ensure that you can initiate things if it is the same majority that regains power in the parliamentary elections. That is why this work is under way, but which the government continues to postpone, to change the limitation period, and we hear here today that both the government and the government's support party, the SF, do not want it to have retroactive effect when changing the limitation period. In other words, the possible crime committed by ministers in the mink case could not be investigated by a future blue majority if this blue majority did not materialise in the next parliamentary term, because there is a limitation period of five years, regardless of the fact that things are being done about the future. The motion for a resolution here takes account of the fact that there should not be such a limitation period specifically in the mink case, recognising that this is a very important matter, a very comprehensive case and a rather unheard-of case in Danish legislation and Danish politics. We need to support this, because we are nervous that this very extraordinary mink case will be hit by a limitation period if the blue parties fail to win the next parliamentary elections. You can't know with a hundred percent certainty that we do. That is why we want to ensure that there is no obsolescence in the mink case by voting through this motion for a resolution. That is why we are voting in favour of the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301163710	We thank the rapporteur. There are no questions. We shall now move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr von der Vring. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301163720	Thank you, President. It is not the first time in the history of Denmark that impeachment cases have been raised about the failure of ministers to comply with the law, but it is, as I just remember, the first time in the history of Denmark that we are talking about ministers' contempt for the Constitution. This means that this case, which is fundamentally about a government's arbitrary expropriation of an entire profession, is quite unique. With the approach to power that has been seen by this government, I do not think it takes a lot of imagination to imagine the situation of speculating on the election of a parliament so that we can subsequently bypass the limitation period, perhaps by extending the government by some parties, which will then have to ensure that no case can be brought before the limitation period, or otherwise political action. It is an old-fashioned case that many political scandals or problem cases might have been resolved quickly, but that is the attempt to cover up those who then end up being the culprits. But right here it is all about law, and there is actually the possibility, if you just let it go long enough, that you can get off the hook, namely if you can convince a majority in the Folketing long enough that there is no need to raise a case. Because it's in these cases, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen mentioned that the Danish Parliament is acting not as legislator but as prosecutor. This creates some dilemmas, and it creates some extraordinary circumstances, which therefore also require us to do something extraordinary, especially in this case, where it is a violation or a potential violation of the explicit legal requirements of the Constitution in Article 73 on expropriation. Of course, even in the light of the fact that a committee of inquiry has been set up, it could well be said that limitation periods are being suspended. It is simply for the abuse of the political power that can take place by the fact that the Folketing is not only a legislator but also a prosecutor. I also think that it must be in the interests of the government, so that the whole talk and the whole fear that is in broad parts of Danish society, so that you want to abuse the opportunity to simply make the time pass, can fade away, so that we can end all parts of the matter in good order. We don't know what the investigation commission is gonna conclude. It may well be that, after that conclusion, whether it comes in May or June or when it may be, there is a need for further investigation. It can well be imagined that it is both going into the limitation period that applies to civil servants, but also, as a matter of fact, to ministers. There it is a little disconcerting to hear an unison left-wing say that one can understand that is a problem, that is to say for everyone but oneself. That is really what you say when you say that you want to look at the obsolescence rules, but only forward-looking, not in relation to the case that is the first of its kind in the history of Denmark, where a government with open or semi-closed eyes, perhaps a little in its sleep, but whatever is quite clear in my optics, at least within the degree of intent it lies in the law of ministerial responsibility, then aside from the explicit legal requirement of the constitution's expropriation provision. This is a matter which is clearly raised above what we have seen in the past, and whether we are talking about old times and Sigurd Berg or we are talking about Ninn-Hansen, or we are talking about Inger Nøjberg, this is a very special case and therefore it should also be tackled in a very special way. That is why, of course, I welcome the support which the bourgeois parties have jointly given here today. Similarly, one must be sad that the message from the red block has not been as encouraging. We will continue to pursue this matter, which we believe is both for the sake of the mink growers, but also for the sake of the constitution and I must say that the reputation of the Danish Parliamentarises must be followed all the way to the door, regardless of how the red, yellow and green buttons may shine at second reading. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301164205	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220301164220	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 2 March 2022, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
