ParlaMint-DK_20220208130002	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208130012	I give the floor immediately to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208130018	First, a word about the increasingly worrying situation in and around Ukraine. The pressure and aggressive behaviour we see from Russia are totally unacceptable. This is the most serious security policy crisis in Europe since the end of the Cold War, and it is not only for Ukraine, but also for European security and therefore global stability. On the Danish side, we follow the situation closely, and we do so together with our allies in NATO and the European Union. We help to ensure, and we must also be on the Danish side, that the Russians will be robust. It must be quite clear to the Kremlin that penetration into Ukraine will have massive political and economic consequences. At the same time, NATO must be prepared to safeguard the security of the Allies. Denmark is shouldering its share of the responsibility and we are following the situation closely. We have sent fighter planes to the Baltic, we have extended our frigate contribution to NATO's standing naval forces, and this morning Denmark's Chief of Defense has launched a series of actions that strengthen our national preparedness and, at the same time, enable us to bid further for the common defence on the day it may be necessary. We cannot and must not stand idly by when fundamental principles of European security are challenged. From great concerns on the European scene to happily brighter prospects at home. Today it is exactly one week since we, as one of the first countries in the world, were able to put all the Corona restrictions behind us. Denmark is open, everyday life is back, and now we can really look forward. We have to, among other things. do in health care. Despite the fact that we have had a pandemic now for almost 2 years, most Danish patients have, fortunately, received the treatment they should have, quite normally. This is, of course, particularly true in the life-threatening and acute areas. However, as the Minister for Health also made clear yesterday, there are some 100,000 non-time critical operations that have been postponed since the summer. This is a situation we must take seriously here in the Folketing. Danes are waiting for example. a knee or hip surgery or cataract surgery. These are operations which are not, under normal conditions, acute, but they are operations which can have a real impact on the everyday life, everyday life and quality of life of the individual. We need to get rid of the backlog that is inevitably built up. We're gonna have to wait down. From the government's point of view, we have indicated to the regions that they will cover the cost of treating patients so that this does not affect other activities in our healthcare system. We will now discuss this with Danske Regions, so that we quickly and as quickly as possible will have the operations completed so that we can get back to more normal health care conditions. We also look forward when it comes to the climate and the green transition. The next step is a new and ambitious tax on CO2 It must ensure that the companies that burden the climate pay for their own emissions. And it must speed up the transition in the Danish economy at all. All companies will have to choose a climate-friendly production in the future, and the emissions of CO 2 A CO 2 And it is my clear expectation that Danish business can and will contribute. Earlier today, a few hours ago, the group of experts on green tax reform came up with its recommendations for a new CO2 This is a really, really important and qualified input for our further political discussion, to which the government will now call the parties. I hope that we can continue the good and broad cooperation on the green transformation of Denmark. Over the past 21⁄2 years, we have together made more than 50 climate agreements and green action plans, and this has led us more than halfway to achieving our fortunately very ambitious climate targets, that is, one of the most ambitious targets in the world. We have achieved much, but not at all enough, and that is why we are now ready to take the next important steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208130457	Thank you, Prime Minister. We are now engaged in dialogue with the party leaders. It's first, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208130506	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the introduction on three important issues. It is no secret that I am very fond of the Danish defence, and since the change of government there has been a wealth of bad things, and it pains me. There has been the chaotic withdrawal from Afghanistan; there has been the whole FE affair; there has been the lack of brigade; there has been the lonely pirate mission where local agreements were lacking; there has been the withdrawal of soldiers from Mali most recently, almost immediately after they arrived. There's something totally, totally wrong with this, and it doesn't deserve our defense. These are men and women who stand up every day and go to work and risk their lives for our country, for our freedom. At the same time, the world around us has become more uncertain, as the Prime Minister also mentions. There is a need for strong cohesion across Europe. There is a need for strong cohesion across the Western world. I welcome the fact that the Prime Minister has changed his tone, including now in the introduction. There is a greater focus on working together in Europe. There is a greater focus on engaging internationally. I would just like to say that we are in complete agreement on the part of the Left. The Prime Minister has also appointed a new Minister of Defence who took over today, and I think it provides the opportunity for a new start for Danish defence. I would therefore like to raise my hand, and I would like to suggest that we meet across the parties of the Folketing, because this is something that is urgent and that we are now launching our negotiations on the next defence settlement. I believe that defence deserves a settlement in which we look forward, where we commit ourselves to having a realistic and long-term plan for how we fulfil our promise to NATO. So will the Prime Minister accept the outstretched hand and advance the negotiations and open a new chapter for Danish defence?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208130726	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208130728	It is very good to hear that the Left backs the activist Danish foreign policy. That is what I think the Left is doing. We may be outside the agreement on police and criminal justice, and that is shameful in itself, but, of course, the Left does not shy away from the broad commitment to Danish defence and security policy, so I have used that as a basis all along. We are preparing for a new defence settlement. This requires proper analytical work. Personally, I have no doubt that we will have to spend more money on Danish defence, not only in order to continue to have the Wales Declaration as our objective, but also because it is necessary in the troubled world in which we live. The new Minister for Defence will call on the Defence Committee to start the dialogue and debate on how to proceed with the forthcoming defence settlement. So, yes, an invitation is sent for that. I would like to arrest one thing, and that is that you stand and say that there is something completely, quite wrong in Danish defence. I do not agree with that at all, and our soldiers do not deserve to hear it, our senders do not deserve it, they do not deserve Danish defence. And here, where we are faced with the most serious situation in Danish foreign and security policy since the end of the Cold War, that is not the right approach at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208130850	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208130851	I think our defense deserves to be treated with respect. I think our defenses expect to be treated with respect. These are men and women who risk their lives every day they go to work. It is people whose work place is described by the government as a government which is treated so derogatoryly and so stepmotherly by the government that it has finally taken the consequence and changed into the defence minister's post. Frankly, I think that there should be room for us to debate and discuss politically, and I welcome the fact that negotiations on a new defence settlement will begin because that is what I hear the Prime Minister say and that we will do so now. Can the Prime Minister confirm that negotiations on the next defence settlement will now be convened?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208130944	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208130945	I can confirm what I have already said, namely that we are preparing. This requires a great deal of analytical work, and of course the government wants to involve the parties of the Folketing in it, so that we can prepare and initiate negotiations for a new defence settlement in the best possible way. And yes, the Danish defense deserves respect... it does each individual in the Danish defence, and it does the defense under one, and with all due respect it is therefore with the situation we are facing today........... I am of course not going to decide what you are debating in the Parliament hall..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is one thing that is crucial, both in general terms, but also here now, and that is to back up Danish defences and back up the decisions that need to be taken. I think what the Chief of Defense is doing today in strengthening Danish preparedness is wise. We have already sent our contribution to NATO and have a desire that, if needed, we contribute further. What is needed in the West today is seriousness, thoroughness, orderlyness and respect for the people who carry out some of the hardest tasks for us, and then it is unity and consensus that is not all else.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131051	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131053	It looks like we're gonna get an agreement there, 'cause if there's something I have, it's respect. We have a different situation with regard to our intelligence services. We currently have the former Chief of Defence Intelligence in prison on the third month without anyone knowing why. All we know is that this is about section 109 of the Criminal Code on treason. At the same time, we have a highly estimated member of the Left Parliament Group, sir. Claus Hjort Frederiksen, former Minister of Defence, former Minister of Finance and Employment in this country... a man I've known almost my whole life... who has dedicated his life to this country... charged with treason. It draws a picture abroad, both among our allies and among those who are the opposite of the fact that we do not quite manage it. I fully agree with the Prime Minister that we should not comment on the content of this matter, but on the process, what will the Prime Minister do to clarify this for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131204	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131206	No, it is precisely not a matter suitable for the Parliamentary Assembly, and certainly not given that both the questioner and the answerer are aware of the content of the matter. It is precisely the case that the President of the Left is, of course, informed of the content of this matter, just as it should be in a democracy, and I would actually strongly recommend that, in the situation we are facing, Danish defence should not be politicised, and certainly not the Defence Intelligence Service.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131234	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. The question is over. Then we move on to the next party leader. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131246	Thank you, President. It is a bit of a slaraffenland to suddenly be met as a new party leader here to be allowed to meet, yes, the entire government's leadership, who has come forward I do not imagine it is to my credit but, of course, to be particularly allowed to meet the Prime Minister. It is also something that has called for a great deal of reflection that such an opportunity should be used for this purpose. There is, of course, the defence agreement, but that is what my honourable colleague has already said, and we are entirely in favour of the Left's desire to bring forward the time when we can get these negotiations started. After all, there will be a demonstration in the Palace Square, where people are worried about how new EU rules are going to do it for our pets and so on, but with an eye on how the government has handled the minks, I dare not start talking about rabbits at all. And, of course, there is a very different question: on immigration policy, where it would be obvious to ask: how is it going with the asylum camp, to which an answer had been promised and so on?? But we know very well from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration that we will not get an answer to that anyway. So I actually think I will be inspired by what I experienced for the first time yesterday, when I had one of the few privileges that the Prime Minister does not have, and that is to be invited to call the opposition in DR. For some of the things that were asked a lot from citizens out there and which I would therefore like to be a catalyst for the country's leader to deal with is why a solution has not yet been found in relation to the galloping price increases, especially on the heating bills around the country. It is more than 4 months since the Danish People's Party raised this to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. No solution has yet been found. There are people out there who have no idea how to pay for their gas bills, in other words also for their electricity bills, and all you hear is chatter and tricks and no solutions. Couldn't the Prime Minister step in and get that case straightened out?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131444	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131446	First of all: warm welcome here to the group of party leaders and thus also to the sessions we have here in the Assembly. And I would actually like to start by signing for the words we have heard from the new chairman of the Danish People's Party, i.e. that the Danish People's Party still wants to be a party that also takes responsibility for making political agreements. We have just made, I think, a very good reform agreement, Denmark can do more I. Denmark, where the Danish People's Party chose to let such ordinary political tactics lie and actually go into the negotiating room and make a good result, and if I do not remember mistakes, the Danish People's Party opposite the Left, which has neither taken responsibility for criminal services nor for the Danish police, has chosen to take responsibility inside the negotiating room, even when things can sometimes be difficult, whether it is funding or on content. And I'm just gonna sign for that. This I have only had an experience with the Danish People's Party over the years, and it is that you can be counted on when you make appointments, and I am very, very happy that the new President has indicated that this is how you want to continue working. With the Parliament, we are looking at at at least some parties... it may be necessary for there to be bourgeois parties that actually continue the course of reform and thus the course of action that is responsible. Thank you. This also applies to energy prices. And I totally agree. There is a need for us to find an answer to some of the Danes who are hard hit by price increases, which have not had an opportunity to seek influence. After all, we are discussing it these days and, in respect of these negotiations, I would like to let the negotiations continue and not go into them here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131619	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131620	I think it would be a good idea for the Prime Minister to intervene precisely in respect of these negotiations, because nothing is happening. Well, the thing is that at the moment we can just see how the account of unused funds for planned support for VE is growing and growing, first it was 2.7 billion. kr., now we're up to 4.9 billion. kr., and yet either the Minister of Finance or his colleagues suck around with quite different rates, and that doesn't work. Well, I suppose the Prime Minister is aware that the unrest, the anxiety out there is growing. Well, people are really thinking about it: how do we get through these gas bills? 10,000 kr., 20,000 kr. is a lot of money for ordinary people. These people have an expectation that we will help them, an expectation that they will be helped, and if not the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply is able to deal with it now in the fourth month, is it too much to ask the Prime Minister to take it seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131716	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131716-2	However, it was a twist in the discussion about the power-perfect government, which respects and recognises the general rules of the game, namely that the government cannot make decisions on its own, one must have a majority in the Folketing. That is why we are calling for political negotiations, and then we are negotiating until there is a result. Should I intervene in it and destroy one of the very cornerstones of it is Danish popular rule? Still, I did not think there would be any calls for this. So, contrary to what the author calls for, I would like to respect and acknowledge the general political rules of the game. There is only one result on the day that there is a majority of political parties and mandates here in the Folketing, who take responsibility for solving a problem, a problem to which we must find a solution. Because I agree that the Danes who are hit by very, very high prices and who may not have the economy to meet it, indeed, we want to help them. But I would urge the parties of the Folketing to stay at that table and find the right solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131811	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131813	Yes, the Prime Minister talks about the foundations of Danish parliamentarianism, but the fact is that while she hesitates and her minister hesitates, it is the foundations of most people's private economy that are at stake. I really think that should be taken and listened to more. So, the thing is that we bourgeois parties have announced that we are ready to spend the money that the Prime Minister's Minister, Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, will not spend in relation to unused subsidies for the VE. And the last time I checked it, it should at least, if the Prime Minister can have his own party and we blue parties can stand together, cover for a majority. So why? What exactly is the challenge in relation to the parliamentary foundations for which the Prime Minister is more concerned than the Danes' private economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131852	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131854	to ask the Prime Minister to undermine Danish democracy. It is probably very good for the Prime Minister to stick to the general rules of the game, and it is therefore that a government cannot make its own decisions; it requires a majority in the Folketing. And, as I know, it is true that a commitment has been made by a number of parties to spend money, but I think that is what has been promised by most parties, but how to finance it, I do not think we have heard much of it yet. And we can't run a country like that. I mean, regardless of how important this is, you can't just keep going, and we see it over and over again, not least from the Left, that you stand up and say: we want to spend more money. But the money has to come from somewhere. There must be a responsible economic policy, we can do that in this country, while at the same time helping some of those who have been relatively badly hit by rising energy prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131939	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. We move forward, and this is now Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208131946	Let me start with a confession. There was a parking ticket on my car this morning, but I just moved it over to another car's window. If it goes, it goes. And it gets even worse. I collected magazines in the garden this weekend, and then I threw them over the hedge to the neighbor. Easy and cheap solution. And yes, I put some garbage from my office into your office, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. I hope you're okay. None of that is true, of course. But like all of you, I'm cleaning up after myself. Of course! But it's not a matter of course. Right now you don't pay for the damage you do on the planet, because that CO2 now we have an opportunity to draw a line in the sand. The polluter must pay, that is the guiding principle of Danish environmental and climate policy from now on. In general, this should be a guiding principle in the green transition and in the green tax reform that we are about to negotiate. Because this isn't just a joke. We are not just facing a future crisis, we are in the middle of it. There are animal species that disappear, crops that no longer thrive where they have always been able to live, fish and other marine animals become homeless in the sea as the temperature rises and melt water changes the salt content of the sea. Snowworms on Greek islands, green Christmas in Nuuk on Greenland a few months ago, floods, violent storms and extreme heat. Our planet is actually changing, and we cannot push it over the hedge to the neighbor, we cannot just put the bill in the windshield of future generations, we cannot dump the problem in the colleague's office. I cannot stress the seriousness enough, and I hope that it is shared by the government. After all, we have now received this report from the government's Green Tax Reform Expert Committee, which is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister agree that green tax reform must ensure and not only contribute to, but must ensure that we achieve the 70-percent target and, incidentally, the 2025 targets?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208132200	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208132201	I really think that question is a rather strange one. It was good that the start wasn't very good in many ways. However, I think that this matter of saying 'ensure', because all the decisions we have taken, and most of them we have taken together, help to ensure that we reach the 70-percent target, whether it is the big agreement on agriculture or whether it is what we have done on road transport, energy efficiency improvements, energy efficiency islands and many other things. After all, it is all put together that makes it realistic for Denmark to achieve the 70-percent target by 2030, because we want it and because we have put the power of action behind it. By the way, we have done this together, not least with the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left, and we are very, very pleased about that. So I see it as a fact that a green tax reform is a very, very important piece, a big piece, an important element in continuing the green transition, taking the next crucial decisions where CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220208132323	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208132325	After all, there are now parts of the green tax reform that the Committee of Experts has included, which also deals with agriculture, among other things. blue diesel in agriculture. But the reason why I am asking this question is that it has to secure it and not only contribute to it is that we have many building blocks, but we are still missing a piece to achieve it, and the big engine will be a CO2 but, in addition, in relation to the green tax reform, there is an important part where I think we will have a very clear disagreement here in the Danish Parliament. It's about how we're going to fund it. For there is no doubt that it may most likely cost some money to make the green transition. And I think that tax reform means that we really do not have to send the bill to welfare, so that we continue to have the opportunity to invest in our children, our elderly people, our hospitals and others, so not to use the room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy, but to use a green tax reform in which the polluter is allowed to pay for that conversion. I would just like to ask whether the Prime Minister agrees that a green tax reform should be carried out without making the scope for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208132434	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208132435	Yes, that is our very clear starting point. We have always warned against the fact that the way to achieve our green ambitions should go through increasing inequality, a large increase in unemployment or huge savings in our welfare societies, because in our view this is not the right way to go, but also because we would not then have the Danish road that we have the opportunity to establish and which we have shown for 21⁄2 years now that we can establish. We are one of the countries in the world that has made the most decisions in this area. We are one of the countries that is long overdue in the necessary fight against climate change. However, we have done this wisely, not least thanks to some of the parties closest to where we are sitting today, because we have also done so with an eye for social cohesion, geographical cohesion and the cohesion of generations. I would really like to appeal to us to continue with that. And then there is a myriad of difficult questions, balances and balances, and we have to take that in the negotiating room, because that is where we are now going to talk CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220208132542	Thank you. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for her last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208132544	We will look forward to that in the SF. There should be no doubt about that. My last question is where to put the heating bill. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt raised the question that many Danes are and are concerned about their heating bills. I will also mention this because I receive immensely many emails from many concerned people who urgently need a helping hand. In fact, this is an appeal to all the parties of the Folketing: let us now find a solution, because it has been negotiated for a very long time. I just think it seems more that the blue block is more concerned with general tax reductions, rather than having a focus on giving a helping hand to those who have the very least in our society. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is this: does the Prime Minister agree that we should give priority to helping them with the lowest incomes, which do not have the opportunity in their budget to just move their money, rather than wiping out the aid in connection with the heating bill so thinly on everyone? And does the Prime Minister agree that it is urgent?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208132643	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208132644	In other words, what is also the government's starting point is not understood to mean that we need to focus only on, for example, the country's pensioners, some of whom are in a vulnerable situation, but fortunately some are not, because you may live in a general housing, which is district heating and where there is no gas involved. The questioner knows everything about the numbers below, namely that it is a little unevenly distributed, who gets the heat bill that weighs on some. But you can also be an ordinary Danish family, where both mother and father may have a low income, but go to work, and where the heating bill can also help to undermine the economic space you need. So I think we should have several different elements in the negotiations. But it is the case in Denmark that there is a minority government and the government cannot make decisions unless there is a majority of the Danish Parliament, and it is the parties of the Danish Parliament who, when we sit in the room, are responsible for of course together with the government; it goes without saying to find the majority to make the decisions that are necessary. And I think that there are some Danes who would like clarification on this question, which I understand by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208132749	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. We are moving forward, and now it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208132759	Thank you. We must continue with a CO2 we look forward to doing so too. I saw that the PM was at Mærsk last week, too. I was, and it is quite impressive that they have advanced their objective of being climate neutral by 2040. So when Mærsk can, we can also in Denmark. But that's something else I'm gonna grab. I really like series, and I really like it now a little out-of-date • The West Wing • The tooth of the time has been a little hard on it, but still • and one of my favorite quotes, and maybe that's why I like the series • that's because I remember the quotes from there; they're short • that Sam Seaborn, one of the president's advisors, says education is the silver bullet, education is everything. It's easy to remember. And he is right: that is simply the most important thing. A few years ago, the Ministry of Finance calculated that in the years following the financial crisis, the increase in admission to higher education will increase our GDP by over 50 billion. kr. in 2030. So education is an investment, but it really pays off, really many times again. Last summer, the government decided, with both red and blue parties, to cut the number of study places in the large cities, and we in the Radical Left, and this also applies to the Liberal Alliance, are not included in the agreement, because the closure of education programmes, from which we need many more, makes us poorer. That is something we can see in very concrete terms. And it will also mean increasing character requirements, so it will be the bookly strong ones who get the places in the cities, and then the rest will have to travel around. There may be a risk that quality will fall and that the research environments will be imported and business may find it harder to find the right people. On e.g. It is the University of Copenhagen Amager they must close a large number of places; among other things. they must close a whole team as it stands on the pharmaceutical education, and that is actually what I would like to ask the Prime Minister. On top of the biggest health crisis in recent times, is that what we need, that is to say, to close an entire team to the pharmaceutical education at the University of Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208133014	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208133016	First of all, I think it is important to emphasise that there is no desire in the government to shut down education. In fact, we have jointly abolished both the training ceiling and the re-priority contribution to training and in other contexts chosen to prioritize training with e.g. freed-up funds in Denmark can more I. So we have a common desire to prioritise education. We also have a wish, and the Radical Left has also applauded this on other occasions, that there are courses throughout Denmark, and everyone in this Chamber knows that if there are not proper educational offers throughout Denmark, and this applies both to primary and secondary education and to a wide range of youth education courses • welfare courses and also to higher education, then we will have too much division of the Danish society. I can see clearly where I come from, namely North Jutland. If not foresighted people then many years ago had insisted on a university in Aalborg, North Jutland would have been something quite different than North Jutland is today. When we decided in the Folketing to set up medical training in Aalborg, there was much criticism of it, and some even said that it is not certain that doctors of high quality can be trained in Aalborg. It could be done, and it has a huge impact on medical coverage in North Jutland. That is why we have a desire to have education throughout the country, and if we want to, we also have to be honest, and so does the Radical Left, and say that we cannot both have all the well-known education in the big city without making some decisions about it and can set up new education in the province, because there are simply not enough young people for that. We have falling adolescences. So if we want you to become a teacher and a nurse and a doctor and an engineer and engineer in all parts of Denmark, we also have to make sure that there are educational offers. That's what we want. We don't have that kind of look at special courses, we want to shut down we don't actually have that. There must of course be a dimensioning, it is clear, but it is with a heartfelt desire that Denmark should hang together, and that, for example, there is a need for a balance between the two. also have to be proper education at Funen, in South Jutland, in North Jutland and in West Jutland, and this requires some of the major cities to grant some degree programmes so that we can cover the whole country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208133219	Here you go, Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208133221	But we share that ambition, and we have also helped to support it. There is Kalundborg, for example, where you build up an engineering education. Of course, some people always don't think you should take anything from somewhere. But it is a question of what to do when reality strikes. Now the University of Copenhagen has announced that they will close this pharmacy education and there will not open a pharmacy education elsewhere. They want to close it because there is no funding for it. I have also heard that there are universities in the United States outside the big cities, yes, there are, but it is a slightly different funding that comes with them than the one that has followed the so-called relocations here. You have to take in reality. We don't have funding the way they have in the United States with Yale and Harvard. It's something completely, completely different. So one has to take stock of reality and therefore my question is very specific: when reality hits, will the government help to relax the reduction requirement for education in large cities so that less education can close down? Because what we've been talking about is that every time they open a seat out there, they close three seats in here. Is that how it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208133328	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208133329	Well, some of it, we're among other things. has suggested that we should have a veterinary education in Jutland. And I think that is an incredibly good idea. And I have actually heard protests about that. I even think that some people have said that it is not certain that the professional environment can be safeguarded. I think that there are good conditions for being able to do so. We want education to be available throughout Denmark. Of course we must do it wisely and properly. There is a group of parties behind this decision and, as I understand the process, the universities have now signed in on how they can see it going on, and then the conciliation circle or circle of parties sits I do not know what the exact term is and looks down into it and, of course, try to piece together something that is as good as possible. But in my view there is no reason why we should have a major political disagreement or conflict between the country and the city in relation to this, because if we want a Denmark that is connected, we know that access to education is one of the most important things. And I really hope we can find a balanced solution to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208133436	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen for one last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208133438	I hope so too, and that is why the questions are: will the agreement be amended? Will these real problems be taken into account so that ITU, for example, does not have to close a large number of IT courses for which there is a huge demand before they open up somewhere else, so that companies will lack even more of that workforce? I would just like to say that it is good to have more veterinary training, for which a professional environment can certainly be established. Veterinary training is much more than a veterinarian for a cow. It is 350 years of veterinary research established in Denmark. This is what has created huge companies like Novo and others that deliver the medical and research solutions to the whole world, of which we are becoming extremely rich. I think we should really be careful about destroying that too. That's why we can build, but we can't destroy it. And that's the reality I'm preoccupied with, too, because it's the one that makes us rich today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208133534	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208133535	I think a balanced solution should be found, and I am sorry that the Radicals, as a party committed to education, are not included in this agreement. Because it would be much better for us to be able to sit together between the parties and find a solution that benefits both one and the other in this matter. We are very, very dependent on strong professional environments, but I can't help but say that at that time good, sensible people would set up Aarhus University They said: You can't make a university work in Jutland. Today we have a strong university in Aarhus. Aalborg University was warned against setting up the RUC and warned against setting up the University of Southern Denmark. And almost every time education has been moved, there have been professional concerns. We are so small a country, and we should also be able to move across distance. And I would like to insist that whether you live in Hjørring, you live in Sønderborg or you live in Frederiksberg, there must be good educational offers • not the same but good educational offers. And that is why I again have an appeal for us to find a balanced solution that benefits everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208133642	Thank you. The question is over. Thanks to Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Then we move on to Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208133652	Thank you. I would like to use Question Time today to ask questions about the foreign policy we have in Denmark and start with a very specific case that the Prime Minister may have read about over the last week. It's about a young woman named Mishti who goes to the 3rd grade at Frederiksberg High School. That's where she has her whole life, and she's even chairman of the party committee. A very short time ago she was suddenly told that she should be sent out of Denmark. She did this because fortunately her mother had come through the needle's eye and had become a Danish citizen. It was fantastic for the family, they thought immediately that the mother became a Danish citizen, but then the daughter stands to be sent out. It was a big shock to this family. And frankly, I also think it seems so crazy, completely baroque that the mother becomes a citizen while the daughter is being sent out. Now her case is being dealt with again, so she hasn't been sent out of Denmark, but there are many others who can get in that squeeze; we've seen that several times. And in fact, the government's Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration was also out about a year and a half ago saying: there is something wrong here that we need to look at. He promised, but nothing happened. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister: when will the change announced by the government come? And can the Prime Minister not see that the restrictions in the field of foreigners have gone too far?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208133825	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208133826	In other words, if I am asked whether, in general terms, I think the austerity has gone too far, then my answer is clearly no. I'm glad I'm proud, I'm happy, I'm grateful that there's a majority in the Danish Parliament who dares put their hands on the hot plate and take responsibility for making things work. Because if we followed the strategy proposed by some parties with a much more lenient foreign policy, Denmark would in the long run not be able to be coherent. We cannot take more people into Denmark than we can integrate, and it does not matter whether we are talking about employment, whether we are talking about crime, whether we are talking about cultural cohesion or whether we are talking about some of the other consequences we see of a wrong immigration policy over too many years. There is a shooting in the streets of Copenhagen and there is a connection with it. Therefore, we need to know how many people come here so that we can support that the people who come here take responsibility for themselves becoming part of Danish society. Does this mean that there can be no individual situations and parts of the legislation that should be looked at? I have not studied the specific case in detail, and I would not recommend that we stand and discuss specific people in the Parliamentary Chamber, but in the question that was raised I have also understood that the minister responsible has said that there is something here that we can look at and a problem that we should resolve together. But generally speaking, if we want a Denmark that is linked and we do not need to see massive repression of women, galloping crime, huge unemployment problems, then we need to pursue a responsible immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134003	Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134004	Well, this just underlines that there is a huge distance between the government and our position in the Enhedslisten... that's all you have to say... and there's a lot I'd like to comment on in the PM's answer to me. However, I am glad that the Prime Minister is standing by and that in this matter, with this very baroque example, we have to look at changing the rules. Another example I would like to raise and I have full respect for not commenting on individual cases, but it nevertheless illustrates very well that it is about the return of Syrian refugees, where we in Denmark have received criticism from the European Union, from the United Nations, from many bodies. Last week we heard the story of Sami, a man who works at Danfoss and who bought a house in Aabenraa, who works and lives in Denmark, and who is by no means an example of the immigration policy that the government is trying to do.I think in the previous answer to draw a picture of, but he was told that he should be sent back to Syria. The matter has been reversed, but I would appeal to the government to listen to the European Union, to the United Nations and also to the large proportion of the population who, in fact, think that this is a completely misguided immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134116	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134118	It will always be possible to find individual cases in foreign policy and draw from them that immigration policy is not fair, and I will never say that pursuing a strict immigration policy does not also mean that there are people who are caught up, because that will be the consequence. I am just much more concerned about the consequences of this if you do the opposite, and I wish that, when we discuss foreign policy, we can both deal with it if there are some concrete corners or examples of something that we need to change, and I do have that, among other things. given a commitment today, but that we also have everything else with us. Only last week I was sitting at a women's crisis centre for young girls with an immigrant background, and I think it is so brutal and so violent to listen to their depictions of how it is to be a young woman in Denmark, when you have a different background than Danish, when you cannot participate in parties, when violence and oppression are part of everyday life, when you cannot choose your spouse yourself, when you are subjected to the social control that is in part of the immigrant environment. If those women are to have the opportunity to live a life of real equality of opportunity, then how many people come here must be managed. That does not change the fact that there may be some concrete things we need to look at, but we need to stick to foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134234	Thank you. Then it's Mai Villadsen's last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134241	In the Enhedslisten, we fully share the concern for women, men, people who are subjected to social control, and I am very, very pleased that we have put more money into the budget negotiations for crisis centres, for helping minority ethnic citizens with a lgbt background and much more. However, I am also concerned about the stigmatisation experienced by a great many people and the immigration policy, which means that people get into trouble time and time again, and I do not think it is fair or wise. I also have to say that the way in which people are sometimes spoken in here at Christiansborg does not, I believe, contribute to integration. I think it alienates a lot. One could hear this in the debate last Thursday, when a young guy on the question, if he feels welcome in Denmark, very well said that yes, he made that a start until he got better at the language and could hear what was said at Christiansborg. I think that is very sad, and I really think we need to say thank you to Sami, to Mishti and to all those who actually contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134347	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134349	I don't disagree with that. Well, I think we should be careful with generalizations. I think we should all try to talk about this here, just as we are talking about other policy areas and other people, but without that implying that we put a lid on the debate as it used to be in Denmark. It was such once in Denmark when ordinary people stood up and said that they are now the only one with original Danish roots in their rise, and that they don't think it's nice to live there anymore, or when parents in the school class said that there are now three children with original Danish background, that no Danish is spoken in the free areas, and that they think it's a problem that they were then called racists. It's just as dangerous. When I mention this with the women's crisis centres before, it's no coincidence that we call it the forgotten women's struggle. Because I don't think these women have a very strong voice. I do not hear as violent condemnations in Danish society of the enormous repression that is taking place in many homes today in the immigrant environment as I hear condemnation of the government's immigration policy, and perhaps especially for the sake of the girls and boys who are going to grow up and have the same opportunities as others, it would be good to be as rude and as harsh in the criticism of those parents who cannot find out how to let their children grow up in a proper way as to criticise all sorts of others.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134457	The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen. We're moving on, and now it's sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134507	Thank you. If you have to explain with just one sentence what the purpose of the Folketing and the work we are going to do here is, it must surely be that we have to work together to solve the challenges of Denmark and the Danes. I think the Danes expect that from us. We must work together, we must compromise and we must find solutions. Right now, we have an acute shortage of labour. Companies miss the chance to make a lot of money. It also affects the Treasury. And there are a great many parties waiting in line to distribute and distribute to the so-called welfare that is considered to be lacking. Perhaps it could also be an idea to have the opportunity to earn money by getting the labour you need. That's what we're gonna do. That is our task. We haven't solved the problem yet. The situation has gone into absolute stalemate. The government has presented what they call an agreement that there is no majority to implement. It is a funny kind of agreement, that is to say to present an agreement that cannot be implemented because there is no majority in favour of it. I believe that many of us expect us to find solutions. For 17 days we bourgeois parties have been begging for us to sit back at the negotiating table, because we think this is important for our country. We can put forward several compromise proposals. But the government has for two weeks stood firm on ultimate demands, and right now we have not solved the task here in the Danish Parliament. The top of Danish business and Danish Business tells you that the task has not been solved. If we now agree to work together to find solutions, hasn't the time come for us to come back to the negotiating table so that Denmark can get the labour that is needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134655	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134656	But it is simply not true that the situation has gone into a stalemate. The truth about this is that a number of parties have chosen to take responsibility from the Radical Left, the SF, the Christian Democrats, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. The Conservative People's Party went out the wrong door. You should never have walked out that door. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen should have been and done what Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, for example. In the negotiations on the police or in the mandate to the EU budget or in the agreement on criminal justice, did not let the Left, which is on the move in full flight from being a responsible party, define what the Conservatives should do. Søren Pape Poulsen should have stayed, and I believe with my knowledge of Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen would have liked to stay, because I know Mr. Poulsen. Søren Pape Poulsen well enough to know that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is much better in a room where you create results. We could have made an even wider deal on this. I am very pleased with the parties that took responsibility. But Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen cannot tell anyone that the Conservative People's Party does not want an agreement where there is an increased job offer, more employment, some changes in the area of unemployment benefits, a new room for manoeuvre for forward-looking investment, more foreign labour, and where we remove the set-off on pensions. - Sir, you can. Søren Pape Poulsen didn't tell anyone! There's a deal. There are some parties that take responsibility. I think that Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and others need to consider whether they should not go in and vote for what lies quietly, calmly and in good faith. For companies that are standing out there and lacking labour must surely look at this and think that the good old slogan of conservative voices who are working should not permanently turn into bourgeois voices that are working against it. The situation is far too serious for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134846	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134848	If you can count to 90 you will be able to count to 90 that there are no 90 mandates behind the international labour agreement that you claim has been made, that is to say the agreement you say there is. Now we heard the PM's reply to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt earlier, where the Prime Minister said something like that she would respect and acknowledge the general political rules of the game. There is only a result when there is a majority of political parties. So how, on the one hand, can we present an agreement on international labour, which is not a majority for, but, on the other hand, in response to a question to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt say that it requires a majority in the Folketing? There is no majority in favour of that agreement on international labour. And there we just say so kindly: if you do not want to cooperate with us on everything else, then let us find an agreement on international labour so that companies can get their labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134938	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208134939	But hey, hey, don't work together on everything else. In what areas has the government indicated that there is no desire for broad political cooperation? We have never said that, nor have we pursued politics after that. 86% the political agreements reached under this government have been reached across the middle of politics and often with different political parties. I think it's 86%. We have only one wish, and that is to get as broad a majority as possible behind the policy pursued. But I did not really think that anyone in their wildest imagination had imagined that a party like the Conservatives in a situation where Danish business is standing and saying that there is a need for more labour, and we are making an agreement that provides more labour, Danish labour, foreign labour, so says that for reasons of solidarity in the blue block, or because it has to be cozy when holding presidency meetings, or whatever the reason is, one votes against. Because if you go down to the Chamber and vote against it, you will vote directly against the Danish economy, and you cannot be familiar with that, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208135046	Thank you. Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208135048	There are many interesting points of view in what the Prime Minister has just said. But first of all, it is not an answer to the question I asked. There are no 90 mandates in the agreement on international labour, and I have just heard in reply to Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt that we should not break the parliamentary guidelines; we should of course have a majority. But yesterday it was then that the Conservative People's Party, the Left, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance presented another compromise proposal, because we want to make agreements and because we are simply rounded up by wanting to help the government everything we can. We have then taken the government's own proposals, the government's own policy and have put it together in a reform package which increases the supply of labour by 13 000 people. Our proposal is just better than what has been done by the government with some other parties. We would have liked to have gone further and we would like to compromise, of course we do, but will the government? I can hear the Prime Minister say that if you are responsible, you do not vote against Danish business. I totally agree. So that means that the government will at least vote in favour of the resolution we have tabled here, which gives 13 000 people in labour and which consists only of the government's own policy, and then we can get even more hands on the labour market. That is the statement we have now received. The government does.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208135158	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208135159	I was not present in the negotiating room, and we have a common good practice that says that we do not reproduce from the negotiating room, so of course I do not do that today either. However, it is now my impression from the reports I have received from the negotiating room, including from the public and from the parties that have been present, that it was actually sought to find solutions that could generate and support a broad political majority. It is also my impression that all parties involved in the agreement have given something. No party has got it exactly as it would have liked. I think there are parties that would have wanted some other things, for example. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles and their trailers. One gets in with a purpose: to benefit the Danish economy and benefit the Danish business community and make sure that we get more labour, and then one lands a compromise. As I said before, Danish business is out there now asking us to create solutions. Actually, there's one here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208135302	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208135309	Thank you. The government tends to go aground. That is what has happened with all the promises made by the government in foreign policy, it is getting nowhere. Most recently, there was the large-scale 37-hour working obligation for immigrants, which the Prime Minister was otherwise very great in the rhetoric around, when the matter was to be sold to the electorate in the run-up to the elections. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister could not deliver that either when it came to the end, as was the case with the new asylum system and the promise that more criminal foreigners would go out. It just doesn't happen, because the government obviously can't figure it out, and you can't get your own parliamentary basis on it either. The only thing that the Left and the Radical Left will do is to let more people in and send fewer people out and raise public services. Even a minimal proposal from the government to get 250 immigrants into work • 250 immigrants who were going to order something • could not get the support parties on board, even if the Prime Minister promised to hire a small army of case workers and spend 200 million. kr. On it. No, thank you, they said. Then what I want to ask the Prime Minister is whether perhaps the time has come to find the right solutions. The Prime Minister said quite rightly in 2018 • and I quote: • Basically it must be the case that when you have got a stay in Denmark, you obviously have to support yourself. I fully agree with that. Foreigners in Denmark and immigrants must not, of course, live on public support. They have to support themselves, and if they can't, they have to go out. The Prime Minister has obviously come across land here, and I would like to help get the Prime Minister back on hand and solve this for the Danes. Shall we do this together?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208135506	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208135507	Yes, it is a good idea, but it is marvellous when, as I understand it, four or even five blue parties are saying, I do not know, but at least the four parties outside the agreement say that they do not want to solve it, and we are then criticized for not being able to get the proposal through. What am I supposed to do? I still think it is a good proposal and let me use my speaking time to explain why. There is an excessive proportion of women with a non-Western background in Denmark who are not on the labour market. It's not good for anything. It is not good for themselves; it is not good for their economy; it is not good for their lack of retirement when they grow old; it is not good for equality between men and women; nor is it good for the next generation of children who grow up in homes where mother does not go to work. All these women we need to get into the labour market. They must contribute actively every day, also financially, to Danish society. That is why we have proposed a 37-hour duty. I think it is an obvious good idea, and it is actually quite incomprehensible to me that we have not now been able to obtain a majority in the Folketing for an idea that is so incredibly good. Then we have made it even better by suggesting that we take, as it were, many of these women and ask them to carry out a task in the area of the elderly, where we now lack labour. So we've made it even better. Still, there is not a majority of parties in the Folketing that will help to carry out that task. But it is amazing that when we have a good idea and this is a really, really good idea and we also have a really good government that has proposed it, then we cannot get a majority in this Chamber for it. So is it the government that has a problem? The only thing that loses in this is again the Danish society, which is why Parliament's parties could just say, despite the fact that it is we who have come up with a really good idea, that you just put it aside, and that of course you go down and vote for it, so that the women who are at home today and do not go to work come out and make use of their transfer income from Monday. That's an obvious good idea. That's actually how good it is!
ParlaMint-DK_20220208135703	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208135706	That's just funny. I'm sorry I'm laughing. But the Prime Minister cannot seriously believe that a proposal that gets 250 immigrants • 250 immigrants working for a price of 200 million. kr. is an obvious good idea. You can't be serious about that. And let me quote again: Basically it must be the case that once you have been resident in Denmark, you obviously have to support yourself. What the government has presented and what the Prime Minister is proposing here is a mockery. There will be 20,000 immigrants and descendants on cash aid. The government's proposal gets 250 to work. At a time when both industry and our public sector are screaming for labour, this is almost an arrogant way of doing this. Then, as a government, you have to get to grips with finding real solutions, and the Prime Minister and the government can just invite us to coffee. I'd be happy to come up with the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208135807	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208135808	New citizens are actually making a serious mistake in my view about foreign policy right now, namely making it a technical matter of calculation in the Ministry of Finance. This is value. This is value policy. For me, it's value policy. When you come to Denmark, you have to work. You have to support yourself and your own family. If you can't do it yet, you have to work for your performance. So whatever technical calculations or projections are included in the proposal, that is not at all my main concern. What concerns me most is the fundamental Danish value of right and duty. We should have done this 40 years ago. We should have done so when we began to receive people from outside and said: There are some of you who are welcome. I just want you to know: In Denmark you go to work. And there are no men in Denmark who should be allowed to rule over their wives: that they should not be allowed to work. That is not the case in Denmark. You go to work and you support yourself. But that New Citizens have already come so far in being an ordinary political party that one makes it a technical issue • uh uh uh uh... This is value policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208135916	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208135917	200 million Danish tax dollars to get 250 immigrants into work is not technology. It is disrespect for the Danes and for the Danes' money, and in so far as it is the same miser here as in a number of other areas. The government is late, and the proposals that come are only half solutions if they are solutions at all. This applies to a new asylum system. It hasn't happened. This applies to the promise to extend the range of work. That is only half a solution and, as we heard before, it is without funding. This applies to rising energy prices, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentioned. It is only alms to selected electoral groups rather than real tax reductions. And then this is about getting foreigners to support themselves, and it is so bad a proposal that you can only shake your head and laugh at it. And when the government can't solve this, shouldn't you do something else? Shouldn't you say to the Danes: Try to hear, we print elections, recognizing that this is a real problem. We have promised the Danes to solve it. We can't go now three years later.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140014	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140015	It is such a bad excuse that it really hurts the roots of the teeth, and I just have to say about this proposal that almost all political parties have been more busy finding a bad excuse for not voting for it instead of taking responsibility. And what is left of it? It is so that you can stand and laugh in the Assembly Hall. That's okay; we spend a lot of time on that, probably too much time. But what remains is that tomorrow too, too, there will be too many women with a non-Western background who do not get up and go to work and who do not have a natural working identity, and everyone loses that. Women lose. Equality is losing. The children lose, and Denmark loses. So if we could put aside all that, including all of us, and sit down around a table and look each other in the eye and say: How do we ensure that one of the most important Danish values of right and duty, that having a job has a value in itself, that in the morning you get up • many immigrants do it day, night and evening, by the way, because you work at delayed times • is so important a part of the Danish society that it has to permeate everything we do in foreign policy. Then we could produce results. We're wasting time instead, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140124	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then we move on to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140134	Thank you. After all, the government has tried to solve the shortage of labour with the agreement Denmark may more l ^, but even if all the proposals in that agreement were voted through by the whole parliament immediately, we would still be left with a massive shortage of labour ^ the task is not solved yet. The government itself has introduced this Arnepension, which pulls 10,000 healthy people out of the labour market, and the agreement is only just able to cover that gap and then a little more. And that doesn't solve the problem. By 2030 we will be missing as much as 90,000 hands on the Danish labour market, both in the public sector and in the private sector, and there is the Prime Minister's party colleague Mr. Jacob Bjerregaard, who has been sounding the alarm and saying that there really is a need for massive reforms that increase the number of hands in the private as well as in the public sector. My concern and my fear is that as long as we have the government we have now, we will be faced with the problems of labour shortages; it will remain a political headache either until we have a blue majority, or until we have a red government with recession and unemployment. And when I have that impression, it is because the government and the Prime Minister, as I see it, have some ideological blinds on which people have climbed high in wood and priority ideology over solutions and financial responsibility. The most effective tools to ensure more work provision in Denmark are, after all, the one to lower or eliminate social benefits, as has been done with the graduation allowance, but do not want to do in other areas, and as the other to lower the tax on the last earned crown it could be to move the top tax limit. I have the impression that the government refuses to look at tax cuts on the last crown earned for purely ideological reasons. One is so concerned about avoiding reforms that happen to benefit the rich too that one is unable to solve the shortage of labour. It is irresponsible in my optics to prioritise ideology above concrete solutions to society's challenges. But I would really like to give the Prime Minister the benefit of the doubt, because it may be that I am wrong. So I just want to hear: does the Prime Minister agree that there is a need for many more reforms that increase the supply of work than what has been done with Denmark can more l ^ and what initiatives does the Prime Minister think it should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140343	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140344	Is there a need for further reforms? Yeah, and I'll get back to that. I would like to arrest this rather fresh-fire approach to the right to a dignified retirement and just quietly point out that here we are dealing with solid Danish employees who, I think, have all started on the labour market before the party leader was born, have had hard working hours and some of them have had changing working hours often without long training, and who, in part, today are worn out because they have done everything society has asked them to do for more than 40 years, namely go to work. I think that in a society such as ours we should take care of those who make such a great effort and give them the dignified withdrawal that those who have a great economic capacity can always do, but which is much, much harder if you are unskilled, for example. I am entirely in favour of this, and I am actually proud that we have introduced it. Then there is the second question of whether one reform can stand alone. No, it cannot, because we are going to lack a lot of labour in Denmark, and we are already doing so, and so will we in the future. This is not something that can only be solved by recruiting foreign labour. It also requires changes in our own policy and that track is working further. There is a reason why it's called "Denmark can do more," and that's because a Denmark can do more than that, and a Denmark can do more than that, and it will all also focus on labour and the labour market. And then I would just point out calmly that in this agreement tax concessions have been granted for, I think, 1.2 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140534	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140535	Yeah, that's about fifty a month for people who go to work. And thank you for the sales speech compared to Arnepensionen. I am well aware of the arguments. The fact is that you have pulled people out of the labour market, you have reduced the job offer, and what you have done with Denmark can be more or less just to cover that gap plus a little more, and then in the coming years we are missing 90,000 hands on the Danish labour market, which Jacob Bundsgaard wants reforms of. I'm glad to hear that the government is happy to make more suggestions, but I just find it hard to see what on earth that should be. Because that is the case, and the Prime Minister must correct me, if I am wrong, that one refuses to use the most effective tool in relation to the tax, and that is to lighten the tax on it lately It may be the top tax, and there are also other ways to lighten the tax on the last earned crown. If you refuse to do so, I suppose it is a matter of giving priority to ideology over concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140627	It is a little strange to hear from a man who refuses to go down and vote for concrete solutions. A number of legislative proposals are coming up, and the Liberal Alliance, like other responsible parties, can go down and press the button, and then there will be more labour. This has been chosen as a hostage, one must understand, in such a slightly introverted therapeutic programme for blue party leaders. That's something weird. You can spend your time on that, but you can do it in your spare time. When you're at work, you're gonna have to solve the problems that exist. It is very strange when there are a number of parties who choose to take responsibility and put out something, that they then say: no, oh, you want to feel differently or have something else, and then you cannot vote in favour. Go down and vote in favour and then we can start the next discussion on the next reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140718	Alex Vanopslagh, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140719	I actually understand that the Prime Minister spends so much time on procedural matters, because when you are so, yes, excuse the expression, weak in substance, you have to move on to process tricks and then accuse the opposition of being irresponsible, based on the fact that the government does not have a majority in favour of its policy. In other words, implementing the economic policy of the Liberal Alliance would increase the supply of work by 100,000 people by 2030. After all, we are willing to make reforms that increase labour supply. I would like to go back to the substance, because I do not want to spend my time on procedural matters, and what I want the Prime Minister to do is, of course, the most effective tool in tax matters, namely to lighten the tax on the last earned crown. I wonder: is it the case that it is more important to avoid the rich becoming richer than to solve the challenges of society? Is it more important to prevent the old Corydon ghost from ghosting in the background, and then to refuse to make reforms that look at the size of benefits in Denmark beyond the question of graduation? We cannot do it all with second-generation reforms, so that is what I would like the Prime Minister to address: are classical labour supply reforms something that one is willing to address? There's a big job ahead of us, and I don't want to spend any more time on process joints.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140821	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140822	I am in many ways an incredibly boring person and simply do not believe in ghosts, but what I can see is that we are changing the employment allowance, and that is for the benefit of ordinary people. We'll remove the set-off from the pension. It's for the benefit of ordinary people. Now that we are talking about the economic policy of the Liberal Alliance, what will it really mean besides getting more people into work? It will mean galloping inequality. On all crucial parameters it will weaken the Danish welfare society. After all, it will mean that Denmark will no longer be Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140856	Thank you. The question is over. The next is Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208140903	Thank you for the floor, President. I am almost tempted to say that the Prime Minister is on four today. Laughter Two things for which the government is often criticised are climate bells, and then it is power perfection. This has also been the subject of today's debate, and the word 'powerfulness' has been mentioned several times. Over the last week, we have seen a minister who had to resign because climate calculations were withheld during the infrastructure agreement negotiations. But in the same week it also emerges that former tax minister Morten Bødskov was called in consultation because the former tax minister has also withheld climate calculations for hybrid cars. Problem is, in that case, with mr. Morten Bødskov, in other words in relation to the hybrid cars, we cannot get to the bottom of the matter. And why can't we? We cannot do this because the Prime Minister has now set up a ministerial raid which means that the former tax minister has now become Minister of Defence. Then there is nothing to say about the government having an image that says that there is climate bells that say that there is a perfection of power. Frankly, for the Free Greens, it does not seem that the government either takes its historic green mandate on itself or takes democracy seriously enough. That is why I have to ask the Prime Minister: Does the Prime Minister think that it is appropriate for Parliament's ability to exercise control, to supervise the government, to move a minister in the middle of a crisis so that he cannot be heard by the Folketing, for example. in consultation, and that's why the Prime Minister moved Mr. Morten Bødskov from the Treasury Department?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208141115	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208141116	You have to hear a lot before your ears fall off, but when we have discussed perfection here today, it is because it has been said by various parties, and today I am being held by the Danish People's Party whether I cannot like skip the Folketing and stop the negotiations. Then, however, it would be justified with the words that have been used in other contexts where it has not been justified. It is also a little peculiar, because when the Danish Parliament decides not to trust a minister, that is, if there is no confidence in a minister and the Minister resigns, the Prime Minister is forced and can do nothing but make a ministerial raid. It is probably very good that the Prime Minister actually listens to the Folketing, also in that matter, and the Prime Minister in all cases does so too. The Folketing will then have to use the parliamentary tools that the Folketing wants to use in various cases. I think we have made a very good agreement on cars and green road transport, and I understand that consultation has been called for in this case, and there is a need to clarify if there are questions to which no answer has been given or to which a different answer is sought or what is the case in this case. In conclusion, I would just like to arrest the premise that we are not living up to the green mandate. It is, of course, extremely easy to say, perhaps especially for a party that does not always take responsibility for finding solutions. Fortunately, however, other parties do, and Denmark is now one of the countries in the world that not only has the highest green ambitions, but actually also manages to anchor them in the real world and live up to the words and understanding of the Paris Agreement and to the 70-percent objective. We are so well on the way that sometimes it would perhaps be very good if everyone in here also dared to say so, so that those who stand out there can see that democracy works.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208141311	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208141313	As far as I am concerned, it is just not very reassuring that a minister is smoking because climate calculations are being withheld and that, in the same week, there will be a new case of climate calculations being withheld in relation to hybrid vehicles. Then you move the minister, and then you can't get to the bottom of the matter. Then I have to say: yes, we must respect what the Folketing says and does, but we are not just talking about Mr. Morten Bødskov, we are also talking about Mrs Trine Bramsen. Well, my point about saying this is just that it seems a little weird. The Prime Minister must acknowledge that. But the question to the Prime Minister is then: Does the Prime Minister think it is important for the public to gain insight into the case of CO2 These are specific questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208141410	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208141411	So, the Folketing has the tools that the Folketing wants to have to uncover all political processes, and it is up to the Folketing to organise how to uncover and investigate and work politically at all. The very violent words used, I do not think there is any basis for using, and I do not recognise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208141433	Sir. Sikandar Siddique for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208141434	The Prime Minister did not answer the question as to whether the Prime Minister thought it should come forward and we should look into this in depth. I've got one minute. I would like to ask about CO2 One can say that they reflect the wettest dream of Danish Industry. These are not ambitious recommendations at all. We are talking about Denmark wanting to be a pioneer country, but it is being proposed that there should be a tax of about DKK 750. In the Free Greens, we would like to have a flat uniform CO2 so I would like to ask the Prime Minister the question: does the Prime Minister agree that it is essential that the greatest possible climate effect is always given priority over economic growth in climate policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208141529	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208141530	Well, basically, I do not recognise that there must be a conflict between economic growth and our desire to achieve our climate ambitions. And my very best bet is that if you relax much on economic growth worldwide, it will have one meaning before anything else, and that is that there will be millions of people dying of hunger and there will be even more girls who will not go to school, and there will be even more young people in developing countries who will not get a job, and there will be even more ordinary families on the African continent who will be forced every day to make decisions that are not good for the climate because they will never be part of a middle class. When I am in favour of economic growth, I am because I want every person to be able to live properly, go to school properly, train properly and have freedom. If you are opposed to economic growth then you are also opposed to the development that has lifted millions of people out of poverty and misery on the global world stage. So I am not against economic growth. I am not in favour of economic growth that goes beyond our climate, and therefore I am proud to lead a government which, together with a majority in this Parliament, is in the process of finding the climate solutions that enable us to grow, but do so in a sound way, both in terms of climate and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208141644	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. Then we move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208141652	Thank you, President. And now for something quite different: in the last question hour back in December I asked the Prime Minister about her position on the legalisation of cannabis, on the basis that the German government is now going to legalize cannabis. This led to a dialogue where we shared experiences and thoughts in relation to the sale and consumption of cannabis in Denmark. We talked about problems and challenges, but also about solutions. I have had a very positive response to social media in relation to our conversation about cannabis that day. I think it was because we listened to each other and shared views instead of just digging into that quite usual for and against cannabis rhetoric. That didn't mean here the Prime Minister was quite clear. But the Prime Minister also said, and I quote: decriminalisation seems to me to be another discussion; we must take it another day. That's what I've been asked most about on social media. After all, decriminalisation is a model, for example. has chosen in the Netherlands and Portugal, which decriminalises the last indent, that is to say the user, and does so legally, for example. in the Netherlands through coffeeshops to sell limited quantities of cannabis completely legally. Now I have not dared to guess what the Prime Minister meant by that quote, but since many have asked about it, I will give the Minister the opportunity to answer for himself. The quote, as I said, was quite precise: 'Decriminalisation seems to me to be another discussion which I have to answer on another day'. That day has come, and I want to hear what the Prime Minister is thinking about the decriminalization of cannabis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208141833	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208141834	Firstly, I would agree with the questioner that we had a good discussion. We need to clarify just what is meant when the questioner says that we shared experiences so that it cannot be translated into experience with the use of cannabis or any other drugs, because with that I have no experience myself, nor do I have any plans to make myself aware of such activities. And that is quite right, and I recognise it openly, an incredibly strained relationship with all drugs and all drug consumption, including cannabis and there are many different reasons for that. If we look at cannabis, I really have two big concerns. One is that quite a lot of our young people also become addicted to it. It does not bring any good; on the contrary, having an addiction destroys a good youth's life. The second concern is that when you go down and buy today and it doesn't matter whether you buy cocaine or hashish or anything else, you support the most criminal in Denmark, namely gangs and the biker environment, and is thus part of the food chain of organised crime, also financially. I would like to see much more of this in the debate, because it is actually a little incomprehensible to me that there are no more Danes who think that they should not, because it is the gangs or rockers who win on this. That being said, I have myself, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. chasing our toughest drug addicts on Vesterbro. I myself have been a very strong supporter of the fixerum I think it is called health room, but it was now a fixerum that we started the discussion on at the time, and I stand by that to protect the most vulnerable. My attitude towards cannabis has not changed since we were standing here, and I still have a lot of concerns, I just have to be honest with you. I know a lot of people have the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142040	Sir. Torsten Gejl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142041	Yes, there is. The polls say that and now it is three times in a row, I think that a majority of Danes are actually in favour of legalising cannabis where the state takes control. And there I am a little curious about what the Prime Minister thinks about the difference between the models of legalization and decriminalisation, because if you decriminalise the last link, you do not actually take it out of the hands of the rockers; but if you do a legalisation, you take it out of the hands of the rockers and take control of it. That's what they do in Germany. So if the Prime Minister looks over Europe, which model does the Prime Minister think is wiser if you should choose one? Is it the one where you legalize it, take it out of the hands of the rockers, take responsibility for it completely, or is it a decriminalisation where you decriminalise the last few joints, so you get a legal sale, but where you haven't taken out of the hands of the big criminal environments?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142138	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142139	I don't want either of them. It's the questioner who wants some of that. It is not part of my thinking; I would much rather strike down on organized crime wherever it shows its incredibly ugly and subversive face, and that is what it does. This is another matter and I do not understand why people are saying that they want a festive Friday night, but that they do not take responsibility for what they are supporting. I think that is too easy, because organized crime is being supported. Then I know that some people are saying that if we were to legalize cannabis, the gangs wouldn't have the income base they have today. They're just gonna find another one, because they're gonna deal with everything. There will be trade in self-sweets; there will be trade in cigarettes illegally; there will be trade in drugs; there will be trade in people, with weapons and with the safety and insecurity of all of us. So I will not answer what I would choose from the two models, because as a starting point I do not want any of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142248	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142248-2	No, but when so many of the Danes care so much about it, I thought it might be interesting to hear the Prime Minister's opinion on it. I myself made proposals here in Parliament on home cultivation, cannabis, and that, of course, gave a very lively debate I had to do quite a thorough piece of preparatory work. What I noticed in the studies I read from countries that have legalised cannabis was that it generally does not lead to greater consumption around the world. In some places it gets a little up, in some places it goes a little down, but neither legalization nor decriminalisation actually leads to greater consumption around the world. This is actually the case in the Netherlands, where it is decriminalised that there are fewer young people who consume cannabis than there are in Denmark where it is prohibited. So I want to hear the Prime Minister's opinion as to whether you could imagine that you might even be able to counteract problems, for example. Cannabis dependence, if you put taxes on sales and spent the large amount of money you could get in to prevent and deal with the problems that we in the alternative really agree with there are some who get in connection with the abuse of cannabis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142350	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142352	This is probably one of the differences between the questions and answers: I just want a greenhouse. That is what I want, but it should not be to grow cannabis; it should be for grapes, cucumbers, tomatoes and such. That's how we can have different desires and dreams. It's not like I'm not responsive. I feel both shamed and worried about the drug abuse scene we have in Denmark, and I can also observe that drugs that when I was young and were part of the nightlife were reserved for some very, very few parts of Denmark, now flowing at regular parties and in a much, much larger part of Denmark. That worries me a lot. So does the consumption of hashish, and not least because if you get a hash psychosis when you are young, there is a huge risk that you will ruin your life or at least a large part of your youth. But it is not the case that I am saying that we cannot discuss this area too. How do we find a way to prevent, and do we have the right legislation? I just can't give that immediate backup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142500	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142510	Thank you. In her question Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen referred to the West Wing and education is everything. It made me think that there are three very big heroines in my life or maybe not in my life, but then still, and they're all called funny enough Katharine. One is my wife, and we'll leave her alone; that's not the point. The other one is Katharine Gun. She was the one who revealed the lie about the Iraq war in Britain and so risked herself and was close to getting a very long prison sentence. The last one is Katharine Meyer Graham, who was the publisher and publisher of the Washington Post, and those who have seen the Official Secrets and those who have seen the Post, know very well what I am referring to, namely that truth is everything. That's what these two women stood for. What I want to say about that is that we are currently in a situation of some kind, and I do not want to ask the Prime Minister to take any specific action at all on the matter, either in the case of Mr Beyer de Ryke or in the case of Mr Beyer de Ryke. Claus Hjort Frederiksen or the case with the spy boss, but to the fact that we have some services, here the NSK, that call in journalists as witnesses and call in chief editors for meetings about what you can write and what you can't write. Now it is the case that we have a Code of Procedure, paragraph 172. 1, which very clearly states that journalists are not and cannot be required to disclose their sources at all. Then there are the exceptions called the security of the nation and the nature of the matter. But how should an editor ever know when to compromise? I would like the Prime Minister to deal with that in principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142715	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142716	First of all, I can tell that I have a series delay when there are so many references to series in this Chamber today. Jens Rohde, these are the movies I've mentioned. These are not series). There are both series and now also films which I must try to catch up with. And then I would like to say quite in principle that, of course, I am not interfering either with the police or the prosecution's organisation of the investigation which may be carried out in a specific case, and that is why I am not going to enter into a discussion about it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142753	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142755	But will the Prime Minister admit that, after all, we have a law on the administration of justice which provides journalists with the protection that they should not disclose their sources, even in legal proceedings?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142808	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142809	I think it is very good to say at the outset that I will not be forced or asked to respond to specific cases. But a fundamental discussion which has been raised on the basis of specific cases has a connection with the specific cases; there are, of course, some specific cases. And I am not interfering either in the organisation of and work on specific cases by the prosecution or the police, which is why I am not going to deal with anything in principle that is nevertheless linked to a specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142847	Sir. Jens Rohde for his last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142849	But the Prime Minister is also the minister of the press. It is, of course, a very special title and task and a very special responsibility to be the minister of the press, and so I cannot help asking if it does not concern the Prime Minister when editors in chief are called for talks about what can be written and what cannot be written in relation to the Danish press. That's why I mention the two films. Because there we have some who have the courage to do what they think is right, and that's why they're heroines in my world picture. It was because they simply thought it was right that they did so, despite the fact that some others, namely the authorities, thought it was wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142940	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142941	I usually really appreciate my dialogues with Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde on many things, but in relation to the specific cases I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208142953	The question is over. And this is the end of Question Time. I have just called for the vote, so in seven minutes there will be a vote. We'll take a short break.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208143701	The sitting is resumed. Today there is the following review: Troels Lund Poulsen (V), Rasmus Jarlov (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 83 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on attracting qualified international labour to Denmark on fair working conditions). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). I have received notification of this from the Prime Minister per year. On 4 February 2022, the government raid was carried out. The message will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk. According to my recommendation, it has been decided by Royal Resolution of 4 February 2022 that the responsibility for equal opportunities and related matters be transferred from the Ministry of Employment to the Ministry of Transport that in future, the Minister for Employment and Equal Opportunities Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen should be described as Minister for Employment, that I may ask the President to inform the Danish Parliament accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen
ParlaMint-DK_20220208143740	The item listed as No. 6 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208143755	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 36 of Kasper Roug (S), Rasmus Nordqvist (SF), Zenia Stampe (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL) and Torsten Gejl (ALT), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 58 (S, SF, RV, EL, LA and FG), against voting 43 (V, DF, KF and NB), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No: V-36 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 35 by Jacob Jensen (V), Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) and Mette Thiesen (NB) and proposals for adoption no. V 37 of Mona Juul (KF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208143925	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208143930	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 45 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 57 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG and KD), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208144009	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208144036	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208144042	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208144134	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208144141	Thank you. But we have received an answer yesterday to the committee, which concerns the extent to which it is a breach of conciliation if we do not vote 'yes' at the third reading. Now we have only reached the second reading. Then it would be very good to be very keen on whether when we come to the third reading • how to interpret how to vote. We must pay particular attention to this when there is a report on the legislative proposal. The Enhedslisten and the SF have a joint report which states that at the third reading they will give their opinion on the draft law. That depends, among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). And the Radicals then have their own report, for which I shall not be the spokesman at all. We would, of course, like to be quite clear before we vote on the third reading and to be fully in agreement on what this has to do with the consequences. And this case is a little speckled, because it's an old settlement from 2014, where two laws have been ordered. We are happy to do so. There must then be a balance between the legal and economic balance of the strength ratio between the tenant and the landlord. We therefore believe in the Enhedslisten that there is not the balance in the aggregation there is. So we do not believe that the 2014 legislative proposal is in line with the 2014 conciliation and we will not vote for it. That's our starting point. However, if the SF's amendments are adopted, we are in a situation where we can be so satisfied with the legislative proposal that we will vote in favour at third reading. Do you have that kind of consequences if you walk out of the settlement? Yeah, it's kind of unresolved. For when this bill, if adopted, comes into force, the day after it has entered into force, can be met in the conciliation circle currently in force and new changes can be agreed in this area. And if we cannot agree on the changes, then we can see that the conciliation has ended, and then a majority can make changes as they wish. That is why we are at a point in the legislative process where we want clarity on how this should be interpreted if it is the case that the amendments are not adopted and that some parties are going to vote against the legislative proposal. It is very nice that before you press the button you know the consequences. It is possible that it is someone with more stars on his shoulders than I have who must talk and make that clarification and find out whether both the government and the Enhedslisten agree on the interpretation that the Minister has in his reply. So it's kind of a serious matter. That is why we want L 47 back in committee. Three legislative proposals are being co-examined. We do not need all three laws to come back, so it must be up to the President to figure out how to deal with this, but we will not, in fact, block the second reading of L 48 and L 49 today and the third reading on Thursday.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208144504	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur and I have noted the wish that the draft law L 47 be referred back to committee. Then I can see that Mrs Susan Kronborg, as rapporteur for the Radical Left, also wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208144520	Thank you, President. Now that we are bothering you all with this compilation, I would just like to briefly explain why we have tabled an amendment outside the report. I'll be brief. It is simply because we, like Enhedslisten and SF, have also had a concern. But we have then attacked that concern in a slightly different way, namely by tabling our own amendment, which then ended up staying outside the report. The fact is that we were simply concerned that in the draft law under the section "Advanced law' on Section 29c of the Housing Regulation Act, which is now Paragraph 32 of the Lease Act, an understanding of § 29c has been established in the description of the applicable law, which in our view is not clarified in the case law. This means interfering with the jurisdiction of the courts. Our intention is then to repair the problem by moving what is stated in the description of the applicable law and which then may not be applicable in Section 32 of the Lease Act so that, if nothing else, instead of adding a certain understanding into the description of applicable law, it will be written directly into the legal text. It was such a very brief description of our position on that issue. I very much hope that consideration will be given to whether we can vote in favour of our amendments, which are, of course, attacking the issue of radical renovation of small houses. There are three options, you might say. There is the possibility of making a comparison with cost-related leases where there is a fictitious calculation component. That is the SF's proposal. Then there is the wording of section 29c of the Housing Regulation Act, which compares with the cost-related. There is our proposal, then, where we take what is in the description of the applicable law and say that you have to make a comparison with the value of the rental. So, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will consider our amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208144756	I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Radicals with a comment about just remembering not to use direct indictments from the Parliamentary Chair. I should like to ask if there are any more who wish to comment on the three legislative proposals. As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208144812	The amendments to L 47 shall first be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-23, member of the Committee? They are adopted. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 24 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL and FG), and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 19 (SF, EL and FG), against 83 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB, LA and KD), abstentions 0. Amendment No. Twenty-four are rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 66 outside the report by Mrs Susan Kronborg (RV), and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 9 (RV and 1 (EL) (by mistake)), against 92 (S, V, DF, SF, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and KD), abstentions 0. Amendment No. Sixty-six are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 25-38, as agreed by the committee, on Amendment No. 39, adopted by a majority (S, V, DF, KF and LA) or on Amendment No. 40, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 41 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (RV, EL and FG). A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of 27 votes (SF, RV, EL and FG), 75 abstentions (S, V, DF, KF, NB, LA and KD). Amendment No. 41 rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 42-55, as agreed by the committee, on Amendment No. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on Amendment No 65, on behalf of the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, on Amendment No 65. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 57, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB and FG) or on Amendment No 57. 58-64, member of the Committee? They are adopted. Then we shall vote on the amendments to L 48. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-12, elected by the committee? They are adopted. Finally, amendments to L 49 will be put to the vote. If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 to 5, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. And then it was proposed that Bill No. L 47 to be referred back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then I suggest that Bill No. L 48 and Bill No. L 49 goes directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145111	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and the draft law goes directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. There are no more votes. In a moment, we'll start today's first readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145244	The debate is open. The Socialist rapporteur is ready to speak. Welcome to sir. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145303	Thank you for that, President. It is the case that air pollution is too high in Denmark, and it is because there are too many Danes who both die prematurely and become ill as a result of air pollution in our cities. Of course, that's not gonna work. Of course, there must be the opportunity to breathe freely without worrying about polluting particles that make us sick. Local authorities must be given the opportunity to combat air pollution, and they will have to do so, among other things. with this tool in the bill we are discussing today. We give our five largest municipalities the opportunity to ban diesel-powered passenger cars without particulate filters in environmental zones, and this must ensure that environmental zones support the objective of improving air quality in our large cities. With this bill, we are implementing parts of the agreement on environmental initiatives in green cities and a capital of development that we concluded together with SF, Radical Left and Enhedslisten in September of this year. In addition to allowing municipalities to ban diesel-powered passenger cars without particulate filter in the environmental zones, we propose to bring forward the date of entry into force of the existing requirements for particulate filter for diesel-powered vans for 2 years to 1 July 2023. As it is now, the requirements will not enter into force until July 1, 2025. We must take air pollution in our cities very seriously. One of the main sources of air pollution is emissions from traffic, and with this bill it will be possible for municipalities to seize another tool in the toolbox. We must also be able to breathe fresh air into our big cities, and the Social Democrats, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145447	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few requests for short remarks, and the first is from Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145452	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the rapporteur for his speech. The only question I just want to ask is practical implementation. After all, we have seen in the consultations that concerns are expressed from the industry in terms of being able to obtain particulate filters in practical terms because there has been a coronapandemic and there have been some problems of supply, which we have seen in many contexts, and that is why it has been asked whether this advance can actually be implemented. What is the social democracy's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145523	It is clear that we look very seriously at the delivery problems that may exist, but also with regard to the consultation answer to which the rapporteur refers, the answer is that the assessment is still that those who have to face the challenge will be able to meet it. I should also like to point out, however, that this is a matter which is a little serious in the case of diesel-powered passenger cars. We can, of course, read in the hearing answer that has been given that 63 per cent. of the pollution of particles in the cities and thus also 49 per cent. of NO x And as long as the assessment is that it can still be reached within the period, then of course we hold onto it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145617	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145619	I will return to that in a moment when I get the chance. It is not really the intention that I am asking about this, it is more the concern that is being raised about whether it is actually possible to do so and how we, as elected representatives, react to it, so that if so we adopt something that the industry says they simply cannot implement, regardless of whether they would like to do so. That's more the problem I'm thinking can be a challenge. But we can, of course, come back to this during the committee procedure, even in relation to what sort of assessments are used to say that it is possible to do so when the industry says in its hearing answer that it cannot be done as they see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145651	We are of course also talking about this in committee, but we must also be aware that the industry, among other things. FDM, the date of January 1, 2023, when it is actually July 1, 2023, so there are seven more months. So the starting point for their response to the hearing is not entirely correct, and that is why we have to take the answer from the Ministry that it can still be observed at face value.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145718	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145722	Thank you. I think it's a fine bill, but it's just for the sake of clarification that I'm going to ask: why are only the big cities allowed to do this? As I read the proposal, it is Aarhus, Copenhagen, Aalborg and Odense. I mean, why not just allow cities to cope with the challenges that exist, for example. Viborg, if you now had a situation where you went above the limit values?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145755	Thank you for the question. After all, it has been a wish from the large municipalities that they could be allowed to enshrine their environmental zones with particulate filters in relation to diesel-powered passenger cars, and that is a wish that has been followed. Even now there are also discussions about whether it is perhaps something that can be extended to other municipalities that should be interested in it. But this is on the basis of the wishes of the municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145823	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145824	That is also fine, but one could say as a principle that one should be allowed to decide locally, no matter how many inhabitants, how much population density, etc. You have. In other words, if you are challenged on the limit values, you should in principle be allowed, wherever you are in the country, to introduce these environmental zones.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145846	In principle, however, I do not object to the fact that the municipalities have some concerns about environmental zones and so on. I haven't heard of it. I have not heard that Viborg, which is the example, should be interested in it, but I think it might be an exciting debate if, among other things, it is. Viborg or some of the other smaller municipalities, which do not have such a crowd of passenger cars, would also engage in the fight to have environmental zones and a climate debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145911	The next brief remark is to Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208145912	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In the Danish People's Party, we also think that this is an excellent bill. There is, however, one thing in it. We think it's fine with these environmental zones. However, an earlier agreement on particulate filters is being brought forward on vans, and does the rapporteur not think that it is problematic to conduct business policy in this way? First you create a framework, and then the business community can say that some new legislation is coming along, and you can adjust and make your depreciation, and then there has been a debate about whether these cities should have it; I know how that sort of thing is going to come about; in a negotiation there are some who want a little more money suddenly changing the framework conditions that business has had, i.e. that you now have to phase out your vehicle 2 years before. Does the rapporteur not find it challenging that such a drift in his political approach to how to make legislation, in this case environmental legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150001	Now I don't recognize the image of us wandering. Nor can I recognise the process that the rapporteur has brought here. There is no doubt that pollution in large cities is a serious problem. This is something that the Social Democrats take very seriously. It is clear that in this agreement we are, of course, going to where we are supporting action against pollution in the big cities. Of course, we do so as quickly as possible and as we assess it. We still think that way, and that's why we still think that this isn't creating some kind of business situation, I think you called it. I don't really think so. This is basically taking pollution in the big cities seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150049	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150051	We are in complete agreement on this, and we have done so. First, it was said to the business community that the vehicles they have must be phased out by 2025. Now you make a new agreement, saying that these vehicles will now have to be phased out in 2023, i.e. two years before, almost in a few minutes. Can the rapporteur not see that it is very difficult to make investment in the business world when we have framework conditions which can then be changed at very, very short notice and with a faster phase-in period than has otherwise been used to? And then we fully agree with the intention that we should have less particulate pollution. I don't think anyone disagrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150122	Now you have to remember that these are older vehicles, in other words, compared to these particle-powered cars. These are vehicles that are typically from before 2011. On top of that, there is already an aid scheme for potential car owners who find it difficult to pay for extra equipment, such as: will be particle filters in these passenger cars. So I actually think it's been taken care of. In fact, I think that the issue raised by the rapporteur has been taken seriously. That is why I do not really think it is quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150159	The next brief remark is to Mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150202	I'd like to lie down a little bit in the slipstream of Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde, because in answer to his question, the rapporteur says that in principle they have nothing against it and that whether to let more municipalities do this is an interesting debate. After all, this is an old debate and we have been pressing for more than these five large municipalities to have these opportunities to protect their citizens from air pollution. Why is it that the Social Democratic Party has not proposed that more cities should have these opportunities?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150239	There is no doubt that this is a problem where there are very many people and very many cars. And it's in our five largest municipalities. There's nothing secret about that. That is what we started from when we negotiated this. I think that is actually fair enough, since it is also a wish in the municipalities concerned. I think it's a bit like derailing the content of this bill when you start talking about Viborg or start talking about smaller municipalities, where there isn't the number of diesel cars or passenger cars that have problems with their particulate filter. So I really think we should stick to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150316	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150318	Well, that's because the debate has also been about this bill. So I kind of think that's fair enough. But let me ask you something else. In fact, I think we could go the way, as in many other areas, that we have rather clearer objectives in the field of the environment. I would therefore like to know whether the Social Democrats will be involved in making an effort to set more concrete targets for reducing the number of deaths and the number of respiratory diseases caused by air pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150352	Well, we should already expect and that we will have reduced both the number of deaths and the number of people who are ill due to particle contamination. I think that we are already dealing with such a bill as this, and I think we should welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150409	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150422	Thank you for the floor, President. And thanks to the government for focusing this proposal on better environmental protection, greener cities and, above all, less air pollution. It is proposed to allow the municipal councils of Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Aarhus, Odense and Aalborg to decide that diesel-powered passenger cars should be included in their existing environmental zones, so there will be a ban on driving in diesel-powered passenger cars without particulate filter. In addition, it is also proposed to bring forward the time for all diesel-powered vans to have a particulate filter fitted for 2 years to 1 July 2023, when the applicable rules require that it be before 1 July 2025. We in the Left fully recognise the issue that is being raised. It is a major problem, especially in the larger urban communities, that we have particulate pollution, including from cars that run without particulate filters. We have also seen this, and so we are very pleased that very positive statements have been made precisely from the municipal councils of the five large cities, including the members of the Left, so we are positive that the proposal is setting up a voluntary scheme in which the municipalities themselves are given the opportunity to decide whether diesel-powered passenger cars should be included in the existing environmental zone. That is why, as a starting point, we can support the intention and therefore also the part of the proposal which includes it here. However, as the modest dialogue I had with the Social Democrat rapporteur a moment ago, we must at least have asked a few questions in committee about how practical implementation can be achieved. One thing is that we can make some legislation here in the Things, but if there are problems in the real world in obtaining the particle filters that are required, then it gives a completely different issue... then it's quite different sizes we're dealing with... but it shouldn't stop us from looking in that direction. But, as I have said, we have taken note of the answers from, among others. AutoBranchen Denmark and Dansk Bilbrancheråd, who says that there may be problems with this. I understand that the Ministry considers that this is different and that it is possible to do so, so we must of course find out who is right in the goose-eyes or how the assessments underlying this have come to light. At least one thing is certain: something needs to be done about the particle pollution that is general and, in this case, specifically in relation to the larger urban communities. It can happen in many ways, and it can happen with this. It can be said that, as has already been said, it is the oldest cars that we are talking about, which have not been fitted on particulate filters, and that means that everything else will be replaced by the car park, and hence by the oldest cars, so it can be said that this might bring about a bit of an effect, but the effect we will see will still come within a few years, because the oldest cars will be replaced, after all, and thus replaced to some greener cars with particulate filters or perhaps even electric cars etc. Having said that, we are in favour of intention, and we are also in favour of that part of the proposal which allows it here in the five municipal councils, but, as I have said, we have some questions about how it can actually be done if there is a problem in terms of obtaining the particulate filters that are being demanded here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150801	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150808	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I have some doubts, because the Left is in favour of the draft law, but has a few questions. Do you support the bill, or what do you do? Is there any support for this bill here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150833	Now it is the case that we have three readings of legislative proposals in the Folketing. We have that for a reason. At first reading, we, like the draft law, will review and make our immediate statement, and that is what I have done. At second reading, there may then be some amendments, and at third reading you will then come up with your final position. I think that, in this context too, as we do with so many other legislative proposals, we have the opportunity to ask the Minister and the Ministry precisely what is the basis for the assessment that has been made, and then see if there are perhaps some things in the internship that can be adjusted so that we can actually have the effect that the draft law demands. It's just what I'm putting up with. However, we are very positive about looking at this precisely because there is a problem that needs to be addressed, and that is what the draft law is proposing, as we see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150918	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150919	Thank you to the rapporteur for reminding me just how the legislative work works. I'm really glad. I am also very pleased at the fact that the rapporteur is suggesting that we look favourably at the draft law, so we must of course see if we can find each other, in relation to the fact that we are of course pragmatic and the Left is also pragmatic about the legislative process. So of course I just thank you for the answer and, what should you call it, almost also the teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208150953	No, but it was not an expression of any teaching, it was just to say that when we have a legislative proposal, there can always be • and that is so in this case, as we see it • some practical things, which I think it is important also in relation to the industry that we clarify. I think we owe each other that, and we owe it to the industry. The most important thing is, of course, the aim of the draft law. And if that goal cannot be achieved for some reasons that lie outside this house, then I think it is important that we also deal with it. And that's really just what I'm putting up with. But I hope we find each other in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151022	There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151026	Thank you for the positive speech by the rapporteur. I also just have a clarification question. After all, the legislative proposal has two main points: one is the advance of the entry into force of this directive with diesel vehicles, and there I understand there is some practical work to be done before the Left can make its position known. But what about the second main point, which is also to include diesel-powered passenger cars in these environmental zones? What is the Left's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151102	We are positive about this, in other words diesel-powered passenger cars without particulate filter. We are very positive about this because it is precisely there that you can see that there is a high level of particulate pollution. But again, I think that here too, whether we are making this legislation or not, we will see a replacement in the car park, so that the oldest cars that do not today have these particulate filters will also disappear. But if this can help advance that process, we are very positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151128	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151129	Yes, and then I have some doubts, whether that means that the Left will not vote for this anyway, because the Left believes that developments will do the work for us so that we do not have to push on. What's the answer to that? Are we in favour of regulation here, or are we going to cross our fingers to ensure that development comes about on its own?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151158	No, I'm not saying that. We are in favour of that part of what I said before. I'm just saying that I think that the effect of being for this is going to be done, and it's going to be done. At least you just have to resist that if we didn't do it, it might happen anyway a little bit later. It's no harm, and I think it's fine and positive that we can do this. As I said, we just have some questions for the other part of it. But the fact that we have to take action against particulate pollution on those fronts, we can also take practical action I think is fine. That's why we're positive about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151229	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. René Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151238	Thank you for that, President. We're here with a bill, and there's like two legs to walk on. The first leg is the part about the municipalities of Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Aarhus, Odense and Aalborg being given the opportunity to decide that in their existing environmental zones they will have a ban on diesel-powered passenger cars without particulate filter. We think that is really good. But I would not call for that to be done. I would like to suggest that you can take it out in the relevant municipal council, and then you have to choose how to deal with the option that you have. It is, of course, the case that the Folketing is now imposing on the municipalities that this should be the case. It is an opportunity for local authorities and we are quite confident that decisions are taken which are not only best for citizens but also best for the environment. I just have to say that we know that particulate pollution is actually relatively dangerous, and we must get rid of it if we can succeed in doing so. So it's pretty much okay. Then there's another part in it, and that's that you want to advance this phasing out of vans without a particulate filter. This is something else, it is commercial vehicles, and what you just have to remember here is that those who drive old commercial vehicles are not big companies. Large companies have usually leased their cars and have them for a short period of time, which is why they don't come under this. Those who are hit by speeding up the phase-out we believe in fact that it should be phased out in 2025, that is not at all what we want to discuss; it should be phased out. After all, it is the small traders, it is the traders who on Saturday come to the green market in some of the towns concerned and sell their vegetables and other things, and they are the ones who have an older van. They are now changing the depreciation model they have had up to now or the investment it is in relation to buying a new car. In principle, we do not really object to the fact that it will be in 2023. We just think that we should be careful about this thing, we've tried it ourselves, but that's why you can still say that you first make an agreement and then then again tighten it further. In any case, it sends out wrong signals in relation to business. This is a form of expropriation for some of them, for they may have an older van, where it certainly does not pay to have a particulate filter attached, and they will then have to make an investment significantly earlier. So I hope that the proposal could perhaps be split up. We would very much like to vote in favour of the possibility for local authorities to take this decision, but we would also like to vote against the final part and say that when there is a phase-out agreement in 2025, we must stick to it and, of course, we will take up the committee's work, whether it is possible to share the bill. Otherwise, we will have to take up our position if that is not possible. Once again, however, it is a question of putting it to the local authorities to make decisions about the environment in relation to their citizens: yes, of course, you have to have that competence locally, and we would like to vote in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151539	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is no wish for short remarks. In this way, I welcome the next rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151549	Thank you. If there is something we politicians love, that is power, and there is good reason for it, because power is also the opportunity to change our society in the direction in which we believe. But when we are elected, our job is not just to take that very popular power to us, but to distribute power in a way that is fair. That's exactly what this proposal is about. It is about taking a little bit of power from ourselves and giving it to some municipal politicians where it has a rightful place. They must have the power to decide to protect their citizens from air pollution if they want to. That's what we're doing here. They must have the right to control their own city. They must have the right to say clearly that those polluting diesel cars that give our children asthma and kill our grandparents, we want to ban in our cities. That's why I'm glad we're giving them this power now. We give the power to Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Odense, Aarhus and Aalborg, and of course I am very proud of this as a Copenhagener, but also as a green folk socialist. Having said that, I also think that the government here should have gone a little further. From the point of view of the SF, all municipalities, and not just the five largest, should have the possibility of introducing environmental zones into urban areas of a certain size. The new Euro requirements must be fully applied to both particles and NO x from the perspective of the SF. And for passenger cars, Euro 5 standards must be required or better. So there are some shortcomings in the bill here and also some problems with the installation of open versus closed particle filters. One might have chosen to demand closed particulate filters because the open particulate filters are not as effective in protecting the environment. It could also be strong with some slightly clearer announcements from the government about what the goal of the effort is. I asked about this just now and asked: will the government be involved in an effort to set concrete targets for reducing the number of deaths and respiratory diseases caused by air pollution? I'd think that might be interesting. We in the Socialist People's Party would very much like to see an overall plan being worked on, in which wood stoves and air pollution from agriculture can also be included and discussed in relation to instruments. However, we very much welcome the draft law here, which we ourselves have been involved in fighting through. That is why, of course, we also support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151845	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a wish for a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151850	It was just to the remark made by Mr. Carl Valentin on SF's environmental policy. The aim was to give local authorities more power to deal, as well as locally, with different environmental problems, in this case air pollution. Is it such a general principle for SF's environmental policy that it is something you want to start out, so that people can have power over their own city, as I think Mr. Carl Valentin put it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151918	I can think of cases where it would not be appropriate, because you will then move some different things locally, and then you will find it difficult to make some decisions from in here. So it is not because we want to take all environmental policy into the municipalities. In general terms, however, we are actually trying to make legislation and to fight for legislation that will ensure that decisions are taken locally to protect citizens from, for example. air pollution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151943	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208151944	You can, for example. say that now you give an opportunity to the City of Copenhagen or the Municipality of Frederiksberg etc. But if they do not avail themselves of that opportunity, Mr. Carl Valentin then come and pull it through from Christiansborg's side and say that you're gonna do it this way? We had an example the other day. It was in a completely different context, but the principle is the same. We were discussing these national parks, and there you would so like to pull it through from Christiansborg's side, even if they are against it locally. So it's more to understand just what SF's policy is going on in this context. It is an opportunity that is being given now, but if they do not take advantage of that opportunity, will the SF then say that they should do so, because then you will have to demand that there should be this advance; there must be they have environmental zones that need to be maintained?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208152023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208152024	We will not be coming out in a moment to say that Copenhagen must now do this, which we are now giving them the opportunity to do. No, we don't. But I think it is a slightly different debate than that of nature parks. Now it is not just my area, but there is also a greater purpose in the overall context, which is not just about the local environment, but which is about biodiversity and many of the debates that are here. I also think it makes sense that we can make some decisions from here, for example. about that we want more wild nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208152056	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208152059	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin for the speech. I very, very much agree with everything the SF here conveys from the platform. I am not in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and that is why I would just like to point out that all the limit values, which Mr. Carl Valentin is already in demand in Germany. It is both for the Euro 5 and Euro 6 standards and for NO x It is very important to focus on NO x So I just want to point out that you can draw on some information and be inspired by other countries. I hope that Mr. Carl Valentin in committee will succeed in what was said from the platform here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208152151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208152152	Thank you for that, and thank you for both jokes and good tips. I'll take that with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208152207	There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Zenia Stampe. Welcome to Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208152225	Thank you. We support the bill, of course, for the time we have reached an agreement with the government on the points contained in this bill. There are also several points in our agreement that are important, which are about the air environment, which are therefore not part of this bill. There are, among other things: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But today, the environmental zones we are discussing are the traffic in the big cities. After all, there is always a relevant discussion in relation to the large cities, because should we lay down rules for the large cities based on those who live there or those who commute to cities or those who work in cities? And exactly in this case, we chose, and perhaps it wasn't entirely by chance up to the municipal elections, to make this agreement to show that it's those who live in the cities who have the first right when we talk about the air environment. It is for the sake of those who choose to live there whether you are old with potentially poor lungs and risk of COPD, or whether it is children's families who choose to let their children grow up in the city. It's for the sake of them that we make these rules. It may be a little hasty if you are a trader and have invested in a van that drives on diesel and has not yet got a particulate filter. We recognise that. It's awful. But we have made the priority that it is most important that we protect those who live in cities. It must be possible to create clean air for those who live there. That is why we support this proposal and that is why we are very pleased with many of the other things that lie in our clean air agreement, which will then be translated into other legislative proposals. And yes, it's a little hassle for some, but we're willing to take the fall because we think the purpose is so important that we can stand up for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208152437	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208152442	It is just because I would like to hear what the Radical Left thinks about making it a generally applicable principle, that is, a general principle for local decision-makers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208152509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208152510	And I am very pleased about that, because I should of course have said in my rapporteur's speech that this is also part of the agreement we have reached with the government, which we are delighted about. Of course, we would have preferred to have seen that this option is available to all municipalities. We couldn't get the government to do that. On the other hand, we have decided to set up such an air partnership with representatives from medium-sized municipalities in order to examine the possibility of spreading environmental zones, but indeed, in fact, stricter requirements for wood-burning furnaces, etc., to all municipalities. So there is absolutely no doubt on our part that we are now taking the big cities first, because that is where the problem is greatest, but we are also interested in it being spread to all 98 municipalities, so that decisions are taken by the citizens and their representatives, in other words those who live in the respective municipalities and cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208152602	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Henning Hylllested. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208152612	Thank you. As the Socialist rapporteur has already pointed out, this draft law is based on an agreement we have made between the government, the SF, Radicals and Enhedslisten. It builds on the environmental zones already existing in the five urban municipalities to which they have been appointed and which are authorised to establish environmental zones. This applies to Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Aarhus, Odense and Aalborg. They now include heavy diesel vehicles and vans. The agreement gives the municipalities concerned the right to strengthen the environmental zone requirements to include diesel passenger cars. That's where the innovation is in the bill. It can be said that, at long last, we are fulfilling, but only partially, a promise that we made to the electorate back in 2019 in a joint contribution to the report at the time in relation to the discussion of Bill No. 191 from the previous government, and with the agreement of a report that we shared in 2020, in the context of a resolution, that was No. 98 from Enhedslisten. In fact, we promised that the environmental zones would include diesel passenger cars, but we also promised that this would include several municipalities. That's why I say "indemnification" because not all municipalities get the opportunity to create reinforced environmental zones with this bill. One can then say that it is actually on the way. In fact, in relation to the agreement I mentioned earlier, which I mentioned at the outset, in the part of the agreement on the air partnership, we have agreed that the possibility of extending environmental zones to other cities and municipalities should actually be examined. So you can say it's coming. It is a rather laborious process, I would say, all the time that it is a question of giving the municipalities the opportunity and freedom to set up such zones, once we have laid down the criteria for them. So, okay, things are going a little slow, I would say, and we have also said that in the negotiations, but that is where we have reached. This also applies to the zero-emission zones, which are also part of our collective agreement, where we have also agreed to amend the environmental protection law, and can be expected even in the new assembly of parliaments, which we will be coming in the autumn. Here, too, we agree that zero emission zones should be extended to all municipalities. As a general rule, the Enhedslisten seems to be moving too slowly in the green transition, but we are actually quite happy that something is happening now with regard to environmental zones and zero-emission zones, and that this is happening in the next few years. We have particularly pressed for the possibility of these zones being introduced by the municipalities. It must then be up to the citizens to press upon the local rulers, if I may call them that, the local city councils, mayors, etc., in other words to press for the green transition in their respective municipalities. With regard to tightening the requirements of the environmental zones in this draft law, namely to include diesel passenger cars in the zones, we have paid close attention to the exemptions provided for by the law. We are, of course, because it would not have been possible to see that exemptions completely undermine the intention to combat particulate emissions from diesel vehicles, which are the worst source of pollution to the harmful emissions of particles, and which cost deaths every year, especially in cities, of course. We note that exemptions and exceptions are based primarily on the fact that they are not issued if there is a possibility of retrofitting a particulate filter on the vehicle. So we also set aside a pool of 25 million for that purpose. kr. to those for whom such an expense can be prohibitive. It is stated that it costs approx. 6,000 kr. for a filter, so I also think that we are trying to take into account the fact that everyone can meet the requirements. We also note that new requirements are being made for these particulate filters if they are improved through technological development. This is quite important because technological development is likely to take place. Then there is the whole question of advancing requirements for vans. Well, as I have read the comments on the bill, this is about approx. 140 vans, so I do not think the problem is as big as some rapporteurs may be trying to make it. So that includes a very limited number of vehicles. And then we must also say that developments here are also very fast, just as they are on the front of the car at all. Electric vans are also bouncing up at the moment, so there is no need to allow old diesel shakers to be able to drive around and pig as far as 2025. We also have a problem with foreign vehicles, and the system that is being proposed seems very cumbersome and difficult to administer and control. We refuse to use a label system, and there we can imagine the same trouble with the collection of fines via ANPG, i.e. automatic license plate recognition, which is actually involved in charging heavy vehicles in our rest areas. Then I would also have said something about conditional objective responsibility, but I can't do that, I can look at the time, so I'll stop with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208153143	Then I would like to thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur, also for keeping to the time quite perfectly. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208153152	Thank you very much. It is not normal for me to stand here as rapporteur on the subject of this committee and give a speech, but I am a substitute for the legendary and always smiling Mona Juul, and I will then try to see if I can do just as well. At least I am reading from the speech she has written to me: there is no doubt that in these years we need to stop and think about new things when it comes to transport and climate, and when it comes to congestion and many people in the same place also when it comes to health. Every year, approx. 900 people of bilos, so it is absolutely crucial to look at how we make the car park greener and the city's air cleaner. We Conservatives would very much like to take part in this because there should be no doubt that we want to reduce emissions and air pollution. The question, however, is whether this proposal is worth anything at all, or whether it is merely a symbolist policy to the detriment of those who have already planned on the basis of the law in force in the past. Nor is it that easy to get new cars, as the consultation answers also say, and so it is not that easy to find the means to do so in the short term. We simply need to know more about that part, which is why we look forward to following the work of the committee, but we naturally welcome the proposal. We look forward to the work of the committee and are happy to be able to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208153319	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Christian Democrats, and he is. Jens Rohde. It was quick. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208153340	Thank you. Yeah, but I can do that very quickly. I think it is an excellent bill and I just think it should have been spread out to all municipalities. And then I share the views that Mr. Carl Valentin came along with her and Mrs Zenia Stampe, by the way. With these words, I warmly support the proposal and its direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208153400	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. All the rapporteurs who so wished have spoken, and I can give the floor to the Minister for the Environment. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208153409	Thank you for that and thank you for your positive reception. I would also like to start by saying that it is now 14 years since the first environmental zone was introduced, and since then the rules have also been tightened up by a few rounds. By 2020, enforcement of the rules became much more effective because we introduced this digital control based on automatic reading of license plates. Fortunately, we can also see that air pollution is falling in cities, so our efforts are working. But there are still too many Danes who die prematurely or become ill as a result of air pollution, especially in the largest cities where many people live, work and travel daily. And we know that traffic is one of the main sources of urban pollution. Especially during rush hour, pollution from traffic is dominant on our busy streets, and therefore it is relevant to look at how environmental zone rules can be tightened. With the agreement we have made, environmental initiatives in green cities and a capital in development, and this bill we are taking a step in the right direction in terms of ensuring cleaner air in Denmark. The five current environmental zone municipalities, Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Aarhus, Aalborg and Odense, now have the opportunity to tighten up their environmental zones. The municipalities already have environmental zones for heavy traffic and for vans, but with the tightening up, the municipalities can include diesel-powered passenger cars from their existing environmental zones. There is a reason why environmental zones focus on older diesel vehicles that do not have particulate filters. We know that diesel soot is carcinogenic and that older diesel vehicles generally emit more CO2 so it makes sense to extend environmental zone requirements to diesel-powered passenger cars. In this way we reduce particulate pollution from the oldest and most polluting cars in the largest Danish cities. In order to ensure effective enforcement of the environmental zone rules for passenger cars, we propose to continue the rules on conditional objective liability and the issue of administrative fines already in force in the environmental zones today. I am in favour of the rules being able to hit some harder than others, which is why there will also be special transitional arrangements and derogations for people living in environmental zones and others who may have a special need. The diesel-powered passenger cars, which do not have a particulate filter, are currently paying an annual particulate emissions tax of DKK 1,000, but by installing a particulate filter for approx. 6,000 kr. the car owner will comply with the environmental zone requirements and avoid the annual tax. So in the vast majority of cases it will not be necessary to replace the car to access the environmental zone. We have also provided a pool which allows up to 10,000 car owners in the lower income groups to apply for grants of DKK 2,000. for retrofitting particulate filter. For those vehicle owners who cannot get a particulate filter on their car, there will be a number of options to be exempted from the rules for a shorter or longer period precisely for the sake of social justice. There will also be a consultation and warning period for municipalities before the requirements can take effect in the municipality concerned, so that those concerned have time to adapt to the new requirements. The first environmental zones are expected to be introduced in 2023. With the bill, the government also wants to bring forward the requirement for particulate filters for a small group of vans, which would otherwise only be subject to the requirement per year. 1 June 2025. And there I also heard well in this debate that the Danish People's Party had a desire to share the proposal, but I think that it would be appropriate to answer some of the questions in the committee's work in the first place. Because, as was also said by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, it is, after all, approx. 140 vans, that is, and an economic cost of about 1⁄2 million. kr. So let's get it drilled into committee work. If we now ensure, with the bill, that during 2023 we have environmental zones where all diesel cars driving in environmental zones have a particulate filter, it must also apply to all vans. That's how we look at it. I would also like to mention two other points that have been raised in today's debate. First of all, there is the question of whether it would be possible to include the environmental component of diesel cars in other cities in Denmark. And there we have just decided on an air partnership at national level, which should look at and analyse how it could actually be done in other cities, as a basis for making that decision. The second is about the effect. Some have stood up here and asked: Does it really matter? What would it actually have to do if we were to do this? Precisely because traffic has such an impact on our air quality, we know that with the proposal here, it will reduce NO x and particulate emissions by 39%, if the rules applied here this year. That's what you've been able to count on. I myself think this shows how important it is that we are now taking this fight with air pollution, and with this bill, the municipal councils of the largest cities will be able to do what they have also asked for, namely to include the environmental zones in passenger cars, thereby reducing air pollution in our largest cities. As the radical rapporteur said, this is just one of a string of initiatives that we are going to meet about here in Parliament as part of the agreement to ensure greener cities. So I look forward to the committee reading here, but that is also just one element in everything that is going to happen to our cities in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154014	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154019	Thank you to the Minister for the explanatory statement, you might call it, or the explanation, if you will. My question is that this is a possibility. And that is what we think is fine, but, as the Minister also says, it must have an effect, and that will only have an effect if it is actually used. Is it the Minister's expectation that the five cities that now have this opportunity will actually use the opportunity? And if they choose not to use the opportunity, what is the Minister going to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154051	I think it is important to note that we have a number of the major cities in Denmark that have just wanted to include diesel passenger cars in their environmental zones, and they have done so, knowing that traffic is one of the reasons why many people are getting sick or dying prematurely in Denmark. So it has been a concrete wish of the municipalities that we are talking about here that we are now giving them that opportunity. Whether they want to use it or not, it is then up to the municipalities and also the majority that may be in the municipal councils to introduce it here. But that is clearly what we have an indication of. So my expectation is that it is a tool that we are going to see the municipalities use, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154136	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154137	I think we do, too. Because it's kind of weird if you ask something, and then you get to say that you don't want to. So I think we do that too; so far so good. My second question is then more in the direction of the internship that lies behind the industry, and that is what the industry, among other things, is doing. In other words, has the Minister been able to say a little more about why the Ministry evaluates it differently from the industry, in other words, in terms of providing practically the particle filters to be used? So what is the Minister's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154208	I was actually trying to talk about what I said here. For it is clear that we are concerned that there is a social balance, that is, that there is a subsidy for installing a particulate filter on your car. At the same time, there may be cases where this cannot be done. We consider that in the vast majority of cars there will be the possibility of a particulate filter. I think it's in the vicinity of 70%. of the cars we can get an answer to in the committee procedure where there will be access to a particulate filter. But there will also be vehicles where that is not possible, and that is why a notice has also been sent in consultation on precisely exemptions and derogations, so that the citizens who live there are taken into account. It may also be, for example, if you have a specially built disabled vehicle, that there are some other conditions that apply. But the main rule here is to say: we must combat air pollution in Denmark. And there this will be an effective tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154307	The next brief remark is to Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154311	Tell me, is there anything wrong with, at all, spreading the idea of environmental zones to other municipalities? I ask, of course, because it was an essential part of our discussion, and it was actually one of Enhedslisten's main demands. In addition, of course, to the stricter requirements for diesel passenger cars, it was indeed one of our demands that all municipalities should be given this opportunity. However, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, it turned into a rather tedious detour, I would say where it is now included in the agreements on the air partnership, and then they will have to look into it. But does the Minister imagine that such a study could come up with something where they said: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. For there is still a gap in this, at least on the Enhedslisten side, that it is entirely voluntary for a municipality, whether it will be included in this. It will be a matter between the citizens of the municipality or the citizens of the main city of the municipality, or what do I know, and then the city council/mayor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154411	Thank you for the question. It is true that some of what has been important, I think, for all of us, has been looking at how we can actually go further in combating air pollution. And that can be done, among other things. be by securing environmental zones in other parts of Denmark. There you can look partly at the effect of it, partly at how it can be done practically. As part of the political agreement, we have agreed with each other that we must now analyse the possibility of creating environmental zones in several cities. Now I know that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is also the transport rapporteur and is therefore very familiar with the various things that have to be taken into account there. One of the things we discussed about, for example, the metropolitan area was the problem that if you drove towards the metropolitan area, you could end up having to run a sort of slalom between different municipalities if one municipality had chosen it and another municipality did not want environmental zones, and in this way it would be very difficult as a citizen to navigate how these environmental zones were connected. So there is also a practical reality in terms of making this work, but we have agreed with each other that the analysis should be done here this year, and there we will see the basis that will then lie.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154522	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154524	I very much agree that there is a particular problem in the capital. There is no doubt about that, and we discussed it in what became the conciliation circle. But we also suggested during the negotiations that this could be done for the rest of the country, because there is no such problem anywhere else, as far as I can see, in the country and in the country's municipalities. So I guess you could've gotten past that. In any case, the authorization could have been given there. Okay, it wasn't like that, and we're totally behind the deal, and we're voting for this bill, too, and there's no doubt about it. In the same problem of zero-emission zones, I think we got round it and actually decided that it is going to go fast and that we will probably change the environmental protection law as early as the next assembly so that we can put it into effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154611	I can only confirm that some of what is also in our agreement is, of course, that we need these zero-emission zones. They are different from the environmental zones, and that is one of the things we are talking about among the parties that are part of the agreement now. They are characterised by the fact that they are smaller areas, but there you can also say as a municipality that you have seen in this way an area where you want only cars without petrol engines to have access here, and therefore only the green cars, which we also work together to get more of on the Danish roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154645	The next brief remark is to Mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154649	Thank you. First of all, I just want to say thank you for this deal. I think it is extremely important to have a better opportunity at local level to protect citizens from air pollution. This is something that is very dear to me both as a Copenhagener, but also as someone who is in favour of making as many decisions as possible locally, so that we do not focus everything here at Christiansborg. When other rapporteurs ask about the spread of it to several cities, the Minister refers to the air partnership, and I understand that, because they have to look at it here, but it is still very interesting to hear what the Social Democrats really want and hope for in relation to future developments. That is why I just want to hear: does the Minister hope that, when we get some conclusions from the air partnership, we will be able to extend it to more cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154737	What is very important to the government is that we combat air pollution, and there may be different tools for that, and some of what we are addressing today are the environmental zones, but there are also the wood-burning furnaces that we will be treating in this Chamber as one of the other very, very important causes of air pollution in Denmark from Danish sources. So the way we have made the agreement, also with SF, is to say that here air partnership must help us to take the next steps, and one of the next steps may well be to spread environmental zones to other Danish cities, and that is why it is included. We will have the analysis soon, and it will both deal with the practical reality of what it will actually mean and what the basis of decision we will have there and, as the second part, what effect it will have on us to do so. I think it is wise for us to get it in place and make a decision on the basis of it. But it is clear that it is important for us to combat air pollution, and that is why we are taking these very important steps together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154837	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154839	There's gonna be a little bit of a way around it. I do not think I can quite be told whether the Social Democrats would like to go that way. However, it is very clear that we want to combat air pollution, and I know that, and I am, of course, very pleased about it. So that's good. On the other hand, I would like to know if you could imagine that, as you do in other areas, you are setting clear objectives in relation to reducing the number of deaths and the number of respiratory diseases as a result of air pollution, because such objectives can push us towards making the right decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154913	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154914	I am aware that this is one of the wishes of the SF and that has also been put forward and, as I look at it, there are many things in the cooperation we have that we can discuss to see how we actually get to where we want to go. That is also why I repeat that my starting point is that we need to look at how we can ensure that we combat air pollution in Denmark, and that is where we know that people in large cities are also particularly vulnerable, among other things. because of traffic, and that is why we are also addressing environmental areas. But with the air partnership that is now launched, there are a lot of things waiting, and that can be done, among other things. be one of the things that is being lifted up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208154951	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister for the Environment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208155006	I shall begin by pointing out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 10 February. First of all, to justify the question, I should like to give the floor to the rapporteur of the questioners, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208155041	First of all, I would like to thank the two ministers and the rapporteurs for coming here today and discussing a subject which has filled a great deal in the history of Danish law on foreigners and which is an important matter for us in the Radical Left. I am glad to note that a number of parties, including both the governing party and the Left, have opened up in the daily press that we should try to look again at this area. Because is it really a big problem for Denmark if Danes get better, more reasonable and more sensible rules to be able to live with their family in their homeland? I do not think so, and I can see that a number of parties and the government are starting to look at that. That is why I do not really want to spend much more time justifying the question, because I look forward to hearing what the various parties are going to say. I will, of course, come up again as rapporteur to present our position on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208155150	Thank you to the rapporteur for justifying the question. I can give the floor to the Prime Minister in the first place to reply to the question. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208155203	Thank you for the floor. In Denmark we have both a strong society and a strong community. You only get that if you agree on a number of values, among others. right and duty, and of course that everyone who lives in Denmark contributes actively and positively to our society. A community does not come by itself. You have to work hard for that. And now that you have one of the world's best societies, I might say the best society... you have to cherish what it's built on. Therefore, we need to have the very clear expectation that people coming from outside will take in Danish values. One must actively participate in our society, what many fortunately do, and one must of course support oneself when one is part of Danish society. The prerequisite for us to have a country with cohesion and therefore common values is that we do not accept more people than we are able to integrate. For many years, many people have come to Denmark. Many do well and contribute positively, but many do not. Integration has failed in many places and continues to do so. I just remind you of shootings in the streets of Copenhagen right now. And the consequences are far too many. Therefore, the government's perfectly clear starting point is that Denmark must pursue a strict immigration policy and a fair and realistic one. And this requires control over the influx to Denmark, because it is really the only way to ensure that the foreigners who are already here are actually also integrated. The immigration policy we went to the elections at 2019 and that is the one we have worked for every day for 21⁄2 years. This is the right thing for Denmark, and that is also why a majority in the Folketing supports the policy of foreigners. The majority of the Danish population also do so. One of the main pillars of foreign policy is the rules of family reunification. The current rules date back to 2018, when the Social Democratic Party entered into an agreement with the then bourgeois government and the Danish People's Party. It was a reform of the family reunification rules. The aim at that time was strict, balanced and realistic rules for marriage reunification, where integration was at the heart. The principles and wishes underlying the reform are still valid. In recent times, as the rapporteur for the questioners has already mentioned, we have been able to read stories in the media about Danes who are experiencing difficulties when they want to join a family with a foreign spouse. I am not going to go into concrete examples today, but of course the rules for family reunification must include that some Danes, for example, go abroad, experience love, meet their future spouse and want to live a life in Denmark. However, we need to do so with very, very clear demands that focus on integration, and which I would like to add, always have a safeguard to protect not least the many young women with immigrant backgrounds who otherwise risk being embedded in a marriage against their will. Only last week I visited a crisis center in Denmark. I hardly believe that the Danes have the imagination to imagine how many miserable fates are associated with a failed integration, and it is deeply in me when I sit before a young woman of 17 years, 18 years or 19 years of age, whose family, because of religious dogmas and lack of integration into Danish society, will determine the possibilities of childhood. She should not participate in sports; she should not participate in swimming; she should not participate in camp schools; she should not have boyfriends like everyone else; she should not have a completely ordinary child life in Denmark; and she should not, when she becomes a teenager, be allowed to kiss on everyone she wants, just as all other teenagers do. She is not allowed to go to a party; she is not allowed to take the education she may want; and violence, oppression and potentially forced marriage are part of the upbringing she gets in Denmark. And when she has to find the courage to find her own way, she may have to break with a violent family, her religious background and her entire network and live in hiding. When we discuss family reunification rules, not only do we have to discuss the examples in the press with a Danish citizen who wants to be brought together with someone who can easily enter the Danish labour market, but we also have to discuss the girls who have no lawyers and where the indignation I often hear on behalf of them, I will take the liberty of saying that sometimes easy cases in the public sector, as they never get into the public debate or at least very rarely, and that is the forgotten women's struggle in Denmark. And I hope so now I say it a little directly that all of you who are so indignant about the consequences of the tight alien policy will have the same indignation on behalf of the others and also acknowledge that, if we do not have a strict alien policy, we will never be able to help those girls, and we will never be able to secure the conditions for those who come here to be actually integrated. It is not the case that we have to integrate them, but it is the responsibility of the individual. This summer it is four years since the current rules came into force, and the minister responsible has said that it has become time to look at the rules, and therefore a service review has been started. In short, we want to clarify whether the rules work in accordance with what was the political intention. I have also noted that several parties have signed up to look at the rules, and a group of stakeholders should help to identify how the rules work in practice. The Foreign Minister will tell you a little more about that. On the whole, many questions have been given which I cannot answer. That is why we have a Resort Minister who knows the rules in this area. Let me just say in conclusion that I have every understanding throughout the world that love is boundless, and in a globalised world more people will travel, fortunately, and meet love cross-border and cross-border, and fortunately there are also many people who want to live their lives in Denmark. But there is one, and there is one, but the rules for family reunification are there to protect the oppressed and to ensure that no more people can actually be integrated than people can, and therefore there is just an appeal that we not only focus on individual cases, for which a solution might be found, but that we also recognise the need for strict rules. Otherwise, too many families will reproduce repression which, in my view, is unacceptable, no matter where on earth it takes place, but in this country I have a share of responsibility and I will no longer accept the forgotten women's struggle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208155936	Thank you, Prime Minister. One brief comment from the rapporteurs is now available. The first rapporteur to ask for the floor is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208155953	Thank you to the President, and thank you to the Prime Minister. After all, we are pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has called for a review of the current rules. In fact, we ourselves had a resolution on the same subject. Because we all know the many crazy things that have been, but the devil is in the detail, as I said. I just want to know whether we can expect the Prime Minister's government's approach to be that the adjustments that come should be in a direction where ordinary Danes can get their spouse with, after working abroad or having found love abroad, without at the same time opening up relaxations for people from parallel societies and people who want to bring their wives here from especially Muslim countries where we see catastrophic integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160038	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160039	But that is the challenge and it will continue to be the challenge in the field of foreigners. For, fortunately, when we are a large majority in the Folketing, who take responsibility for correcting the decades of failed immigration policy that have been conducted in this country, we will have to have very, very strict rules, and very, very strict rules also sometimes miss out, and that is unfortunate. We must also be honest and say that a majority of us in here have decided to do so, and we have to say with open eyes and with a straight back that we would rather have the area of foreigners under control, and that sometimes some people are caught up than the opposite. That is why I am not going to stand by and promise that legislation can be found that makes it the right thing to do for family reunification, and at the same time, for example, we are getting the reproduction of the parallel society. Because it's hard, but that's what you have to negotiate and see if you can't find a solution to it. And there I am thinking that we can at least get a good deal of the way together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160135	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160137	Thank you for that, and thank you for a good speech from the Prime Minister. As usual, I have to say that I agree with the vast majority when it comes to intentions, but that I can again sit and be deeply concerned today that we have a government which has the right intentions but which is doing all the wrong things. For the fact is that, despite the Prime Minister's saying that the Prime Minister works for this every day and has done so in the parliamentary term we have been in, it has done exactly the opposite. Terrorists have been actively taken to Denmark; several quota refugees have been taken to Denmark; the benefits for immigrants in Denmark have been considerably increased; and immigrants in Denmark have been made easier to obtain the right to public support. So can't the Prime Minister just explain so briefly what the Prime Minister and the Government have done during this period, which is not just words and fine speeches? Because I fully agree with everything the Prime Minister says, but I deeply, deeply disagree with what the Prime Minister and the Government put in the Chamber, as if everything that is going on here is something that is a little secret and that no one will ever notice. Yes, the Danes discover it out there because you feel the consequences of it. So what has the government done to move in the right direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160244	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160245	The crucial thing, I think, is to look at figures and look at facts, and we have control of the influx to Denmark today. And I could not dream of saying that it is only the government's merit, because it will be the case with any government, even when at some point a bourgeois government comes, that the world around us naturally affects us. The big influx in 2015 I never claimed at any time was Inger Løjberg's fault. It was Inger Løjberg who sat in the government at the time when there were really, really many asylum seekers and something like that is lame and, I think, not the way we should discuss with each other. However, we must ensure that we have legislation that responds to the movements that are in the eternal pressure that is on European borders. And it has to be said in all modesty that Denmark is doing well to continue to manage this area fortunately, and that is thanks to the fact that there is a broad political majority, and I hope that this will continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160346	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160347	Thank you. I would like to start by reassureing the Prime Minister that what the government calls the forgotten women's struggle is certainly not forgotten by the Enhedslisten and our part of the left, and I can guarantee that we will fight these women's struggles with exactly the same indignation that we are fighting against the Prime Minister's strict immigration policy. Now to the question. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, as a Social Democrat, who is fighting for more equality. How does she feel about having to scrape a lot of money together to meet the requirements we have for marriage and family reunification in Denmark? That is, of course, a significant inequality, I would say. You need to scrape up a lot of money to meet these demands, and that means that there are some people who will never ever be able to meet the demands we have made on the economic front.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160441	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160441-2	But this is a very good example of what we are forced to do. Because if you want to know how many people are coming here, you have to put in place the safeguards that are possible. And one of them is one of them. a financial guarantee. I do not think that many people would necessarily look that way clearly if we ourselves were to be completely sovereign in defining what Danish immigration policy should look like. We cannot do that because of international obligations which this government has no intention of giving up. That's why we're doing it. We might as well be honest about all the jumps in the world with each other in here to get that protection done, so there's no more coming here than integration can succeed. Of course, I am happy to hear indignation in relation to the forgotten women's struggle. I just have to say that when I observe the debate on foreigners, these are not the women we hear the most about. My claim is that there are plenty of children and women in Denmark who are oppressed every day without there being demonstrations for them at the Palace Square. I've never seen it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160548	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160549	Thank you to the President, thank you to the Prime Minister. Here in the speech, the Prime Minister made an appeal to all of us who often target the government. The PM did the same in questioning hours before. Then I also have an appeal to the Prime Minister. Would the Prime Minister please remember the thousands and thousands of citizens who are strangled in this system because they say they want to have strict immigration policies? That's my appeal to the Prime Minister. Will the Prime Minister not also remember the thousands and thousands of people who do it fantastic but simply choke in these rules? We're talking about the 24-year rule, we're talking about the bank guarantee. I have said to our Minister for Integration several times that there's the thing about Category 5. That means that if you are from Pakistan, Somalia or Yemen, it doesn't matter who you are and how you are, because then you can't come to Denmark because you have categorized the countries in Category 5. I'm thinking that now that we're going to meet in the middle, why don't we give each other a handshake that we remove all these crazy rules and then put in, tailor-made, so that we help the women who need help, because the phenomenon that the Prime Minister is talking about exists, but we put in, tailor-made, helping them and also helping the others who get hit by these rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160707	Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160708	Every day, every day and in all the debates I enter into, I will recognise the many people with a foreign background, wherever you come from, who have come to Danish society and make a positive contribution to it. I meet them in all kinds of different contexts and greatly appreciate their participation in Danish society. I don't recognize anyone being strangled in the rules. Because I think that the question I have to ask the other way is about the young woman I spoke to the other day, who is Syrian refugee in Denmark and who has recently been forced to a Middle Eastern country by her Syrian parents, who are also refugees, in order to be forced to marry a man from Syria. How am I supposed to protect her if there are no rules? How am I supposed to protect her if there are no rules for her not to be forced to marry someone she doesn't even know from a Middle Eastern country? If she has a residence in Denmark, she must live a free life here. She is not to be transported to a Middle Eastern country and married against her will. How am I supposed to protect her if there are no firm rules? And I really care about her rights, and I really care about her freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160811	Thank you. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160812	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for the time being from the Prime Minister. I think the speech showed a little what I think is the challenge of the foreign debate, because the Prime Minister spoke of shootings and forced marriages and just before about a Syrian woman being forced to marry. That is just not what family reunification rules regulate, because there you have to live up to the rules of permanent residence or citizenship, and that means that if you look through these people and look at the statistics, you will see that they are not the ones making forced marriages or shootings, and that is why it sort of misses what we would like to discuss, namely Paragraph 9 of the Aliens Act. That is why I just want to express a hope, and it may then be a question to the Prime Minister about trying to look through the figures for Danish-international couples and their integration and then see if they really are the ones who are the problem that the Prime Minister was talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160919	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208160921	But I'm sorry, is that right? Does the rapporteur really not believe that there are people who have Danish citizenship or permanent residence who are trying to force their children into a marriage against their will? I'm quite sure that's what's going on. Well, that's exactly what we're discussing. I would like a Dane who travels out and works and meets love and meets a spouse who can support himself and contribute positively to Danish society, to have the opportunity to live with him in Denmark, at least for a period of time. But we have to set it up in such a way that we protect the others. What is our problem is that we once thought that once people had been in Denmark for a number of years, had learned the language, had got a job, they could not dream of marrying their children away to some peripheral relative. We were quite convinced that you wouldn't do that, but there are some who still want to do that, and the girls and women, and indeed the rights of young men, are just as important as the engineer who travels to the United States and meets love and wants to live with the person in Denmark. So what is our task is to find a balance between the two things, and I would like to respond to that and that is also what the Minister has said to find a way to find a solution to some of the stupid cases, as is being said. But we still have to take care of all the others and take care of our cohesion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208161036	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208161037	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister for his speech and also for the comments on the balance that needs to be found between, on the one hand, focusing on the fact that we live in a global world where several Danes find love outside the borders of the country, but, at the same time, there is also a need to stick to some of the things in our immigration policy that protect our society from the obvious challenges we face with integration. The Prime Minister has stressed on several occasions both in his speech and in his replies that, in the Prime Minister's view, it is positive that the rules we have now are broadly based in the Folketing, and so I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister has an ambition that, when these negotiations are over, we still have widely based rules in the area of family reunification, or in other words whether the Prime Minister could envisage concluding an agreement on new family reunification rules without there being blue parties represented in such an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208161136	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208161137	I would prefer this to be based on the political centre, and we have said from the outset, as far as foreign policy is concerned, that this is our wish. For this is so vital for Danish society and for the Danes in the future that yes, major decisions should be taken across the political centre, especially in relation to family reunification rules, that this is what we must aim for. I cannot promise how negotiations are concluded; it is out of my hands in many ways. But I certainly think that is something we should all go for together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208161212	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208161214	Thank you. It annoys me a little that so many sparks are going on now; I thought that the last time we discussed foreign policy in here, it was kind of quieter and quieter. But it is probably also because these are important issues that are at stake, and there are some great values at stake. I just wanted to follow up on Mrs Rosa Lund's question, because the Prime Minister said that this limit is one of the things you are forced to do. I do not think one can say that one is forced to make such rules. I mean, you could have secured strict legislation without making this specific requirement, which in my optics is class policy, and which hits the lower class pretty hard when you have such a limit of DKK 100,000. I'm sorry. But I would like to hear the Prime Minister: when we get this revision of the legislation, is the ambition that we have to see fewer unhappy cases like those we have seen in the press over the past few years, with people who wish they could live together, but unfortunately do not get the opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208161313	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208161314	But just to take this with the amount, I'm gonna ask if it's not a little bit too easy. Because when I look at the discussion over many years in this area, there are a number of parties that have opposed almost everything, i.e. also against the 24-year rule, also against the attachment requirement, also against the rules on permanent residence, also against the rules on citizenship, etc. And so, and that is why, if you take out a single element, I think you could always have some sympathy for that, even in the public debate, that if we have to regulate it here and we have to regulate it, and the SF recognizes that too, otherwise our society simply cannot hang together, then you have to set up a safeguard and therefore also some rules. And yes, they're going to miss. I have no need to hide the fact that if we want to pursue a strict policy on foreigners, it will have negative consequences for those who get into trouble and who we really want to help, and there is a joint task, and that is what we are saying today on the part of the government. So let's sit down together and see if we can't find those solutions, so that we, among other things, can. meet some of the unhappy stories. We should not forget just how many people we also protect, including our cohesion in society, by dared to pursue a strict immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208161431	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208161435	I don't really have much objection to it rubbing a little bit. In fact, I think it is a pleasure to hear a Prime Minister who is really in the mood here, because then you can feel that she means what she says, in earnest. I think that is actually a pleasure, and it is just before that I am getting a little tired of getting more and more excited about the Prime Minister's speeches and feeling the need to say so. I can also say that I have a hinterland that also finds it annoying that I say it, but it has to be said when it is good, and I think that the Prime Minister is making a rather good speech here, which reminds us of all the dilemmas we face. I'd like to sign for that. There is one place where I have a little problem with causality, which I think has a little flaw, at least in some areas. I find that the Prime Minister is almost making a consistent contradiction between integration and family reunification. I believe, if you talk to many people, that some of what can strengthen their integration is also the certainty that they have the right to their family and that you have family reunification not in all cases, I recognise that, but in many cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208161549	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208161551	I think that all people have the right to a family life, but that does not mean that you have the right to it in Denmark, I have to say. And I think that if that is what is referred to, that is to say that it is also about refugees and refugees' ability, like to consolidate themselves, that some of what many of us in fact find hardest to recognise is that we often see a fugitive as a victim, but that a fugitive can also be a perpetrator. So a move can go from being a victim of expulsion or war or conflict to being a perpetrator when, for example, he is a perpetrator. Beats his wife and so on. So that's it. Well, the right to family life is more complex than that. I do not think that there are any more questions now, so let me just come back to what I said earlier, namely that yes, there are some examples that the legislation is wrong, also wrong in relation to some of those we really want to help. I think we should search in a political space if we can help them. It is just a very, very strong appeal on my part to remember why it is necessary to pursue a strict immigration policy, and it is after decades of failed immigration policy with associated failed integration, and those who pay the price for it are • besides the broad Danish society • especially the girls and women who live oppressed lives in Denmark, and this should not take place at all in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208161711	Thank you for that, thank you to the Prime Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next one we get on the platform is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208161726	Thank you to the President and thanks to the callers of the question debate. As the Prime Minister mentioned, and as the rapporteur also knows, a service review of the rules on marriage is now under way. These are some rules that have been substantially amended by a reform in 2018. As you know, the reform is based on an agreement reached by the Social Democratic Party together with the former bourgeois government and DF. The aim of the reform was in particular to put integration at the heart, which means that those who come to Denmark must contribute to the economy, to the cohesion and support the Danish welfare society. The reform therefore highlighted whether, on the basis of the relationship of both spouses, there is a prospect of the successful integration of the spouse coming to Denmark. With the 2018 amendments, there were among others. the introduction of an integration requirement. It contains a total of six conditions. One of them is a mandatory requirement for the resident's Danish knowledge. This is among other things. the mandatory requirement that has been discussed in a number of newspaper articles lately. Marriage couples or regular couples who want family reunification must meet at least three of the other five conditions in addition to the mandatory requirement for the resident's Danish knowledge together. And these are requirements for language, education and work. It is now almost four years since the reform came into force, and that is why I think it is natural and sensible to look at whether the rules work according to the political intention behind the reform. As I said from the first day of the ministerial office, the Aliens Act must be strict, not crazy, and if you read the first reading, from when we dealt with the amendment to Section 9 of the Aliens Act, i.e. the rules of marriage reunification, then I also think I can read from the speakers that we shared about the same ambition about some spouse reunification rules that supported integration and which, as is so my interpretation, are tight, but where we can avoid some of the crazy individual cases that always take place in the field of aliens. It is after some public debate that has been running for some time with a background in some specific cases that I have now decided that it makes sense to look at the rules and see if they work as intended, and therefore the old reform from 2018 has now been carried out in the workshop, so that we can carry out a service review. The aim is to clarify whether the rules are working in accordance with what we were thinking at the time or whether, in some respects, they are going wrong in practice. For the purpose of the service review, a stakeholder group has been set up to help identify how these rules work so that we can get some input and get an analysis, among other things. of the cases which ended in refusal. The stakeholder group shall consist, inter alia, of: by representatives of the Council of Lawyers, Danes Worldwide, the Association of Foreigners' Attorneys, the Institute of Human Rights, Marriage Without Borders, the National Association of Municipalities, the Foreigners' Board and the Foreigners' Board. It is therefore a group consisting of both public authorities and private organisations, and it is in order to ensure a broad collection of experience. My ambition is that the work of the group can form the basis for political discussions, and the first meeting of the stakeholder group will be held as early as tomorrow, 9 February. Let me conclude by saying that, of course, I cannot say anything at this stage about the adjustments that the service can bring, and I think that the analysis of the area will show something else, at least something more than the newspaper articles that have been published. But I look forward to discussing all this with the parliamentary rapporteurs, and I will, of course, keep the whole parliament informed, and I look forward to further work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162131	Thank you for that to the Minister. There are a few brief comments. There is now an opportunity for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and the first one is from Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162140	Thank you to the President, thank you to the Minister. I'll try to continue where I got off with the PM. There are challenges, let's solve them. Where the problem arises for me is that they say that there is a problem here and then we make a solution that hits everyone and then it becomes a problem for everyone. For example: is the case when we put some countries in category 5. It's just one example. What does it have to do with forced marriages, putting a country into category 5? The Minister knows very well that parents cannot visit their children, sisters cannot come and visit a sister if needed. Those are the crazy rules, that's where you shoot with the shotgun, and then you say, "Now we have to solve something." Why aren't we tailoring, why aren't we more precise? Let us hit hard on those who exercise negative social control, hard on them, hard on them, and then let us take care to help those who do not. That is the thing about saying that because we have to help some people here as we should, we have to punish all other people. That is what I think is the challenge of foreign policy and the foreign debate, and that is why it is so polarised.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162252	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162253	Let me start by saying that we would like to strike down hard on those who exercise social control, and we have also, fortunately in full agreement in the Folketing, tightened the penalties in that area, and I am pleased about that. Now the visa rules may be slightly outside what the question debate has been called for, but now it has been raised a few times, so let me just say that it is true that all the countries of the world are divided into five categories. Category 1: They can just travel into Denmark. In Category 5, it's more difficult to get a visa. And that is because we have experience of the fact that if a visa is granted, for example. to Somali citizens who enter, many of them seek asylum afterwards, and we do not want that. It is the same with Pakistanis, and the rapporteur also mentions Yemen. Then there are categories 4, 3 and 2, and the higher the category you enter, the harder it is to get a visa. I would say that, in the specific case of Pakistan, half of those who are looking for visas will, after all, get it. We are simply insisting on a rather restrictive approach, and if, for example, we do so. If you're going to a funeral or something, you can get a visa. Lots of people get that. But it is true that it is much harder for a Pakistani than for an American, and that is because there are not very many Americans who seek asylum when they come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162402	Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162403	Thanks also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration for his time. The Prime Minister spoke of forced marriages, and now the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration speaks of successful integration. Both are difficult to disagree with. The problem is that the rules that are made have nothing to do with it. As I said before, one must be a citizen and/or comply with the rules of permanent residence in order to apply at all. Then there will be, for example. a demand for 5 years of full-time employment in Denmark, and then it's just that I say: If you have 10 years of part-time employment in Denmark or 1 year of full-time employment in Denmark or 20 years of full-time employment abroad, it doesn't count. Then you can't get that point in relation to family reunion. And because you do not just have 5 years of full-time employment, can you not integrate a spouse? And is this a forced marriage? Such a requirement makes no sense if it is the two things you want to ensure. How does the Minister feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162514	As the rapporteur also knows, the history in this area is, of course, that a few decades ago, in this Chamber, we adopted an attachment requirement which ended up meaning that if the couple's overall relationship with another country was stronger, it could be refused family reunification. We then had an exception to that, initially for those who had reached the age of 28 years, namely the 28-year rule. It was then overruled by the international court, and that is why the whole regime we had around the association provisions went aside and we had to come up with something new. There I thought back in 2017 and 2018, when we discussed it back then and I still think that it was a more sensible regime, we went to where we define some different conditions, in this case six, and say that you have to meet four of them. You don't have to fulfill all six, but four of them. It is then about Danish knowledge, employment and other integration-relevant parameters, and it is all to support that the couple who then live in Denmark is also able to be integrated into Danish society. We do not have to live up to everything, including the employment requirement. There is only one requirement that is mandatory, and it is the resident's Danish knowledge. I also think it is okay and reasonable that the people who want a foreign spouse to Denmark speak Danish at a reasonable level.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162628	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162629	Thank you. It's actually just a call to the Minister. Because when we met in the contract circle, we all came together with a number of questions because we think it is important not only to get the stakeholder group to provide their input, but also that we parties can identify what kind of cases there are. How many, let's say stupid cases are there? How many people bring their spouses here from e.g. The big Middle East, after which they end up in parallel societies? Those questions were written down by the Minister's officials, and the Minister promised that we would have the figures transmitted so that we could ask even more questions. We haven't quite got them yet, so it's really just a call, both that we get the figures sent over, but also that the parties of the Folketing are involved as much as possible in the process, so not only is this stakeholder group going to contribute to the service inspection.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162720	I would like to start by repeating what I said at that meeting, namely that we will, of course, work hard to get the delegation to Parliament so that we can have as qualified a discussion as possible. But I'll give you a single number. Last year, there were almost 6,000 people seeking family reunification according to these rules. Nearly 4,000 were granted a permit, and nearly 2,000 were refused. This is a relatively high refusal rate, even in general terms in the field of foreigners. Last year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration examined 82,000 applications for residence permits. A residence permit was granted in 75,000 cases, and 7,000 were refused. So normally it is far, by far the majority of the people who apply for a residence permit in Denmark who actually get it, but in the area of family reunification it was one third at least last year that was refused. The great nationalities of those who are staying are Thailand, the Philippines, the United States. If you take the top ten, you will also see countries like Turkey. But what you can also see, if you look at the difference between the rules that were before 2018 and the rules that came after 2018, is that there has been a reduction in the number of family reunification permits notified, and that there has been a minor change in which countries' citizens are being granted the most family reunification permits, and I will of course ensure that those numbers are transferred.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162840	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162844	Thank you. I didn't really feel I got a reply from the Prime Minister, so since it's a minister from the same government, allow me to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration the same thing I asked the Prime Minister about. Because you get the feeling that it is important for the government to take care of Denmark and that we should not open up further migration from Muslim countries. Nevertheless, the government has actually taken a number of steps towards opening up more migration, not as a consequence of the airtight closed borders under the covid. The Prime Minister is right: it is not the government's or Denmark's fault that people have not come here; it is external events that have put a plug in that hole. However, the measures that the government has actively implemented with its parliamentary basis have been actively taking terrorists to Denmark, to open up more quota refugees, to provide higher benefits to immigrants, including from non-western countries, and to make it easier for them to obtain the right to public support. So what has the government done in the opposite direction for everything that both the Minister now and the Prime Minister have said before was important?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162957	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208162958	It is true that this government has put forward legislative proposals that have ensured that Mint and others in her situation could become Denmark. It is true that we have removed the user fee from Danish education, so many more foreigners now learn Danish. It is true that the children have come out of Soulsmark. All this is correct and we are not in any way in a situation where we are ashamed of it. It is just as true that we have put forward legislative proposals that have made us withdraw citizenship, I think we are up to 12 foreign fighters, who subsequently • according to what I know at least has not entered Denmark. It is also true that when this government took over, 1,100 asylum seekers were rejected in the sending position. It's $300,000. to have one of the persons accommodated at a Danish exit centre per year. Now we're down to 800. It's raged down, among other things. Because we've made a new Returns Board and a new Returns Act. So I think we have implemented a lot of sensible policies. The challenges may sometimes be that the facts of the debate disappear a little, among other things. there are very, very few rejected asylum seekers in relation to what it has been like in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208163106	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks. The first is the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208163129	635 was the number of Danes who last year were refused to live with the person they love in their own country, Denmark, rejection because the spouse is from a non-EU country, although people can support themselves; even though people have done nothing criminal. Yet they are told to move away from their homeland and live their family life abroad. The only thing people have done wrong is fall in love with a foreigner. Let me tell you the story about Nicole. Her father is Danish and supports himself, he works as a bicyclesmith. The mother is from the Philippines and came to Denmark as an au pair, and when Nicole was born, the mother worked as a cleaning assistant at the local hospital. Nicole's parents got no family reunion. That's why the family chose as the last resort for Nicole to seek family reunion with her mother. At that time she was 5 years old and went to kindergarten, and the parents supported herself. Nevertheless, Nicole refused to live with her mother in her own homeland and her father's homeland. They could go to the Philippines if they wanted to live together. A little girl! What on earth do we think we are? Today Nicole is 8 years old and has won her case after years of struggle because human rights protect her when she was 7 years old. Then, according to human rights, she must live with her family in Denmark. It doesn't make any sense. And I am ashamed that we treat Danes, not least small children, in this way just because they have found love or have a parent from a country that a majority of this Parliament does not like. There is no common sense in the rules that affect Danes, who are so in quotation marks unlucky to find love abroad. Year after year, this Parliament has competed over who has the tightest immigration policy. No one, including the Radical Left, wants completely open borders and no rules. But are all the rules that have been implemented over the last 20 years reasonable and reasonable, not least for our own citizens who, on the studio, on the holiday, at work, on the Internet or just here in Denmark, find the love of their lives in a foreigner? Why should they be hit and sent out of the country if they want to live in their own country with their families? I think it's wrong. Facts from ministries show that Danes' spouses are less criminal than Danish citizens. They may not receive social benefits during the first many years of employment after a few years and, according to the Ministry of Finance, they are a financial contribution of 75 million. kr. a year. So it is a myth that Danish-international couples should pose a major problem. On the other hand, the current rules pose a very big problem for the Danes, whose only error is that they have found love in a person whose ancestry is outside the EU. Therefore, on behalf of the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, I have to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that today we have legislation which prevents Danes from living in their own country with the one they love. In 2021 alone, 635 Danish or Nordic citizens were informed that their spouse was not welcome in Denmark. Appraisal of the Folketing requires the government to make proposals to amend the Aliens Act so that Danes have a real opportunity to establish themselves in their home country, regardless of the fact that they have found love outside the country's borders. • V 38).
ParlaMint-DK_20220208163603	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments. Here you go, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208163612	I didn't push the button. Thank you for raising this debate. I would also find it a pity if the rapporteur did not have a question, because this is a relevant debate. I have to link this to what the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party have said, namely that Mrs Mette Frederiksen will simply not be referred to as Prime Minister because it is considered to be a self-willing government and there are plenty of reasons for it. One of the reasons is precisely that the government, the Social Democratic Party, has not been able to move on to the issue of foreign policy. Then I would like to hear from the rapporteur how radicals feel they will have more relaxed rules, for example. pointing to a blue prime minister candidate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208163708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208163709	That is what we want to look into in the negotiations. Now it was the Left Party that was the first in this case to go out and say: let's look at the rules. It was also Mrs Pernille Vermund, by the way. So the negotiations must show that. It is clear that we do not intend to conduct foreign policy with the New Civil and Danish People's Party when they want out of the Convention on Human Rights. Now, in my speech, I mentioned a matter in which it was actually human rights that had ensured that a small Danish girl could live with her family. We will try to pull the Left and the Conservatives against us, just as we will try to draw the Socialists towards us. That is the essence of our message.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208163748	Thank you to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208163749	In the Free Greens, we have such an ambivalent relationship with your announcement. On the one hand, we are happy, because over the last two years we have said again and again to the support parties: pull the support, pull the support, you can move something. That's when all the support parties came together. But now the Radical Left says: okay, we certainly cannot continue to say that we support Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister no matter what. That's how far we're happy. Where, on the other hand, the chain jumps off, we think, is that you then open up to point to a blue prime minister, because that certainly does not make it any better. That is why I call on the Radical Left to say: let us go together, all parties, and say that we refuse to point to a Prime Minister who will pursue an inhuman immigration policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208163832	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208163833	The essence is that we will go where we can have the most influence. And if the Social Democratic Party changes course and wants to play a part in pursuing a different foreign policy, we are of course closer and can allow the Social Democratic Party to continue. But if that is not possible, then of course we will look into what other prime minister candidates will be involved in. It's to get politics through. We do not believe that this will be achieved by locking ourselves in a block, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208163902	Then we would like to thank the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the round is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208163910	Thank you to the Radical Left for taking the initiative in today's debate. The subject we are debating today, Mr. Andreas Steenberg of the Radical Left wrote a whole book about. The book is called "Forbidden Love" and I myself have had the pleasure of reporting it, and I think it contains good points. Sir. Andreas Steenberg presents a number of examples of families who have had difficulty in getting married couples together. Several of the examples are about families who contribute positively to Denmark. When you hear about a Danish-American couple, for example, who would like to settle in Denmark, but experience large leg buckles, it annoys me. Intuitively I think at once: we must be able to change that. And if there are rules that stand in the way of common sense, I certainly think we should look at them, but one should think carefully. Mr. Andreas Steenberg, too. He may want the legislation changed, but he does not argue in the book that everything should be rolled back. Sir. Andreas Steenberg also acknowledges on page 19 that a moralizing approach has suppressed a vital debate on problems of integration and at least some immigrant groups. ▪ The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has now announced a service review of the rules. I am excited to see what is being achieved in the service inspection and what ideas are being put on the table. To the extent that it is possible to calibrate the rules so that they do not buckle for Danes who meet love abroad, it will be positive. Conversely, it is part of history that legislation works to a large extent, and unfortunately it has been necessary because immigration has been massive since 1983 in particular, because citizenship has been distributed round-handedly for too many years, even for people who do not speak Danish, and because cultural customs have meant that young people born and raised in Denmark still marry someone from their parents' home country. Therefore, there was a need for strong tightening up of family reunification rules in 2002 and since the rules in 2018 that are now under review. Those tightenings should not be flushed out with the bathing water. The rules must be the same for everyone and, unfortunately, relatively strict rules are needed. It would not have been if everyone who had been married to Denmark in recent decades had simply become part of the community and culturally, economically and socially. But because integration is a major challenge, we must set up fence posts. It is not unreasonable to have affordable requirements for language skills, employment, education, housing and, in any case, self-sufficiency. Alternatively, it could quickly remain with the Danish taxpayers who came to fund family and spouse reunifications. On behalf of the Left, Conservatives, Liberal Alliance, New Civil and Social Democracy, I will read out a proposal for adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has taken the initiative to clarify whether the rules of the Marriage Association Reform of 2018 are working as intended, and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has set up a stakeholder group in this regard which, together with the parties of the Danish Parliament, will help to identify how the rules work in practice. The Folketing meets the result of the service inspection, as the Folketing agrees that the rules on marriage must be strict but also work as intended. • V 39).
ParlaMint-DK_20220208164217	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208164234	Thank you for that, President. The current family reunification rules were agreed between the then VLAK government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party back in 2018. The idea behind the reform in 2018 was to make it easier and more flexible for resident Danes and foreign dancers to get their spouse to the country, while making it more difficult for non-integrated people to have family reunification. It made good sense, and it still makes it go away. Because, on the one hand, we need to consider that the world is becoming more and more globalised and that it is more common for Danes to find a spouse outside the country......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the other hand, as a society, we need to ensure that those who are brought together in the family of Denmark are really integrated and will contribute to society. Therefore, back in 2018, a number of changes were made to the family reunification rules. For example, it made it considerably harder to get a family reunion if you lived in a ghetto, and then you abolished the then attachment requirement and replaced it with the six conditions of integration, of which the couple together must live up to four. One of them is indispensable, namely that the resident spouse should be able to speak Danish. In addition, there are a large number of other requirements, and those requirements are quite reasonable from the outset. These are requirements for language, education, employment, etc. Those are sensible demands. That is what the Left thought at the time, and that is what the Left believes today. Because we must not forget to make demands. This is important because we are still left with a number of massive integration problems in our society, economic, social and cultural, so that the principles behind the agreement in 2018 were sensible, and they remain so. But one thing is principle, another is reality, and sometimes you have to stop and look at the impact of the legislation you make. And when we do it in the Left, it is our analysis that the reform back from 2018 on some stretch has worked well. In particular, the tightening up of residence or employment has been a good thing. But we can also now see that since the rules came into force, there have also been a number of negative effects. The new rules have given unfair challenges to ordinary Danes. One of them is Bent Lange. His history has been described in Jyllands-Posten. He's a workman, and he's still working, even though he's 75 years old. He lives on a farm a little outside of Auning, and here Bent lives alone, and Bent lives alone because he cannot get his wife here, and Bent cannot, because, according to the Danish authorities, he does not speak Danish, and Bent does not, because according to him Bent left school after confirmation and started working. Now Bent can't find his school papers because the village school is closed, and the National Archives can't help Bent, and therefore the authorities say to Bent: You can't speak Danish. The way he is offered to document his Danish knowledge is then by a digital test, but as Bent himself says, it is with computers not like him. So now Bent lives alone on his farm. That was not the point of the 2018 rules, because here we are talking about a man who has been Danish all his life, who has supported himself and who contributes to society, but because of the missing school papers from the school he left 60 years ago, he cannot now get his spouse to the country. That story is not unique. We've heard of others who've gotten into the same situation. That is why the Left has also said that we are willing to look at the current rules to solve the challenges that ordinary Danes have encountered. That is why we have been pleased to note that the government has launched an evaluation of the rules in force and has subsequently indicated that it will call for political negotiations. We are going to enter into these negotiations very constructively, but not because we want a general relaxation of family reunification rules here in Denmark. It would be a wrong path to go down, because we must maintain the principles behind the old agreement, but you can therefore look at whether you can adjust and change the places where the agreement today presents some challenges for ordinary Danes. We agree with the text of the adoption which was read out by the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208164749	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208164752	I would like to pay tribute to the courage shown by the Left in going out and saying that some of the rules you have been involved in when you were in government do not work as intended. I have great respect for that. Then I would like to ask a completely open question, because the rapporteur is now talking about this language requirement, which a number of Danes have typically experienced between the ages of 50 and 60, because they left school after the 7th grade, and then they say that they cannot get Danish enough to be able to have family reunification. But are there other specific rules among the very many rules that are enough to deal with in this area that the Left can already say one would like to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208164836	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208164837	First to the Danish requirement: Here we come across the fact that in the Left optics it is quite obviously sensible principle that we ourselves helped to introduce in 2018, which is about the fact that if you want family reunification to Denmark, you have to be able to speak Danish • It is wise, it is sensible, it is to take good care of Denmark • bumps into a reality where we have some people who have left school after the 7th grade and then suddenly cannot prove that they can speak Danish, despite the fact that everyone who has the slightest bit of sense can see that they can do so. It's a challenge. Let's see if we can solve that. I hope what I think, but I can't promise. Are there anywhere else where, compared to the requirements we introduced in 2018, we can face the same challenges? That may well be, and that is why an evaluation has been launched, which we have welcomed, and which can help identify whether there are other areas. I will not be opposed to that. The important thing for us is that the principles behind the agreement in 2018 stand in place, where it was intended to make it easier for some people, about whom we said they can contribute to Denmark, and that they have taken Denmark to them; they can actually get marriage together but harder for some others, especially those that we know give our society challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208164948	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208164949	Thank you for your answer. So let me try to ask for a specific requirement, because I know that the Left is very concerned about this employment requirement. As I mentioned before, you have to have 5 years of full-time employment in Denmark before you can get a point. I would just like to be explained: why is it that a person who works as a doctor and has been doing so for 10 months because it is 10 months since the person was graduated so just have to wait 4 years and 2 months before the person can apply? Why is it that it cannot count that you have a job at the time you are looking for? Why should you have worked five years full-time before you have to apply? What's the point of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208165035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208165036	The idea of employment requirements all the places we have done in the Danish legislation on foreigners, and if not all, then almost everyone has come to the fore on the initiative of the Left, because we care a lot about employment and that people have to support themselves and their families, is that you show that you don't put the Danish society at risk, that you show everyone else that you can support yourself and your family, so that we don't get a lot of people here that everyone else has to support. For we must remember that the alternative to supporting ourselves and your family is to ask all other taxpayers to do so. And we basically don't think it's fair to ask the Danish taxpayers to fund a lot of people who come here from outside and don't order anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208165116	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208165130	Thank you for that and thank you for asking the question. It is actually about whether the government will take the initiative to carry out a review, and the government has said that the government would like to do so. The question is therefore almost finished, but it is not. Actually, I was listening a lot to the Prime Minister's speech. The Prime Minister used his speaking time to talk in general about foreign policy in Denmark and about what kind of a piece is also about family reunification. I think that is actually true, so that when you look at the immigration policy in this way, it is a number of things, and among other things. Such a thing as family reunification is also an element in it. Why is it so important that family reunification is not very easy? Why is it important not to have easy access to social services? Why is it important that there is an employment requirement? Well it is important because Denmark must be an attractive country to come to, but also an attractive country to come to if you can contribute and be part of the community. Unfortunately, we have to say that we have not succeeded in doing so. I say 'we', because the Danish People's Party has also been with us for a long time. We have not succeeded in getting proper integration into Denmark. Unfortunately, we see far too many people who do not have a good life, who we point our finger at and say: they do crime, they don't look after their girls properly, they keep people in a social iron grip. Yes, they do, and we are pointing our fingers at that. But are there any winners? No, actually, there's only losers. Society is a loser because people are on passive support and do not contribute to the community. People are also losers, because I don't think anyone wants that life. But if you haven't seen anything else, it's the cultural heritage in which you live, and that's what's a normal picture, and then you're in it. As long as we have not succeeded in doing so, we find it very, very difficult to see at all some places where we can relax. In fact, all we see is that we can tighten up. In fact, we also believe that because we are one of the richest countries in the world and also know that some of those who are on the run are fleeing from war and poverty and everything else of what is happening around the world, it is very, very important that we, as communities, as one of the richest societies in the world, also help in the vicinity. We have been involved in this every time we have sat and been part of the parliamentary basis of the Finance Act, in other words to do more in the neighbourhoods. So we're also saying that we're spending 0.7 per cent. of gross domestic product each year. So when things go well, there's actually more money. We think we should spend more on helping where it really bats, so that people can have a better life where they are. The government has now said that they will call for negotiations, and then we can start looking at how to look at these crazy cases, as I think it was expressed here today, which I fully agree with, and we have, I have, a lot of sympathy for the people who come in these situations. I can easily understand how these families feel, both children and adults and others, who are in a situation and say: is this fair? The only thing you have to remember when you're sitting there looking at it and having this sympathy for these people is that if you change the rules, what does that mean? Do you open other gates to some other people you don't have as much sympathy for? And that is where legislation is going to be difficult. Sometimes I say this when people ask in other areas too whether it is not very square: yes, but it is like driving at 50 km/h. When you drive 50 miles an hour. Okay, by the school at 8:00. 14.15, when they're all off, you get a ticket. And people say, "It was ridiculous that you drove too fast." When you do it at 8:00. 2 o'clock in the morning, and there's no human being, you get the same fine. But is that fair? That's because the law is square. So now it says 50 on the sign. That's the way it is. And it's a little bit like that sometimes when we have these rules. Therefore, you can have sympathy for the people you can understand that they are in this situation, but what is the cost of opening up? That is why we would just like to say that when we come to those negotiations, we would like to look at how it can be resolved in relation to people who want to do the right thing and want to contribute to the community and to the crazy cases. But if the price gets too high, then we won't solve it, and then we're also on the target for someone to come and say, "This is a crazy case." Why can't we be allowed? Then you have to explain and say: unfortunately, the legislation is square, and we have to. I'm afraid that's the way it is sometimes. The last case that came up from the rapporteur of the Left is one where one thinks: can it really be right to say that one cannot speak Danish because of some school papers? In any case, we would have liked to have checked that, i.e. whether it really is true that there is no other way to prove that one can speak Danish. I think you can do that in our society. But it's probably a case that's been in the media. All in all, however, we hope that this exercise will not be used to relax foreign policy, because family reunification rules are an important tool for sending a signal, also externally. It is not easy to be brought together in Denmark. This is a signal we would like to send out from the Danish People's Party, also after this review.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208165650	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208165659	Thank you both for the floor and thank you to the Radical Left for calling this important debate, which I know the rapporteur is also extremely enthusiastic about. It is simply impossible for me to make a speech here without again referring to the Foreign Minister's interview in Berlingske here on 16 January, because if there is any place where the Minister's hopes of pursuing a so-called tight but not crazy immigration policy fall short, then it is really here. I imagined, when I was writing my speech, that today's debate would be a cavalcade of anecdotes, for there must be plenty of stories to take from the debate and Mr. Andreas Steenberg has also already been at it. One of those who has affected me most is Lene Kibsgård and her wife, the Russian woman Vlada. The prospect of a happy marriage in Western freedom away from the shadow of homophobia disappeared because nyidanmark.dk did not just specify that the one with its own home meant that you had to pay rent. It wasn't enough to have a stable place to live. And if you want an example of what crazy means, you should look no further than Lasse and Mila: 2200 pages of documentation sent into SIRI, including detailed photo documentation of daily stay in Sweden, supported by complaint and still refusal. It is the stories of people who are denied and simply denied the right to live with the one they love, and these are the worst stories. These are the ones we hear the most about in the media. But what is also there and what we hear less about is all those who may come through the needle's eye, but only after months, perhaps even years of laborious documentation requirements and perhaps even with instructions not to work, as was the case for Camilla's partner John. Often we talk about the key to integration in Denmark being work. I think that John, who was prevented from working because the family reunification process was dragging on, is quite apologetic if he thinks we are a bit hypocritical when we say so. I could, of course, bore the rapporteurs with examples until the next session there is plenty to take off in the media. What's the point? The point is that there are few areas such as marriage that challenge the Minister's ambition to appear tight but not crazy. And that was one of the reasons why SF voted yellow and not for the last time we made an update of the rules for spouse reunification. There were some excellent tactics in that legislation, and there was even a bit of clean-up in some crazy rules; but we simply couldn't tick any more strings while there was still so much collapse in the system. At the same time, the SF understands vividly why the rules in this area exist. It is absolutely crucial for integration that we demand newcomers, including spouses, to integrate and get into work and all that, and I really welcome the indignation that was also on the part of the Prime Minister in that particular area, because it is extremely important. And when we talk in the SF about less crazyness in this area, we are not talking about perfectly reasonable integration requirements, but about all the bureaucratic and incomprehensible barriers and documentation requirements that need to be reviewed. But right must be right. I can see that the Foreign Minister, with this stakeholder group that has been set up, and also on the basis of some tactics in the Prime Minister's speech and the Foreign Minister's interview in Berlingske, seems to be genuinely prepared for a spring clean-up in the rules and that is in my optics really positive. And if there is a broad majority behind this clean-up, so that Danes with foreign spouses can look forward not only to more transparent rules, but also to stability in the area in relation to changing governments, then we are almost at the ideal scenario for Danish consensus democracy. But I shall now see it before I believe it; for now I will be optimistic. I hope that we can achieve this and I think that the result can be particularly good if we also look a little towards the Socialist People's Party. I will conclude by reading out our draft text for adoption. It reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes with satisfaction that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has set up a stakeholder group, which, together with the Danish Parliament's parties, will help to identify how the rules of marriage work in practice. The Danish Parliament meets the result of the service inspection, as the Danish Parliament agrees that it is important that the rules on spouse reunification make clear requirements for integration, but that the rules today have a number of inappropriate things that result in unfair decisions for citizens who want to live together. • 40).
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170214	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Stoklund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170217	Thank you. Sir. Valentin says that Mr. Valentin had expected such a cavalcade of anecdotes or something like that. I just think that sometimes in this debate you may miss some reflection. There are, for example: many both real stories and anecdotes about people getting caught up in these rules because they're tight, and also for example. Mr. Steenberg's book contains a number of examples of people who have come into contact. But I think that some reflection is missing on how many volumes there should have been written by books with examples of people who should have been protected if we had not had these strict rules. For then we could have made a work with immensely many volumes that had been about women who had come here and been treated badly, and where it was difficult for us to address the cultural patterns that some have an interest in trying to inflict on Danish society. I am therefore a little surprised that this reflection is never part of this and that the reason why it is so is that some of our predecessors in different parties have been a little too generous in distributing citizenships, among other things. to people who don't speak Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170325	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170327	There's plenty of reflection on this, too, for SF. After all, I also mention integration requirements in my speech and emphasise that we have no problem with completely fair requirements for integration. In fact, we think it is important that they are there. Because I agree with the rapporteur's concerns if no clear demands are made. I can only say that I think that the balance has been tipped off for the Social Democratic Party, so I think that some of these things have been overtaken by the fact that you are now in a situation where you have some rules and where there are really many people who get stuck. So I think that we should try to review the rules, in which, of course, we maintain that people must integrate, and that there are some essential requirements here. I am fully aware of that, but where you also look at some of the crazies that result in there being people who should be allowed to be with their spouse and who are not allowed to do so. I actually think that is what was proposed by the Minister, so I hope that is the way we can move.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170428	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170430	But now, for example, when you're going to have to do something like this... highlights an example which could be an ethnic Danish man who is up in the years and who can of course see Danish speaking without problems, and uses it and highlights it as that now everyone can see that the rules have gone crazy, so you just forget to tell that the reason why it is so is because for some decades a lot of citizenship was distributed to people who do not speak Danish. And because we are a country that does not discriminate and where everyone has to be treated equally and so on. etc., you sometimes have to turn off common sense, and then we get these crazy situations where we all agree that it's really wrong. But it is to try to protect a greater purpose: cohesion, confidence and integration in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170513	Well, I am actually a little puzzled by some of these objections, because I really think that the whole starting point for the debate has been that the Social Democrats have recognised that there are some errors in the legislation that lie, also following the changes that were in 2018, and that now they have to be corrected. So I hope we can do that together, but I do agree that some of these rules could have been revised in the past and that mistakes have been made in history. And we were also wondering if we should join in 2018, because we actually thought that there were some things that got better. I mean, there should be no doubt about that either. So this is nuanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170546	The next question is Mr. Morten Dahlin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170548	Thank you. I have taken the floor because I think that the SF's rapporteur jewels up a little bit with borrowed feathers. For we are also others, including myself, who have today highlighted some of the examples of where the law has been wrong, but I think that I am actually entitled to do so, because the Left was, in fact, the platter of legislation. In other words, we had seen the power of government and the Prime Minister's Office when they made the legislation and also introduced a large number of demands, to which I also stressed in my speech that the principles behind that agreement were reasonable and clear at that time and must be the same principles when we might arrive at a different outcome after the negotiations. But SF wasn't part of the deal. After all, the SF chose to vote no to a large number of the tightenings that were made then, and so I would like to hear which of the tightenings that were made then, SF now supports, even if they were not supported in 2018. For example, do you support the restrictions imposed on family reunification for ghettos, or do you want to open it up? Do you support the demands of employment and self-sufficiency, or do you want to soften it up? I would like to hear the opinion of the SF rapporteur on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170654	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170656	That was a lot of questions. I must start by saying that it is not true that we voted against. In fact, we ended up voting yellow because we had so much doubt in this matter because we thought that updating the rules was important. We thought it important to have these different integration requirements, which lie in the legislation, and the then rapporteur for the SF, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen then considered that there were still some theses in the legislation that we simply could not see ourselves in. That was among other things. This limit of DKK 100,000, which, when you're a socialist, is very difficult to eat, because it's about hitting some of the people who have the very least money in our society. So we are fully involved in engaging in a dialogue with regard to integration requirements, etc., but we have not wanted to sign a policy which contained some elements with which we had such difficulty.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170745	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170747	It was an answer from the SF rapporteur, it was just not an answer to the question. Does SF think that some sensible tightenings were made in relation to family reunification to ghetto areas? I asked that question before and unfortunately did not get an answer; now I'm trying again. Does SF believe that it is sensible to make demands on employment in the way they chose to do so in 2018? These are two very specific questions to which I would like to hear the answers from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170813	In relation to ghetto areas, I remember that among other things. made a tightening-up that was about where one lives, in relation to the possibilities of marriage, and we were quite critical of that. In relation to work I think we had arranged it in a slightly different way, but we generally think it is fair enough to demand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170838	The next brief remark is to Mr. Andreas Steenberg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170841	I was also a little curious about what SF's position on this is, because it was very clear that it was not socialist policy to demand that you have to provide security for DKK 100,000, but when we look at these integration requirements, it is true that you should not be unskilled, that the foreign spouse should also preferably have a higher education, and that you should also have worked full time in Denmark for 5 years; you should not have worked part-time, such as for example. Many nurses do. So is it socialist policy that unskilled and part-time workers cannot have family reunification?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208170928	I think it is complicated because when you take out the individual requirements, there may well be some problems with them. After all, the legislation has been designed in such a way that there are a number of points on which we have to live up to some to get in and not all of them. And I think it is important, among other things, that people expect them to take up a job, that they speak Danish, etc. when they come here. These are some of the things that would be central to us. We would very much like to be involved in a major review of this legislation and look at it again, but I do not think that is realistic in relation to what is being proposed here by the government. I believe that we are going to look at some of the smaller things where we can turn on something so that we have fewer problematic cases. That is probably most of the work that I expect we can be a part of now, and I hope we can do that, because I think there have been many issues that have been very problematic, as the rapporteur himself has pointed out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171022	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171023	I still think it's a little hovering what SF wants. It is true that four out of six so-called integration requirements must be met, in addition to being a national or complying with the rules on permanent residence. And the demands mean that a part-time nurse who has been married to an unskilled from outside the EU cannot have family reunification. Is this part of socialism, if I may say so, that part-time nurses with unskilled spouses cannot have family reunification?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171058	No, I think that in isolation is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171103	Then we thank the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171113	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Radical Left for having called this debate, which is, of course, about just one set of the many unfair rules we have in the field of foreigners. I had actually planned that I would start by saying all sorts of things that I think are in the way of the government's immigration policy, but I think this debate deserves us to keep our mouths shut and talk about what it is actually about. For I am of the opinion that a great many Danes who are in love with a foreign citizen experience that their everyday life and their love lives are taken hostage in the Danish foreign debate. That's why I'm gonna drop my introduction. It is the case that in Denmark we have many crazy rules in the field of foreigners, but I would actually say that the rules on family reunification are close to being the very craziest. If you as a Dane fall in love with someone from abroad and want to live with the person you are in love with, you have two options. One option is to leave Denmark and settle in another country. Unfortunately, I think that this is an opportunity that far too many people are taking advantage of. But in a way, I understand, because option number 2 is close to being unrealistic and is unfairly hard for many people to go through. Option number 2 is that you move to Denmark and try to live up to the many conditions and rules we have set up. And now some examples have been mentioned in the course of the debate, but we do not have just the handful of examples to build this debate on; we have many examples of our rules being distorted. Allow me to give you an example: I do not remember what number we are up to, but let us say that is the fifth example. A young Danish woman lives in a socially exposed residential area. She falls in love and marries a man from Mexico. The man is unskilled because he has worked in the Mexican hotel industry, which requires no training. It is difficult for them to be brought together, even if they are married, and even though she is a Danish citizen, it is only because of where she lives and because of his education. In fact, I think that is quite unreasonable. When we look at the demands we have set out in the family reunification rules, you are tempted to say: If you have money, you can get, but if you have none, then you can go. I mean, you're gonna have to put a bank guarantee on a lot of money to live up to one of the demands. And I want your place to be in order, too. And I find it almost as if the general housing sector that we have as our common housing market, our common foundation to stand on in Denmark, is no longer fine enough to live in if you want a spouse to Denmark. Because if the place where you live is a socially exposed residential area, you can't have family reunification. I think this is a signal that ordinary tenants in this country do not deserve love if it happens to be the case that they have fallen in love with a person from another country. Then there are the economic requirements, which I have also mentioned and which we have also mentioned in the debate here. I think these too are totally unreasonable. If you, for example, has been so unlucky to lose your job, for example. while we have had the corona crisis, where there are some people who have not been able to go to work or if you have been unemployed for a short period and so, for example. has chosen to take an education which I think is a wise thing to do, if you are unemployed then you have to wait 21⁄2 years before you can again apply for your spouse to come here, while at the same time trying to scrape money together for the bank guarantee. You can't do that if you, for example. is on su. So it's almost unthinkable that this can be done unless you're very rich or know someone who is. And I think that is an expression of a very, very great inequality, including in our family reunification rules. Now I don't have much time left, so in the end I just want to say to the Prime Minister, who previously called for demonstrations at the Palace Square, that on September 10, 2021 the Sisters Association held a demonstration right out here at the Palace Square. I was there, and I hope the Prime Minister comes next time. But to get back on track: the Enhedslisten can support the adoption text which Mr. Andreas Steenberg read earlier. Moreover, I think we owe it to this debate to talk about it as it is about, namely that there are some people who cannot be allowed to be with the person they love. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171618	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171621	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I can tell you that I myself have also been in contact with the organisation concerned, although I did not participate in the demonstration myself. It is probably also a bit after political temperament whether you participate in dialogue meetings or in demonstrations. I would like to ask Enhedslisten a fundamental question: Does Enhedslisten believe that it is fair to make demands on employment for people who want family reunification to Denmark. I could also basically ask whether the rapporteur and Enhedslisten believe that it is fair to make demands on education, and therefore the rapporteur and thus the Enhedslisten believe that it is fair to make demands on such things as crime. I'd like to ask Enhedslisten about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171711	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171712	First of all, I can easily teach Mr. Morten Dahlin to go to demonstrations. Secondly, to answer the question, Mr President. Morten Dahlin, say that I think that one of the most important things to demand is the Danish language. Because I believe that the Danish language is the way into our education system and the way into the Danish labour market. That is why I think it is quite reasonable, and that is why I am very pleased that we, the present majority in this House, have made Danish education free of charge. I can actually see that there are more who come here who choose to start learning Danish. So I actually think language requirements are important. It wasn't anything in mr. Morten Dahlin's listing, but it's important for Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171757	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171800	Thank you. And that was precisely not one of the things I asked, because I know that Enhedslisten is in favour of making language demands. Moreover, it has not been done free of charge that other Danish taxpayers have been ordered to pay for it, but it is a different talk. I asked very specifically about demands about employment, about education, about crime. Does Enhedslisten basically believe that it is fair to make demands on those who want family reunification to Denmark that they are in employment and support themselves and thus also have the opportunity to support their families?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171832	In fact, basically, I do not think that is fair, no. I don't think so, sir. Morten Dahlin. I think it might be very sensible to send a signal that it is a good thing to be in employment, and I also think it is a good thing to have an education. But I don't think that from in here we should run retail, how it should be in a relationship, that is, that we should demand that if you are in love, married to someone from abroad, they should have it and that education or that and that work. I simply do not think that is fair, and I also believe that it creates a kind of unhealthy hierarchy, just like Mr. Andreas Steenberg mentioned earlier about unskilled part-time workers. I think it's unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171911	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208171927	Thank you, sir. President. First of all, I would like to thank the Radical Left for calling this debate. I believe that the rules for family reunification are something that affects all of us in this Chamber. I know that we are all getting a great deal of cross-party inquiries, and I know that this is a subject that concerns Mr Tugendhat. Andreas Steenberg in particular personally. And thank you for the book; I have it standing in my office, and after today I will look into it even more, since there are also a great many positive kicks, despite the fact that we have different political views. We all know the many unfortunate things from the media: the Dane who has worked abroad and cannot bring his or her spouse back, or the Dane who finds love abroad and cannot get the spouse here because you cannot find his or her 9th-class certificate from many years back. But we also need to remember why the rules are the way they are. There was, after all, a judgment in the European Union which, among other things, was passed. This is why we had to invent new rules completely, from scratch, and when you do, there will also be some imbalances, because, as I also asked the Prime Minister, we will prevent mass family reunifications to parallel societies in Denmark from countries where we know that integration typically goes wrong, while ordinary Danes will of course continue to be able to pick up their spouse from abroad. The rules we have today are quite new, as I have said, which is why there have been crooked, stupid examples, and that is why we ourselves, on the Conservative side, had a motion for a resolution on the Minister calling for a service check. That is what we drew when the Minister himself called for the negotiations. We would like to thank the Social Democrats for this. So I do not really want to go into exactly what the rules need to be adjusted, because this is the process we are in the middle of now. But the starting point must of course be, as I said before, that ordinary Danes must be able to bring their spouses here from abroad without opening up a mass immigration from countries where we have historically seen disastrously poor integration. With these words, we can support the text of the adoption together with the Social Democracy, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the New Citizen, as I understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208172139	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208172152	We must take care of Denmark. We need to put up a safeguard against the values on which our society is based; a protection that, among other things, is a protection. means that we must ensure that the foreigners who come to Denmark respect our values, support themselves and comply with our legislation. We should and must take a stand against decades of failed immigration policy. Migration from Muslim countries must be stopped. A stop must be put to spontaneous asylum and foreigners must be required to support themselves, and foreigners in Denmark must, of course, comply with our legislation. The rules for family reunification for people from the MEAPT countries should under no circumstances be relaxed, on the contrary. But it has never been the intention of the rules of family reunification that a Dane who travels out into the world to work and who then wants to return to Denmark to live in his homeland with the love of his life, whom he or she has met from a culture compatible with the Danish, should be treated as a foreigner in his own country to and with treatment worse than a refugee or a migrant who has never had any relationship with Denmark, the Danish people and the Danish community of values. We welcome the fact that the Minister has initiated work to uncover whether and, if so, how the Danes with historical roots in Denmark, who are being pushed out of their own country today, can get their rights back without compromising the protection that has been set against migration from the Muslim countries. Against this background, I can say that we support the joint text adopted by the Social Democrats, the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208172343	Thank you to the rapporteur for the new citizens. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Sikandar Siddique from the Free Greens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208172354	Thank you for the floor, President. I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Radicals for calling this debate. Thank you to the Prime Minister, thank you to the Minister for Integration and thank you to all the parties in here who have come to the realization that we actually need a review of these rules. Free Greens are very pleased about this. We see it as a positive sign, and we look forward to relaxing these rules. When I listen to the debate, I cannot help thinking about something that I also think both the Prime Minister and the Socialist rapporteur have expressed, I think it was to the SF's rapporteur that when we talk about relaxing the rules, some of the people we need to help get into trouble. Because it was said that we now had such a relaxing policy on foreigners that, as a rapporteur, it was formulated generously just giving citizenship, we may have reached that point today, where the rules have been completely closed and made so unusually tight that they now affect too many people and take away their personal freedom from them the right to love and the right to live with them. In the Greens, we believe that this is where we have come. If it were up to us, we would remove the 24-year rule and the bank guarantee, because we basically believe that love is a human right. And if it were for the Free Greens, we would have liked to have legislation that allowed us, where negative social control is exercised, to strike down hard-made tailor-made. And then we make sure that everyone else can exercise their human right, that is, love, the right to decide for themselves who you want to live with. Many times, when you listen to the debate, you get the impression that family reunification rules mean that very, very many people from the Middle East and from Pakistan, Turkey and Somalia flock to Denmark and then they are rejected. But the truth is that the vast majority of refusals that are being made are to citizens from countries such as Brazil, Thailand, Great Britain and the United States. But when you hear what is being said in the debate, you get the impression that if we relax these rules, then people just storm here; then people just come here, and then they break the cohesion force. I hope and believe that all the many members of parliament who are in here can easily find a way of making legislation that will enable us to put in place where we have to take action; that we make sure that we help these women, as the Prime Minister has said several times today. Free Greens would like to be involved; we would really like to be involved so that we are tailor-made and helping them, but in a way that thousands and thousands of citizens do not get caught. Let us get some sense into politics. Let us get some sense into the debate. And in those words, thank you. And then, on behalf of the Green Group, I would like to read out a text of adoption that the President has received: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the current family reunification rules are unfair and inappropriately destroying families. The Folketing instructs the government to relax the rules for family reunification by abolishing the 24-year rule and other inappropriate laws so that families can live together in Denmark. • V 41).
ParlaMint-DK_20220208172801	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Free Greens. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208172810	Thank you. A rock rolls down from the mountains. Sisyphus pushes it up. A rock rolls down from the mountains, and Sisyphus rolls it up. Sisyphus sings, a rock flies up over the mountains. So wrote Inger Christensen in one of his very famous poems from the collection of poems. As you know, Sisyphus was in Greek mythology the king of Corinth, son of Aiolos and Enarete, and he cheated death by chaining the death god Thanatos so that no one could die any more. But one cannot, and one should not, cheat the gods, and therefore he was punished, and forever Sisyphus must therefore roll up a stone greater than himself on a mountain. And every time the stone gets to the top, we know it's gonna roll away from him, and he's gonna have to start over. This myth could be the myth of us sitting in here cheating love and therefore constantly rolling up stones. But it could also be the myth of all those who are cheated in the name of love and are oppressed. These are the people the Prime Minister spoke so warmly and indignantly about. For they may be mostly affected by the eternal punishment. But then it is that Inger Christensen comes and rescues us, for she tells us Sisyphus sings that a stone flies up the mountains. And it must be our job to try to get some of the stones to fly up over the mountains, so that as few as possible must be punished by the circumstances attributed to the rules and that the fewest possible must experience the oppression that a lot of women are subjected to. What am I gonna say with that? I would just like to say that we are not making any proposal for adoption, because we simply do not have the solution to how we are going to deal with this so that it meets all the needs that we know to be there and that we all want to meet when we remove the straws from the debate. That is why I look forward to having a good negotiating basis for discussing the rules in the future, so that we can make the best of it and get as many stones as possible to fly up over the mountains. For that is what the people we are talking about here deserve, no matter what situation they may find themselves in. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208173041	Thank you. And there is a brief comment. Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208173044	It was a very nuanced speech which I do not think is entirely in line with what I have seen Christian Democrats say on social media before. Because it gives the impression, also by Isabella Arendt, that these rules need to be changed and that family reunification must be a right. And I think that's a little different than that, sir. Jens Rohde just stood there and said. Can it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208173111	No, for that was also the basic view: that one should not cheat love. But the best must never be the worst enemy of the good. And we have to recognise and know that the rules are not created for fun. And that is why I would like to go beyond the debate which I find often marked by these discussions. I mean, I myself was involved in making family reunification rules and affiliations and so on. And for some it was about one agenda, and for others it was about another agenda. In my world picture it has always been to protect against, for example. forced marriages. And we still have to be able to do that. I guess so, sir. Andreas Steenberg also agrees. So I am happy to take the starting point of the right. But we certainly also need to understand that there are some considerations on the other side that we need to take and that we cannot just ignore. And that is what lies in the dualism that I am trying to illustrate in my speech here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208173216	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. Then we are through the rapporteur's line, and then it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208173241	Thank you. I went to a family lunch a while ago, and there was a person present who made a new balcony. The neighbor has complained a little over, and therefore the municipality has been out measuring whether the balcony is now running too far from the house in relation to what had been granted the building permit. And it did... four inches. And my acquaintance says, "Well, four inches." Surely we can live with it. There's gotta be some sort of arrangement. Can't I pay a fine? But the administration says no. So now my acquaintance will break up the facade, unmount two kitchen cabinets, break up a new kitchen floor, unbolt a balcony, move it 4 cm. in, bolt it firmly, new kitchen floor, new kitchen cabinets and fix the facade for 4 cm. ! For such are the rules, they cannot be bent, they are equal for all, and a building permit has been granted, and there is someone who has violated the building permit. This case never ends in the Ekstrabladet, for after all, it is only about a balcony. But many of the matters we discuss end up in the Ekstra Bladet because they are about real people and really important decisions for their lives: Where can they live with their family? And it is a condition in the field of foreigners that it is some much more present cases than whether people should move their balcony or not. Last year, the immigration authorities made 82,000 decisions on residence permits • 82,000! The 75,000 actually ended up with a permit. The 7,000 ended up with a refusal. And I'm saying this because we never go anywhere where there can be no concrete case in the paper, where we take our heads and think: Why should that balcony be moved 4 cm. in, or why is the person we have read about in the newspaper not allowed to obtain a residence permit in Denmark? We'll never get there. That is why it is of no use that every time we read about a case that is a little difficult, we immediately go to the penal house and start to change the law on foreigners. Because then we'll never be done. On the other hand, we should not become so stupid that when we see a pattern, we are not able to adjust the legislation we have adopted. And that is my responsibility as Minister, but I also think it is the responsibility of all the Foreign Affairs rapporteurs to constantly consider: is this the exception that confirms the rule, or is this a sign that we have what I call crazy regulations that need to be changed? That is why I believe there is a need to have a service review and a thorough analysis of why people are refused and then we can have a proper, qualified discussion with each other. SF said from the platform that stability is an ideal scenario. I very much agree with that. I look at the law on foreigners, just as I look at the law on primary schools: it should not be amended by 90 seats every time there has been a parliamentary election. It is hundreds of thousands of children, hundreds of thousands of Danish families depend on us having stability and tranquillity around primary school. It is a huge workplace in Danish society, and therefore I also think it is essential that the parties who bear the responsibility from the mayor's offices around the primary school also find each other every day when we discuss changes to the primary school law. I have the same way with security policy. Nor should it swing back and forth every time there has been a parliamentary election. It is essential that it is anchored across the middle and that foreigners can trust Denmark, our nato membership and our alliance with other Western countries. It is also not suitable to be negotiated by a narrow majority in the Chamber. I believe that the law on foreigners is just as important to Danish society, and that is why we have said before the elections, and we would like to maintain that the immigration policy must be anchored across the middle. That doesn't mean that any parties aren't living rooms. We are happy to negotiate with everyone, and I would like to emphasise that. This does not mean that anyone has a right of veto. But that means that it is a clear ambition for the government to anchor immigration policy across the middle. For as Mr. Carl Valentin said: Stability is an ideal scenario. By the way, I agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party when he tells about the driver, who drives a little too fast past school and gets a ticket, whether it is night or day. It is also the reality in the field of foreigners that we must, of course, be able to hold that individual cases are in the newspaper. But we, as politicians, also have a responsibility to remember all the cases that are not in the paper. And there is no provision in the immigration legislation that has been introduced just to bother people. It just doesn't. We may disagree on the reasons why they have been introduced, but all rules have a reason. Now I live in Albertslund Municipality. There was an example some decades ago of many family reunifications to the same non-profit residential area in Albertslund. Young people were brought together with foreigners from, for example, Turkey or Pakistan. They moved into the same large apartments, and once the foreign spouse had moved in, approached the municipality and said: We are a young married couple living with our parents • we would like to have our own apartment. Fortunately, we have housing legislation in Denmark which means that if you are a young married couple, perhaps even with a small child, you can get ahead of the home queue and get a non-profit home. However, this meant that many of those who had been waiting for years for non-profit housing were constantly pushed down the waiting list because new married couples with a foreigner who had been brought together were constantly standing in front of the queue. Therefore, after a few years, a rule was introduced that one should have one's own home. Then we can discuss how big it should be and what we understand by an appropriate and suitable accommodation. But the fact that you have to have a home, if you are married to a person from abroad, I think that is quite, quite reasonable. And we shall not change that because there has been a single case; we shall change it if there is a pattern of crazy cases, but not because there has been a single case. As I said, the stakeholder group will meet tomorrow at its first meeting. And it is precisely important for me to stress that this is not a commission that will sit in a circle for a year and make a dike's report. We need a fairly fast course here over the spring, where the people who work with section 9 of the Aliens Act on a daily basis are given the opportunity to say how they experience it working. Some will certainly propose changes. I think that we can prepare ourselves for amendments which cannot bring together a majority in this Chamber, and that is an honest matter. Many of these organisations have just been selected because they are active consultative parties and know how the legislation works. And I think we should go to the open and open, and I very much agree with that, sir. Morten Dahlin says that the principles of what was the 2018 reform should be maintained. What we should be looking for is whether or not we are going to hit the intention we had. And the concrete example of Bent from a town outside Auning is an example that I think many of us are interested in solving. One last thing I want to say is that if you look at integration statistics now, then things are moving forward: crime is falling, even quite significantly; more young people are getting an education; employment is increasing; there are significantly fewer residential areas on the list of vulnerable residential areas and what was previously called ghetto areas. In this sense, things are really moving forward, and much of it is, of course, about the people who have come here becoming more of a part of Danish society. It's only good and positive. I also believe that one of the reasons is that the influx to Denmark has been relatively calm for some years. It is all else equally easier for a municipality to integrate the children who have already arrived, unless new children are constantly coming to school to be integrated. And it is all else equally easier to get new families to become part of Danish society if they do not constantly get a foreigner who does not speak Danish, as a neighbour, and therefore there is a connection between influx and integration. It is also important to keep in mind when we discuss these rules that we have an interest in getting our foreign spouse to Denmark. We're a small, open economy. We only have an interest in Danes going out into the world and working for Danish companies or studying and coming home with knowledge, curiosity and perspectives that we could not have in Danish society. And some also come with a foreign spouse, which is an honest matter, and there must be an opportunity to live in Denmark. We just have to make sure that this happens in a way where they are also able to become part of Danish society and where there are not so many that we have integration challenges. I am reasonably confident that we can find that balance, and I hope that we can meet and have the first political discussions with each other later this six-month period, and that we can agree on some adjustments to the existing rules across the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174228	There is a brief comment. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174231	Thank you, Minister. The main argument of both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has been that we should help these women, and we all agree that we should. We need to help these women. But then something hit me here in the end. We have talked about it over and over again today, but how many women are involved? Do we know that? Of course there are some dark figures, but do we have any idea how many women this is about? I hope that the Minister will not reply: when we visit the shelters, many of the women there are women with a foreign background. Well, do we have any evidence? Is there any data, so we have something, what can you say, to continue working on and on? That's one thing. Because that's a supporting argument. The second point is: does the Minister have any idea how many thousands and thousands of citizens should not be affected by these rules? Do we have any numbers, so we have something we can work with?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174336	In other words, who should be affected by the rules, it is not certain that the Free Greens and the Social Democrats will agree on that. However, I think that the rapporteur points out something relevant, namely that it is sometimes difficult to find safe research evidence of causality in politics. We can see that after the 24-year rule has been established, several young women from immigrant families are being educated. We can see that marriage is postponed, that is, the average age of marriage is postponed and also how late it is for people to have children. Whether it can be linked specifically to the 24-year rule and the attachment requirement, be careful not to be 110%. I am sure, but one can at least see that there is a connection, and I think we should be interested in that. More young women are being educated, more young women are getting married later, and more young women have children later, and everything else just as we know that education is at least the prerequisite for easier integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174439	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174441	So we base a whole discussion on sensations and feelings. There's no evidence, there's no data, there's nothing like supporting this. I find that problematic, which is also my point in saying it. It might well be that more and more people are receiving education because it is the second and third generation now that we used to talk about the first generation. There may also be a time perspective in it. That is also why I take the example that the vast majority of those who are denied are from Thailand, from the United States or from Britain and not from the Middle East, as they say in here. I would just like to appeal to us to get some sense into the debate. Let us get some evidence and some data into the debate and then let us fight the challenges that are and let us make sure that people are not affected by these crazy rules. That's kind of the point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174529	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174532	Well, I'm only in favour of there being evidence in the debate, but it's not like it's just gut feeling. In other words, if you say that people who are being married to Denmark cannot go down to the municipality and raise cash benefits, that means that they cannot go down to the municipality and get cash benefits. Then that means they're not being supported by the neighbor, as Mr. Morten Dahlin said. If you decide that there should be a suitable accommodation, then that means that people cannot move into their parents' homes and then go down to the municipality and skip the home queue. The requirements laid down in the Aliens Act are, after all, material requirements which must be met as a starting point. It has, of course, been of practical significance and has, I think, created more social justice than there was before.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174617	Thank you. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174618	It should be remembered that, from the point of view of those who have a spouse expelled, their family life is ruined. And then you hear the debate here today and hear the country's Foreign Minister and Prime Minister stand and say that yes, yes, but it is a simple matter, and that you have to remember the broad picture of all this social control and forced marriage that you avoid. When you look at the figures, the biggest refusal countries are Britain, Thailand, the Philippines, Brazil, the United States and so other countries you don't know what is because there are too few. These are the major refusal countries. Then it probably has nothing to do with forced marriage, it's highly unlikely. Then the Minister can say here today how many of the refusals were made, for example. Last year given because of forced marriages? How many?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174717	If there is any doubt as to whether the marriage has been concluded voluntarily, then it is for that reason alone that a refusal can be made. When we are interested in a service inspection being carried out and that an analysis of the refusals is part of that service inspection, it is among other things. in order to examine the approximately two thousand people who were refused marriage union last year, i.e. their characteristics. I do not wish to deny in advance that there may be a need to adjust anything. At any rate, I can see that the mandatory Danish requirement for the resident in some of the cases that have been in the media has been of importance, also in a way in which I cannot defend myself how the legislation is lumped together. What this will mean for the mandatory Danish requirement, I think, is too early to say. I am particularly interested in finding out about the two thousand refusals that have been granted. How many of them are there, for example. According to the mandatory Danish requirement, how many have been given on the basis of the self-reliance requirement; how many have been given on the basis of some of the conditions attached to compliance with the permanent residence rules? I have my doubts about that, but I hope to learn more about it in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174825	Thank you. Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174827	The minister can't answer. The whole argument put forward by the government is that people now have to understand that we have to accept some individual cases, because this is, of course, about the big picture and about avoiding forced marriages. But you have no idea how many forced marriages you've prevented by these rules. You have no idea. People sit and get their lives ruined and their opportunity to live in Denmark because of an argument for which there is no evidence. That's fucked up. So I'm just gonna give the Minister another chance. How many last year were denied because of forced marriage?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174907	However, it is the radical rapporteur who reduces the government's arguments to forced marriages. It's just one of many relationships. Today, when you cannot be brought together into the Mjølner Park, it does not necessarily have anything to do with forced marriage. Then it has something to do with combating marriage reunification into an area where there are already plenty of integration challenges. When you have a requirement for security, it is to ensure that the municipalities, if people use their constitutional right to go down on the municipality and demand cash assistance, even if they are not entitled to it in the Aliens Act, have the opportunity to withdraw the security. In other words, there are many different arguments for the different conditions that are built into the Aliens Act. It is true that one of the arguments for introducing the 24-year rule was to avoid forced marriages. So it is just one of many different considerations that one wants to pursue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208174958	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208175000	Thank you to the Minister for a good debate. I just have two specific questions for the Minister. Firstly, which parties does the Minister intend to convene when the working party has been reported? Secondly, is it the Minister's ambition that the possible change to be made by the rules be made by a broad majority of the parties of the Folketing? Asked in another way: could the Minister envisage an agreement to amend the rules on family reunification only with the supporting parties, thereby excluding the blue parties that were included in the original agreement, or other blue parties that have a desire to be included in a future agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208175047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208175048	Thank you. As I also said in my final reply, I generally see this in the way of foreign policy: paragraph 1, all the living rooms are - that is to say, we are negotiating with everyone. Paragraph 2, no one has a right of veto. And then there is a clear statement from the government that we have an ambition that political agreements should be concluded over the middle to ensure stability in the area of foreigners, particularly about the pillars of foreign policy, and, for us, these are the rules on citizenship, permanent residence, asylum and family reunification. This is also the approach we want to take to these discussions. We will, of course, present the recommendations or contributions of the stakeholder group to all parties of the Folketing. The government will reflect on what we think is needed by adjustments, and those parties who can see themselves in a similar way, in other words in the direction we are presenting, are naturally welcome to enter into a debate. I find it hard to see that the government with the Enhedslisten, SF and Radicals alone will have to change the rules. We want an ambition that it also extends across the middle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208175155	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208175159	Thank you. I don't think it's a secret... and maybe I can just disappoint Mr. Knox. Morten Dahlin with that Enhedslisten will support any relaxation of these rules, and that is what I hear from the Minister, at least in some areas. Well, what I really want to ask the Minister concerns the figures that we are all interested in avoiding forced marriages, as Mr. Andreas Steenberg and Mr. Sikandar Siddique is asking for what we all really want; and as I think it would be beneficial for the government to have, precisely in order to solve that problem. So what will the Minister do to obtain the documentation that we all so clearly lack?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208175237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208175238	I think I will start by saying that it can quickly turn into shadow boxing if you have the expectation that precise figures can be given over to who has not sought family reunification as a result of some provisions of the Aliens Act. We can see, of course, that before the great tightening up there in 2002, significantly more residence permits were granted than were granted after the large tightening-up in 2002. It can also be seen that the introduction of the 24-year rule has, of course, had an impact on the average age of the spouses. And it can be seen that the tightening up in 2002 has led to significant changes in the composition of nationality. Similarly, there have been some changes in 2018, and now 3-4 years have passed, and some of what I look forward to putting forward is what the statistical shifts really are. One of the things I can see for myself, if you look today at who gets a marriage permit, is that Thailand, the Philippines and the United States are at the top. The fact that a country such as Turkey is still at the top ten is not necessarily a problem, but what the figures would have been like if the changes had not been made, one cannot put one's head on the block and say what the figures would have been like.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208175403	It's Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208175405	However, I think that the Minister could ask around in his ministry if it was not possible to get just one or other basis for figures. Then we all know that it will be flawed, that there will be dark figures in it, but I just think that it has been clear in today's debate that there is a problem of forced marriages that we are all interested in resolving, but where we lack a data base for it and where we have now made some rules that make a lot of other families squeeze. And that's why I'm just asking the Minister: shouldn't we try a little bit more to get some data in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208175442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208175443	In fact, I know that, as far as I remember, there are some independent institutions that have conducted studies on marriages in immigrant communities in Denmark. But we should also bear in mind that when we say forced marriages, we imagine that a young person under wild protests will marry a distant relative in Pakistan, but often it is more in a grey area. After all, it is arranged marriages where the young person does not feel that she has the opportunity to say no, because it may be a commodity to give a residence permit to a foreign spouse. Therefore, making a 24-year rule alone, where young people get a little older and can raise their back a little more and maybe also financially a little more secure and personally a little more secure than you are at the age of 18, can help reduce the proportion of these arranged marriages. It is difficult to measure up to, but what we can just see is that more women get an education, that they get married later, and that basically it goes forward with integration. I cannot point to one rule in terms of research and say that it is because of it, but I can say that there is some connection here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208175549	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and since no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As I have said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 10 February 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208175608	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208175629	Thank you for that, President. With the motion for a resolution here, the authors of the motion for a resolution want to require the government to put forward a legislative proposal which would allow the most vulnerable citizens with drug abuse to obtain an ID card which would exempt them from sanctions such as fines and confiscating drugs for their own consumption. The government agrees that the most vulnerable citizens with drug abuse must be given appropriate help and that they must also meet with respect and understanding of their situation. These are people who often have many years of abuse and homelessness behind them and which the established aid system may find difficult to reach and which, moreover, that system also sometimes takes place and also more often than it is nice to think of has failed. It makes sense, therefore, to make special efforts towards this group of people, and the initiative in the government's understanding paper on an ID card is precisely an expression of that intention. The government has therefore also carefully examined whether ID cards with the legal effects laid down in the motion for a resolution could be a tool that could help improve the lives of the most vulnerable citizens with drug abuse. However, this has not proved to be quite so straightforward, as there are some significant challenges to it. So there are some challenges in introducing the proposed ID card without further ado. That is a view which, among other things, is: is based on an assessment by the National Police, but also on input from user organisations on the streets around these very vulnerable citizens. Basically, it is a matter of excluding persons holding an ID card, for example. Confiscation, according to the National Police, poses a risk that backers in the drug community will use vulnerable citizens to store drugs for them. That is why the proposal can also make it difficult for the police to combat crime against the perpetrators of the drugs community and to oppose the preventive efforts of the authorities, which focus on preventing particularly vulnerable people from being exploited as part of the criminal activity of others. On top of that, a system in which the police are not able to seize drugs from vulnerable citizens may make it difficult for the prosecution to provide evidence in criminal proceedings where a sale of drugs has been observed to a person with an ID card. In other words, the proposal could come up with a significant price, not least in relation to the vulnerable citizens themselves, which it would risk making even more vulnerable. I don't think any of us have an interest in that. At the same time, of course, it also makes an impression when, on the basis of their in-depth knowledge of the target audience, players in the field raise some challenges in the proposed ID card. As you know, in connection with the motion for a resolution, the Jurists of the Stone Bridge have submitted a request pointing out that an ID card may impose an administrative burden on already exposed citizens, and there may be practical challenges to the ongoing change of the drug and social conditions of vulnerable citizens. I think we should listen to such concerns so that we do not end up doing the people we want to help a disservice in the old sense of the word. Does this mean that no particular effort can be made for the target group? Definitely not. The government is very concerned about how we can ensure better conditions and more accessible help to the target group, with an understanding of the special conditions and failures they often have in their luggage. The government is therefore also keen to continue to examine the possibility of introducing an ID card of some form or other solution that can enhance the same function, further. The premiss just needs to be clear: the most vulnerable citizens with drug abuse must be protected against penalties in the form of fines and confiscation of drugs for their own consumption, as the current law already prescribes, and at the same time we must address the risk of vulnerable citizens becoming vulnerable to exploitation or otherwise deteriorating their conditions. In that work, I think it is central that among other things. user organisations in this area are being involved so that we ensure that the measures really improve the conditions for the most vulnerable citizens and they are not mostly a bureaucratic difficulty. For me, the answer from Stenbroens Jurister is an expression of the need to examine this question more closely. In a further investigation, it is also crucial that the National Police continue to be involved. At the same time, I am pleased that, together with almost all of the parties in the Danish Parliament with the reserve agreement of November last year, we have just allocated funds to strengthen our efforts to the most vulnerable citizens with drug abuse. For this target group, it may be a barrier to treatment to have to approach and also regularly attend a treatment offer. Therefore, in order to make drug abuse treatment more accessible, there are, among other things: funding to enable a number of municipalities and local civil society actors to adapt and implement an already tested model of outreach in a binding partnership. The model is intended to support the visibility and accessibility of outgoing employees in environments where the most vulnerable citizens with drug abuse move, so that efforts can be made so that those people who so much need it also receive the help and support they need, based on their wishes and where they are. At the same time, funding is provided for municipalities, in cooperation with civil society actors, to test and gain experience with advanced drug abuse treatment so that the most vulnerable citizens can receive rapid and accessible treatment where they are staying, for example. in places or shelters. I very much look forward to following the results of this effort, which we have chosen to give priority to today in virtually all the parties in this Chamber. As far as police action against vulnerable citizens with drug abuse is concerned, it is already possible for the police to take special account of a person charged with possession of drugs for their own consumption. In concrete terms, a warning must be given rather than a fine, the social considerations of which are in favour of it and the possession of the substance are also the result of a strong dependence on a longer and persistent abuse. I understand from my colleague, the Minister for Justice, that since the paper of understanding, steps have been taken to ensure the necessary knowledge of the rules of the police and that this is something that will also be highlighted in the future. The Ministry of Justice has stated that the Attorney General has clarified the section of the Public Prosecutor's Notice on Drugs in December 2020, so it now appears that, in addition to efforts to ensure knowledge of the existing rules of the police, the latest reserve agreement also provided funds for the Gadejurist to increase knowledge of the rules of the target group itself so that they are aware of their rights. At the same time, support was given to Stenbroens Jurister, who provides legal aid at street level for the most vulnerable and vulnerable citizens. The government therefore shares the ambition of the proposers to strengthen the situation of the most vulnerable citizens with drug abuse. Nevertheless, the government cannot support the proposal to introduce an ID card for vulnerable citizens with drug abuse as it stands here. Such an ID card is assessed in the light of the challenges posed by, inter alia: The National Police and Stenbroen's lawyers have raised that they can bring significant disadvantages, not least for the vulnerable citizens themselves, who are, of course, the ones that we experience I'm all preoccupied with shielding the best possible. However, we on the part of the government are keen on a further discussion of the possibility of an ID card of some form or other similar solution which can ensure that the most vulnerable citizens with drug abuse are not sanctioned by fines and confiscation of drugs for their own consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208180449	Thank you. There are some brief comments, and first of all it is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208180452	Thank you. I really wanted to discuss this proposal with the Minister for Justice and not with the Minister for Social Affairs, and that is actually because the Ministry of Justice and especially the police have the key to a solution in this area. Now we have a system where you can get a warning if you are a drug user, and it is actually the law that you should not be fined or punished in any way. However, what the police themselves answer when I ask about it is that we do not have the necessary knowledge socially or healthally needed in order to be able to issue a warning. Ergo, we have a system that can't be used for anything. I think you should fix that. However, could the Minister not see the advantage of having an ID card which can speed up procedures and save some time for the police, but also ensure that the individual is actually given a warning more quickly and that he then has the system, which is then supplemented by the warning system, which I also think we should do something to repair?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208180604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208180604-2	Well, I guess we all do, and now I'm not gonna talk for everyone, but then on my own behalf and say that you can see the point of an ID like that. That is also why we have been circling that grip ourselves as a possible grip, but I also believe that we will just have to listen and give it weight, not least when some of the organisations closest to these citizens turn on the warning lights and raise some flags of concern. I think, then, that the issue raised here by the SF rapporteur is therefore sufficiently close to the target group to actually be able to use the opportunities and action that we need in the case today with the legislation in force. After all, this is a dilemma, an issue which is very relevant, but it is also the other issues. So if it were very simple and you could put two lines below that the ID card came without any drawbacks or without any risk of disadvantages for these very vulnerable citizens, it wouldn't be difficult, but we will have to listen to those who turn on the various warning lights.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208180712	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208180713	But the reality today is that it is a huge amount of legal certainty by chance, who then gets a warning. Because when the police have not done what can be said to be the basis for making it, yes, it means that it will be very random, whether you as a drug user get off with a warning or whether you are actually called in court. Now I have been interested in this very much and I think that there may be some sort of knowledge of the target group to some extent here in Copenhagen and to some of the places where they are going. But many times it's a dealer's phone book that gets emptied in South and South Jutland's police circle, and they're all called to court. This assessment isn't being made. Doesn't the Minister think that's a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208180756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208180757	Well, that is not a new issue, and I can see it in Stenbroens Jurister's approach, I think it is the rapporteurs, but we have also got it over with us in the Ministry. And there is reference to some of the discussions we had back in 2012 where I myself was Minister for Health and where we were among others. together provided opportunities for drug use spaces and for the great social improvement as it was for the same vulnerable target group. So I fully agree that there are some issues in relation to the social professionalism of the police and knowledge of the target group, which I think is an essential part of the discussion; so are the other concerns.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208180833	Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208180837	Thank you. The Minister says that the Social Democratic Party itself has revolved around something similar, and I think that is perhaps an understatement, because it has not just been revolved around it; it has been out to propose exactly what the SF is proposing in the motion for a resolution here. I have found an article from 18 April in Berlingske proposing exactly this with the party chairman, the current prime minister, in the lead. They say that you think the police should use their powers on the backers and dealers and not on the most vulnerable addicts. And you actually propose an ID card for this particular target group. Would the Minister not just try to help me understand what the difference is between what was proposed even at the time when the Police Union was expressing concern and what the SF wants to impose on the government today, which is rejected? Just so I can see that there is actually a difference and that you don't just run away from what you suggested at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208180930	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208180931	It is not a question of running away from the intention to talk about the introduction of ID cards as a possible way of shielding this target group from all the things the rapporteur has just said. The President was not, I think, Prime Minister at the time; there was no date on the reference to the article. But no matter when it was, I can be told that when the rapporteur gets to speak again I can easily continue to see the point of an ID card. I think that the SF's rapporteur, in his questions to me, explained to me what obvious advantages that grip has, but we will also have to listen, I believe, when organisations close to these very vulnerable citizens are shouting in arms and pointing at some warning lights that blink. Then I think we should not be stuck in what we ourselves have had as a concrete proposal for a concrete solution if it can really end up doing damage too; perhaps no more harm than good, but do harm to some and be of benefit in other cases. If we can find a solution where we do not do harm and where we do not make the vulnerable group more vulnerable, then it is worth striving for. And there I don't think you should be more stupid than listening when someone turns on the warning lights.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181044	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181045	But what has the government done? What has the Minister done? What has the government done? What has the Prime Minister done that said this back in 2019 before she became prime minister? What action has been taken now to draw attention to the points raised by the Minister and which, according to the Minister, make the ID card difficult to bring out alive? What initiatives have been taken? When you were out proposing this in the media before you gained power, you have to assume that a Social Affairs Minister who represents the government is going to put this into practice. So there must have been a development work going on, where you could look at how to make an ID card that could deliver on these things without meeting the challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181121	Well, we've been working on exactly how such an ID might look. And if you could see that it could be done in a way that didn't have these drawbacks without getting to the end of that otherwise we would have put forward that proposal. In the meantime, there is, among other things. As I also said in my speech, in the section on drugs in the Public Prosecutor's Notice, the Attorney General's Office stated back in December 2020 that a warning should be given rather than a fine. So something's happened. Not enough has happened, and we are not in a position to do so, which is why we are saying today that we cannot support the specific resolution, but that we believe that we must continue to work. Whether it lands with some kind of ID card or if it lands with another grip, we must at least make sure we get to the end of this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181210	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181213	Thank you so much. Thank you for the Minister's speech. I was around with Stenbroens Jurister for 4 hours yesterday, where we visited the fixerum and the nest and a whole lot more. It was actually a really tough trip, but I also had these good discussions on this particular proposal. And I do agree with what the Minister says. For what they quite clearly state is that this ID card will not necessarily solve anything, but actually create a lot of bureaucracy for those who already feel really, really difficult. So I would like to hear from the Minister about what the lawyers of the Stone Bridge, among other things. suggesting. They suggest that a tightening-up could be made under the auspices of the Minister of Justice, so that the police could sort out in a small box whether this was one that was in this very, very narrow field of people, which must be covered by the legislation which, like protects them from reprisals or legal proceedings, etc. What does the Minister think of that possibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181318	Well, I think even if it's on the Justice Department's order, it's one of the things you've been looking at. And that's technically possible. After all, we have been talking to the Lawyers of the Stone Bridge on a regular basis, so we are also familiar with that point. It is technically possible to do such a function, but so, just as an ID card should not lead to increased bureaucracy for an already very vulnerable target group and we should never introduce unnecessary bureaucracy if we can achieve the goal by other means. It has to be because it will also mean that you are better equipped and better qualified to spare this very vulnerable target group as a policeman on the street. It should not be something we do, because we can then cross off in the box, that now we have acted, because now there is a new field inside the police's administration system; it has to be because the police also consider that they are better able to shield this target group.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181424	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181424-2	Yeah, that's exactly the point. When the police meet the person another time, if this is crossed off and they look him up, they can see that this person falls under this rather narrow target group. But it was certainly one of the ideas. But what I really would like to hear from the Minister is when we will be called to some negotiations on this because I can hear that this is something that concerns us all. There is just a need to find a solution, and I think there are good proposals from everywhere, and then there are advantages and disadvantages, etc. But let's all sit down and find a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181500	Thank you. Well, in the first place, on the basis of the motion for a resolution and the debate here, I think that we need to have a working party set in motion, and I said this in my opening speech, where we will have everyone sitting around the table, including the stakeholders who have approached now and been concerned, and then get the ideas that are there out and get them clarified. What are the advantages and disadvantages, and what is the bureaucratic price held up against what the gain is? Is there anything that we have not foreseen an unintended consequence that makes there an increased vulnerability to being abused by some criminal backers, etc.? So we are getting the light so we are quite sure that we do not take a grip that ends up placing a very vulnerable group weaker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181543	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181544	Thank you to the Minister, also for the approach. This is a subject we've been talking about for many years. Wow, where have we been talking about this for a long time, and it just hasn't gotten any better, has it? I may agree slightly with my colleague from the SF, not because I have something against the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly, but I would like the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly to be the Minister for Justice, because where we really see a stop-block is in the police case. It's the police that need to get better. Well, it's almost 15 years, this opportunity to give a warning has existed. I was back in the archives and find myself in consultation in 2016 with the then Minister of Justice, Søren Pind, who said that now I have told them to give that warning, and then it will happen so freely paraphrased and it was just before I believed him. Nothing has happened since then. Therefore, to what the Minister said, I would like to say that the necessary steps have now been taken to ensure that the police are told that they should now do so, asking: is the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly and perhaps also the Minister for Justice quite sure that this will happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181700-2	No, I think we need to do more here, and that is also why this is not just about pouring a motion for a resolution down the board, but actually getting a job done that might end up in some kind of ID card. It may also be that there is another grip that is better and makes these citizens less vulnerable, less costly and less risky for the exploitation of criminals, unscrupulous backers. This is a broader issue at all. We can see that, particularly in Odense, it is a major problem that the criminal gangs who sit on the drug market there simply bind some of the most vulnerable citizens and that they need help to break free from it at all. We really must ensure that we do not push any further in that direction. So, no, I don't think it's enough as it is right now, and I think the Minister for Justice would say that too if he were here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181750	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181751	Thank you. I hope he would, too. What I might really like to achieve, because I think it is fine that the Minister would like to start working out a solution, and I can also be lured by the idea of putting stakeholders together and giving them the task of finding a solution, is that I just really want to be sure that this will be the task of the police. Because what is my concern about the ID card is not, in fact, that I think it is being exploited by criminal backers. I think that, if I am to be quite honest, is something you come up with as an argument; at least I have heard that argument many times. I believe that what may be the problem is that we are giving the task to the vulnerable citizens instead of giving the task to the police. Then can't the Minister confirm that this is the police who aren't doing their job properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181837	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181837-2	First of all, I would like to say that it is not a thought that there are hard criminal networks in this country that are so unscrupulous that they exploit the most vulnerable citizens at all. Well, I myself was at a meeting in Odense about it at some point and met some of those who had tried to help some of those who really exposed citizens who had been subjected to atrocities and used by the criminal networks. So it's not a thought; it happens. So I am in fact very much in agreement that we should not individualise responsibility here. That is also what I hear the rapporteur say. We must not end up with a solution where it is then the individual exposed who is responsible for the law being enforced according to the letter of the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181921	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208181924	Thank you. I would really like to follow up on Mrs Mette Abildgaard's question, because it was back in 2019 that Mrs Mette Frederiksen was on a trip with Nanna Gotfredsen, Gadejursten, where the Social Democratic Party made this proposal just about the ID card. So what has really happened since then? Now the Minister is saying here that we must now set up a working group and examine it. Well, if it was something the Social Democratic Party went to the polls on, why hasn't the Social Democratic Party examined it? Why hasn't a job been set in motion? Now it is that the SF must come up with this proposal before the Minister responds and says that something will be done about it now. Now we're going to write 2022. It's something if we look back to 2019. So what have the government and the Social Democrats been doing in the meantime?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182016	Thank you. We have, of course, jointly taken various initiatives under the reserve aimed at precisely this target group, the most vulnerable drug users. I went through some of them in my opening speech and will not repeat them here. So things have happened in relation to the target group. I guess we can say that without exaggerating that, too, was a Corona management situation, where we have also had a special look for this target group and where some of the new approaches to the target group, which we have supported in the latest reserve agreement, have been developed by the players in this area. So in society as a whole, but also in relation to this target group, there have been some other very pressing issues. Then I have pointed out a few times that since the paper of understanding, steps have been taken to ensure that the police have the necessary knowledge of the rules, but as I have just replied to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, we do not believe that we are yet in the finish line.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182117	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182118	I know very well what we have agreed on in relation to the reserve. We ourselves also fought for extra funds for the Lawyers of the Stone Bridge. But that is something else I would like to ask. You go to the polls, I'm thinking that now you want this ID, and it's gonna help, and then nothing happens. You don't get to check, if among other things. It was an opportunity before we now write 2022, where SF comes up with their proposals, and then suddenly you want to investigate it. So why has it not been started to investigate how best to help?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182158	Thank you. I am glad that the Danish People's Party is very concerned that the government will implement all its policies as quickly as possible, but it is not possible to implement everything at once. I think that the debate here today has also shown that there are some points we need to be aware of so that we do not end up with the best will, with the best intentions to put a very vulnerable group even more vulnerable, whether it is because they can get into the claws and be used as a tool by some criminal gangs, or that is because we end up individualising a responsibility for compliance with the law on some very vulnerable people, or with some of the other concerns that are the flag. But we must listen to them; it would be stupid to risk hitting some of the most vulnerable citizens in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182242	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182245	This debate kind of reminds me of the debate on fixerum that we had for 35 years. And I remember having it with the then health minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen in Anders Fogh's reign over and over again, and it was also always about something where they came up with: Well if we did this, then there would also be dealers going down the stairs to the fix room, etc. Well, you can also invent all those arguments that prevent you from doing good, instead of trying to see if this couldn't work. Unless, Minister, we're talking about a general decriminalization of the whole drug area, I don't think the government wants to get into that, because at least we got some clear statements from the Prime Minister about today in terms of cannabis so we don't get around the fact that we have to set up some kind of administrative arrangement in relation to the most vulnerable somehow. It will never be perfect, but it is better to do so. I see the proposal that comes from the SF as better than the nonsense of giving drug addicts warnings if they have drugs on them. Well, they have drugs on them because they simply need them. Drug abuse is a disease. It's not crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182401-2	Thank you for that, and thank you for that, too. Jens Rohde said that back in his days as perhaps a political rapporteur under a Left Government, he was fighting for the drug consumption rooms and the fixerummen. It was an opportunity which was then given with the subsequent Social Democratic led government, in which, as Minister for Health, I myself had the great honour and humble pleasure of securing the legal basis for doing so. I was met by a bourgeois opposition who said that if they regained power, it would have to be abolished as soon as they came to power. So I'm glad we're somewhere else, too, because I think you can hear that we are. At any rate, no one has made that request here. So I guess we're somewhere else as a community compared to the most vulnerable drug addicts. That is why we also need to find the right grip here, and that is why the rapporteur does not hear me standing here saying that we should not do anything, but we must find the right grip, and we must also find a way to manage it here where it is so easy to go for these very vulnerable people who have burned themselves on the system quite many times. And that was one of the things we could also see during the corona crisis when we had to compromise on how the system worked. It became outgoing and outreach efforts on the basis of the citizens, and then we could reach them in a completely different way. I think we have to think about this in terms of how we can help this target group and get close to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182518	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182518-2	Yes, but I just think it shows that we cannot see the forest for just trees, and it may also be difficult in this discussion, namely to say that the intentions are fine, but, and but, and but. Now do as you did when the fixerums were legalized. Try it off. Let's do something that at least establishes an action for these people. After all, the basic problem is that we treat them in our system as if they were criminals, and that is what we need to get away from with drug addicts. They're sick when they're addicted to drugs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182601	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182602	We must find a way of doing this in which we do not impose a new burden on the bad, weak and vulnerable people, even if it is a new burden, because they have a bureaucratic obligation, in which they are suddenly given the responsibility to ensure that the law is observed, as the letter of the law should, that is to say, that it is the concern they have, or whether it is another concern in terms of exploitation, moreover, where there may be obstacles in the way of police investigations. In other words, regardless of whether that is one concern or another, I think we should have as an ambition to see whether we can find a model for what is going to make us go beyond it so that we do not have the unintended consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182638	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. Then we start with the rapporteur's line and the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Camilla Fabricius, has been prepared.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182705	Thank you, President. The resolution here obliges the government, before the end of the current parliamentary year, to table a legislative proposal which means that the most vulnerable citizens with drug abuse are given an ID card to exempt them from sanctions such as fines and confiscating drugs for their own consumption. The Minister was very clear in the discussion we had just now, where she said that this proposal presents a number of challenges. There is no doubt in the Social Democratic Party that we want an effort that both takes care of and helps the most vulnerable in our society. We have done so and we are doing so in good cooperation with the proposers, and we want to continue to do so. It is important for us that, when you are addicted to drugs, you get help and support and care and dignity. It is also important that you are met with respect in the present and that you are helped where you need it. Fines and punishment are likely to push vulnerable drug users even further beyond the edge and make worse. After all, it is no secret that the proposal is part of our and Radical Left, SF and Enhedslisten's understanding paper. The possibility of introducing an ID card has therefore also been examined, as the Minister explained. I feel well covered by the fact that we are setting up a working group to see whether what we are looking at is an ID card, other solutions or a combi solution. I think it is essential that we continue to work on this, so that we find a model and an alternative solution in which we ensure precisely the achievement of the intention of the proposal, namely to ensure protection and to ensure that vulnerable people with drug abuse can receive the help that is needed. As the proposal stands here, we cannot support it. But we look forward to being able to work even closer to it so that we achieve what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182924	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208182927	Thank you. There's no doubt that the Justice Department doesn't want this, that the police don't want this. Every time it's something that has drugs or cannabis as its focal point, they push it away. I think that is actually quite problematic, because it could block us from finding a solution here. Does the rapporteur agree with the Minister that there are huge abuse problems related to this, meaning that vulnerable people would risk being used extra if an ID was made? When fixerum was introduced when heroin treatment was introduced, we heard some of the same arguments, and there is not one today who dreams of removing the arrangements, because they have proved their worth. So doesn't it make sense to make just a little experimental scheme here if you're not ready to throw yourself into a full-on scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183028	In fact, I think that the reference framework drawn by the rapporteur is relevant to what we are doing when we introduce something that is very new and that a system with its own logic actually seems to be a challenge because it leans on another logic, namely that this is vulnerable, vulnerable people who are in an exceptionally vulnerable situation because they have a personal drug dependence. How is it you work with a target group here, when you also look at giant backers in a different context? There I think the rapporteur has one point in asking: can we draw lessons from looking at how decisions have been taken in an earlier context? Is there anything in the experience we have gained, to which the rapporteur himself refers in relation to the area of drug consumption, and is there anything in the structure in which we actually succeeded in what we can take into the working space that the Minister of Social Affairs has been precise about? That is why I think that what the Minister for Social Affairs has pointed out is a good solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183136	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183137	I'm just saying that we're up against strong forces here in the Ministry of Justice and the police, because they're not very excited that we're relaxing or doing anything different compared to these groups of people. Now we have had a warning system for 15 years in a belief that it was something that could sort out the challenge, and then I get God help me an answer from the Copenhagen Police, which says: We do not have access to the information on social and health conditions that means that we can give them a warning. I think that is a huge problem and I could see that we got an ID card as a supplement to the system we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183220	Thank you. The higher powers we call upon the rapporteur, not in this Chamber, but here we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183228	I once tried calling those we can't call in here. I think the questioner is sharp and precise, and one could also draw another parallel, namely when we went together to make a consent-based legislation, despite the fact that a lot of people around us said that we cannot, or that we should not, or that that is not the case. They did it anyway, because this government is actually going to make a difference. It actually wants to change Denmark to be somewhere else than it was yesterday, and therefore I have a strong belief that we can achieve in the end of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183303	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Socialist rapporteur, so we will move on to the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, Mrs. Maja Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183324	Thank you. A life trapped in drug addiction is extremely hard, and I'd actually like to start by giving Mr. Jens Rohde was right in the very clear message he gave just now that drug abuse is a disease, and that disease is not cured by fines or warnings. Getting out of addiction requires help, but we must also ensure the best possible conditions for the addict to be able to receive the help. This means that there must be qualified help, including abuse treatment, but also social efforts that can support achieving a life free from drugs. Those efforts must be continuously developed so that the efforts are as effective and targeted as possible. But it is important that it is bets that work. With current legislation, or perhaps rather with the way it is implemented, highly dependent drug addicts in practice have confiscated drugs for their own consumption and on top of the hat a fine, and this will result in the consequence that instead of stressful the drug addict to the utmost. It is a situation that brings the addict even further away from seeking help and even further away from having a surplus to working to get something out of it. Instead, we are forcing the drug addict to use his power to obtain new drugs and to be confronted with a pusher for an unpaid fine. In this way, if we want an effective social policy, we will probably put ourselves in the foot. That is why we have also in the Left sympathy for the SF proposal before us, and we agree that aid and dignity are the way forward, but at the same time it must be stressed that we in the Left do not in any way want to make life easier for drug lords who use the addiction of the addict to earn money. Indeed, our support for this proposal should not be seen as a desire on the part of the Left to legalise drugs, but only to avoid beating people who are already lying down. They need the best possible help, and we in the Left would rather use the resources for that. It is also crucial for the Left that the solution we come up with here and find can, in practice too, follow up the intention of helping those people who most need our help, and we look forward to discussing the practical possibilities for it in committee. Whether it's an ID card or whether it's something isn't the decisive thing for the Left. The crucial thing is to find a solution which actually follows the intention here to help some people who are heavily addicted to drugs. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183636	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183639	Thank you for the floor. I do not think I quite caught whether the Left supports the proposal or whether we would rather look at other options. Because if the Left does not support the proposal, I would like to know what the Left's offer of a solution would be, because if we are really going to help these people, it is, of course, about ensuring that no one takes their drugs away from them or threatens a fine when they have a dependency relationship, which I do not think can be punished out of.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183717	In the Left, we support this intention, and now the question of some challenges with the ID card has been raised, and we would like to have that discussed in more detail in relation to what the right solution is to help this group of people. So we would like to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183736	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183738	It is always nice to discuss it in greater detail, but I think that if you are not so enthusiastic about this proposal, you might have had some other solutions. That is actually just what I am fishing for, that is to say, to learn a little more about what it is that the Left could see as a solution to those people who really need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183800-2	Yes, and there is the fact that the people who deal with it in practice, i.e. the police and the Gadejurist, and also this group of people who need help, can probably play a greater role in what is the right solution. I do not want to know what is in practice the right solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183826	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Maybe we should get the liquor off to the next one. That's what we're gonna have to deal with. Here you go to Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208183853	Thank you. At least it's clean up here. Today we are going to deal with motion for a resolution B 32 on ID cards for the most vulnerable citizens with drug dependence. After all, the proposal highlights the exemption from fines for socially vulnerable people who possess substances for their own use. Today we have a special penalty exemption, which is directly reflected in the criminal code in the law on drugs, yet there are major challenges in this area in relation to implementation, which the Danish Parliament adopted back in I think 2007. This is also an area of justice, which includes, among other things: The stone bridge's lawyers follow closely because it is also very important for the people they work with. I am also familiar with the Gadejuristen, which is also very aware of this challenge. I also know that Stenbroen's lawyers are leading information campaigns to the socially vulnerable around the rule, and they are specialized precisely in the field of legal aid. In the Danish People's Party we welcome the debate, and we also have great sympathy for the desire to improve the aid for drug addicts. However, what the SF is proposing in relation to the fact that drug-dependents should not be punished for the possession of substances for their own consumption already exists today. I should also like to refer to the agreement we have just reached with regard to the criminal justice system, which says 'and I quote from the agreement, which we have fought through: 'Protecting treatment for drug dependence'. The parties to the agreement agree that, based on Portuguese experience, a study should be carried out on the advantages and disadvantages of sending drug-dependent drugs to treatment rather than to prison. The investigation will examine which prison capacity might be released by such a model. The study is carried out by the Ministry of Justice's Research Office during the contract period. At the same time, the parties to the agreement agree that drugs must continue to be criminalised, and the backers both inside and outside the prisons must be severely crushed. In the event of the initiation of criminal proceedings for the possession of a substance, it is the responsibility of the police and the prosecution to apply the exception. However, as we have debated today, we can also see that there are major challenges surrounding this. Therefore, it is also important, in relation to the debate, that, if you make an ID card, you focus on the legal certainty of the target group and also that you focus on the authorities' existing obligation. So the rights that exist today are already clear. But what surprises me is that the Social Democrats have been out to say that you would like an ID card, but then you have not started a study on it, including how it can be implemented. At any rate, we focused on this in the very police negotiations. Because I think that this debate also concerns precisely the fact that there is no follow-up to what the law prescribes today. So what I understand from this motion for a resolution is not that we want to grant some new rights, but that we simply want to ensure that the rights we have today are also respected. On the part of the Danish People's Party, we have always held such a position that we should do everything possible to give treatment and help. I think we also have a challenge there. I think that many of us also have drug addiction in our lives; have a family member or have previously grown up with some childhood companions that you can see have ended up in a dependency relationship and where you want to help. It has to be said that the municipalities are failing today, I think, in relation to their obligation. I think that drug dependence is often treated as one of the lowest. They won't be met with respect. Many people have to show up at their abuse center many times a week, for example. if they are being treated with methadone for delivery of their methadone. This means that many cannot even go on a weekend stay with their brother or sister or family because they depend on it. I know of a young girl who had double-sided pneumonia and was often hospitalized, but she also had to ride down to get her methadone treatment. That's why I think we need to think about how we can do this better. However, I am certainly pleased to say to Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt that in the police agreement we have focused on this area and that there will also be an investigation. Then we will have to see how and how we can jointly ensure that the legislation in this area is also complied with. Some of the answers given in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights also prove somewhat ambiguous. I understand that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt is also wondering, in other words, when it is said in those answers that the police simply do not have the powers to do so when we have previously adopted, and the police can handle that in relation to the legislation. So there is certainly something to work on. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208184432	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, so thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Then the next rapporteur from the Radical Left. Mrs. Katrine Robsøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208184458	Thank you. You simply have to settle for me on the platform in here today, because our rapporteur is unfortunately sitting at home with a very difficult break of the elbow waiting for her to be operated on, so I hope you can live with that. Radical Left basically supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF, which means that the most vulnerable citizens with drug abuse can receive an ID card. The existing rules sometimes create uncertain situations for the abusers, and that is not appropriate when dealing with some of the citizens who are already extremely vulnerable. As has been said several times from up here already, the police can already give warnings rather than fines to the socially vulnerable, who abusers are, if they apprehend them with drugs. However, as it is now, sometimes doubts arise because the police do not always have the prerequisites for assessing the status of a charge. That is why we in the Radical Left are at least ready to think new and issue ID cards to those people who need it so that they are not so much exposed in the life situation they are in. We hope that we can stand together in this matter and get something done about it and make life easier for the most vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208184636	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208184701	I would also like to start by thanking the SF for bringing forward the motion for a resolution. This is gradually developing into such a long-standing saga in the Folketing. The first time I had come across the example was when Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF and myself were court rapporteurs at the same time, and unfortunately the problems have not become less than then. Those who are caught with illegal drugs, but who obviously have abuses and social problems, should not be hunted down by the police, they should be helped. The resources of the police must be used to hunt down backers who profit from the exploitation of these people, and I believe we are all very much in agreement on that point. Already when we made the fixerums, we agreed that police time should not be spent hetze the little fish on the street; it should be spent catching those who really make money on it. That's why we've never looked back when we made the fixerums and that we've never looked back when we started with this damage-reducing approach to drug abuse. It's just so strange that nothing has happened on this particular point when all the parties in the Folketing agree on it. Back in 2007, as has been said several times, it was then possible for the police to give a warning to those who possess drugs for their own consumption and who, at the same time, have an abuse and some social problems; so it is not those who have large quantities on them that are intended for resale. We were told that it was the police fully able to look at and that they could assess it, including in the situation. It was based on the realization that you cannot scare people with fines and everything else to stop their abuse • they need help. Back in 2016, when I was the legal rapporteur, we had Søren Pind as the then Minister of Justice in consultation on the very same problem, and I have been back and see myself asking him how he was sure that it would now be better. There's actually such a golden clip where Søren Pind says, and now I'm paraphrasing a little bit: because I'm saying it's gonna happen now, and now I've told them to straighten in. I almost believed Søren Pind because he said it with a sir like that. Søren Mind, and yet it hasn't actually happened. In 2016, 60 warnings were given in the municipalities with the country's four largest cities; 61 warnings were given in 2021. So the amount of warnings has hardly increased, and this shows that there is something wrong with the police with their work. Therefore, this idea of an ID card has emerged and has toured widely, and also before the election Enhedslisten had joined it. We have got it on the understanding paper, and the four parties that hold the majority and are parliamentary basis for the current government have even decided that we would do this, and then there have been some good arguments. Therefore, I would not just say straight away that Enhedslisten supports this proposal, although we fully agree with everything, throughout the identification of the problem and that it has taken too long. I have the same impatience that SF has, but I think we should use it as the lever to take those very last steps to get this right. It may be that what we need to do instead of doing is to make this checkbox, where we force the individual police officer in all cases of fines in cases of abuse for personal use, as well as explain why they do not use warning instead. It creates more bureaucracy for the individual officer, yes, but then we have to do it until this is in place and things are under control. It may also be that there is a third possibility that we have not seen yet. What is important to me is that if we do this now with a working group and a report text and something else, we will have a deadline set for it. In other words, we must have time for this work to end and when the opportunities that user organisations and police can see as a solution should lie as a proposal, so that we have the opportunity to make a decision like Parliament, and so that we do not just put it out in the dark again, because that is too important for it. So again thanks to the SF for holding us all to the fire... I think we should use this opportunity to actually get done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208185203	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Skipper. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208185229	Thank you. Now there has been some debate today about whether the Minister for Social Affairs or the Minister for Justice should be here. I do not have the privilege of being a social rapporteur or a legal rapporteur, but I have been allowed to take the matter before Britt Baker, our legal rapporteur, who could not be in the Chamber today. And it's been really interesting for me to listen to this debate and get a little smarter in this area, because I hear that some of you have been discussing this for a lot of years and have a huge frustration that nothing more has happened in this area. I have not been aware of this problem for many years, but I can hear from the descriptions that are coming that there really is a need for something to be done here. So we have also discussed this motion for a resolution from the SF and thank you for putting it forward with quite a lot of interest in our parliamentary group, and we have tried not to have the normal automatic reaction you can sometimes have when there is a resolution from a majority that you do not necessarily identify with. And this is an area that, to be honest, has also been difficult for us Conservatives over the years. There's a lot of dilemmas associated with this. There are also some things where we have moved over the years and maybe look at it differently. So we've been trying to have this kind of open-minded discussion on this proposal. It has to be said that the Prime Minister was out with a very, very clear message when she was party chairman, admittedly back in 2009, in relation to backing this identity card. Now you hear from the Minister that it is more complicated than that, and then I just think it is a pity that to some extent we have wasted the last few years instead of getting that work started, set up a working group if needed to clarify this. For it is fine that some initiatives have been taken in order to emphasise to the officers the legal basis that exists and that has been there since 1 July 2007, but I also hear just one. from Mrs Pernille Skipper that it has been tried at several other times, also to sharpen, in the words of the Attorney General, the fact that there is the possibility of giving a warning rather than giving a fine. So that's why we're also where we can see the need for us to go further than this. The Minister points out that there are user organizations which see problems in relation to this proposal; reference is made to Stenbroen's lawyers. I would like to hear from the Minister, and we can take that in committee, what other user organisations see problems in relation to this. What are some user organisations referred to? Some of them like Stenbroen's lawyers have been out to express themselves positively about this... they have a wish list that is much longer and broader in this area than this proposal alone, but you think it's a step on the way to solving this problem. I agree with the Minister that we should not be stubborn in this area; we should also be able to see it if there are some things that need to be done differently. So I'm glad that realization is there. I also think that we have a responsibility to set in motion the work needed to take the decisions that are necessary. Because none of us want to do these people a disservice they need real help the first time. Something that has also been filled in our discussions in the Conservative Parliamentary Group has been the task we are putting the police on in relation to this. For it is also an assessment for them to go in and make in each case, where there may be information which is not available but which is relevant when deciding whether or not to exempt in each case. And there's an ID card that's gonna make it easier. Then there is talk of whether you should make a model where there should be a general check every time. I'd be sorry to hear that, administratively speaking. There are other areas for which I am the rapporteur, where we are sitting and looking at whether we could remove a little of all that with cross-checks, bureaucracy and alignment, so we should also be careful to introduce it elsewhere. So I can have some concerns about that model. So, to sum up, I would like to thank the SF very much for presenting this motion for a resolution. This has given rise to a good discussion, including in the Conservative Parliamentary Group. We have a very great deal of sympathy for this proposal and can, in fact, back up the idea of this ID card. We would also like to contribute to a report which Mrs Pernille Skipper also mentioned, in which we are trying to set a deadline in order to oblige the Minister to make this one of the effective working groups, in other words that it is not something that has to go further than it has, unfortunately, already done in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208185650	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, so we thank her. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208185703	Thank you. I was on a tour with the Stone Bridge's lawyers yesterday. I was a lot of places. I was at Nest, I was in the fix room H17, I saw Fixelancen, The Red Van, I met some homeless people and I was out at Sundholm. All in all, it was a really good tour, really tough tour too, but a good one because you kind of get a completely different insight into a world that you don't normally travel in like this I don't. What is really important to me and to new citizens in relation to this is that we ensure the people who are most exposed, and that is what this proposal is about. Some of the points I was told when I was around yesterday and heard some of these pretty violent stories were actually this: if you made a specific ID card, it would create bureaucracy for the individual exposed, instead of it being the authorities that took that post on them. But I think it is very positive, and I can hear that there is such a broad consensus that we must find a solution, whether it is one way or another. Because there are many problems when you are exposed and have these abuse problems. Very often and many times it is something where there is both some homelessness, there are some psychic problems, there are some abuse over etc., so it is really such a combination that must also be handled properly and where as a society we simply have to hold our hands under these people, because they are insanely difficult. I was over there, too, visiting Nest. Of course, we discussed the conditions of these street prostitutes, and so on. Many of them are also addicts, and there was at least one thing that really, really impressed me. If you get your stuff confiscated, that is, what you bought for your money, either because you're robbed by some really nasty people, or if you get confiscated by the police, you're gonna have to go out again and make this money, and how do you do it? Well, for a street prostitute, that means you have to go out and have more customers. She actually told me that some of these women, who were the hardest hit and who were, you can say, deepest down in this abuse, had to have between 10 and 20 customers a day in order to get the drug they needed. Well, it's so harsh and so violent that you have a lot, very hard to understand. The lawyers of the Stone Bridge, whom I visited, have made such a map precisely because these people who are so vulnerable need to know what their legal position is if they are stopped by the police, and I think that is very positive. It's a yellow card like this, so you know what your legal position is. I can at least also welcome the fact that we have not heard anyone who has spoken against us agree that we want to help, and I can also support a hundred percent of the report that Mrs Pernille Skipper also spoke about, in relation to the fact that we are, like, setting a deadline for this, so that we can find a solution. Because what these people are facing is really completely unbearable and that they are being hunted down in this way. So thank you very much to the SF for raising this issue. It certainly also did that there was an area I had dug much further into, and it is always a pleasure, I would say, although it is a harsh area. There is full support for the fact that we will hopefully be able to get a broad report from the country so that we can set a deadline for finding a solution to this problem. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208190108	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208190121	Thank you, President. In the alternative, of course, we support this motion for a resolution. Of course, the most vulnerable drug users should be exempted from sanctions such as fines and the confiscation of drugs for their own consumption. In fact, this reminds me that there is a bill on the way that homeless citizens should not be under the forced and control regime of job centres. Of course, we support that too. Of course, we should not have psychiatric patients on the street either, because there is no room for them in our welfare home. Of course, we should not have a ban on begging and, of course, we should not have zones where the homeless are not allowed to sleep. Of course we're gonna need a fixer room for junkies. Of course, it should not be necessary to set up surveillance cameras in Copenhagen so that people do not have to kick each other into the nightlife. And, of course, we should not forcibly remove more children because we are unable to support the vulnerable families. Of course, people must have Arnepension instead of working themselves to death and leaving their health on the labour market. Of course, young people need psychological help so that they do not suffer from eating disorders, loneliness and depression and risk suicide. But, dear friends, can't you hear that something is absolutely basically wrong? We have a welfare society where poverty and social accidents crawl through too many cracks. We have a society in which we constantly make repairs and put plasters on because too many people do not thrive because we lose too many people on the hamster wheels of the competitive society. It is clear that the alternative supports any improvement in exposed people's conditions, old as young, exposed as homeless, drug addicts as children, but we now find that we are living in a repair society where we are treating and repairing symptoms rather than preventing and making the fundamental changes that create well-being and quality of life for many more Danes. We hope that the parties of the Folketing will be more involved in turning on the big gears of society instead of continuing to adjust on the small screws. We need to raise the bottom level of our society. We need to fix the safety net instead of so many sinking to the bottom while we all get richer. Some of the alternative's suggestions for this are reduced working time and unconditional basic income. It is to introduce more well-being into the education system and replace control and coercion in the employment system. It is to allow sick and injured Danes to receive help and support in social services instead of endless work training in the employment system. It is to discuss how rich we will be when it is so difficult for so many to thrive in the material growth society. It's discussing what it takes to create value in our lives when climate change demands that we base less of our life value on material CO2 It's discussing how we get closer to what matters to us, instead of chasing away as small production units in an upset production society. Then, of course, it is also to create a society where people do not become street maniacs, so we have to equip them with a special ID card so that the police do not impose fines and take the drugs they have for their own consumption. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208190448	The rapporteur for the alternative. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Christian Democrats, and that is Mr. Jens Rohde. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208190456	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mrs Maja Torp for signing with a clear answer from the Left that drug addicts are not criminals; they have a disease problem. I am very pleased to hear that from my old party, because, as a matter of fact, I have been discussing this subject for many years in the Confederal Group of the European United Left. Drug addicts should not be fined the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth or seventh time they are taken with drugs for themselves. Mrs Mette Thiesen illustrated excellently from Parliament's platform why: it just sends them into further crime or forces them into further prostitution. It doesn't give anyone, and they are technically, because they're taking a drug that's illegal. But they're just where they can't do anything about it. In Danish politics, in European politics in many areas, and now I cannot say European politics at a general level, because there are, in fact, many countries where you have had the courage to make many attempts to accommodate, we must say, the decriminalisation of the people who are out in a drug abuse • we have never really had the courage to do anything about it, solve it quite fundamentally legally. And it is my claim that, because we have not had the courage of some people, it is because of the lack of courage, in others it is about moral codes which, like these people's problems, have our drug abuse policy, the fight against drug abuse has been bankrupt for decades. I think we should do something about that. It stays a lot with the talk because we can't see through all the dilemmas. And it was exactly the same thing, as I mentioned to the Minister, in the 35 years we discussed the fixerum before the current minister finally got it tested. And today I don't meet anyone who argues that you have to remove those fixerums. On the basis of that lesson and so that we can move forward and get on to a new track where we do not keep talking where we do not keep standing there and could not see the wood for bare trees, I would like to make it clear without being able to be 100% sure that Mrs Karina Lorentzen's proposal is the perfect and the right, to say the KD's support from here. Because it is time for action. And, of course, if we end up with a report, we will also support it. But thank you to the SF for insisting that we have waited long enough, now we have discussed long enough how we can help some people who are not criminals but who suffer from an abuse and therefore, of course, must have all the help we can give them, and in no way should be chased by the police and be saddled with financial burdens that just push them further into the mud. Thanks to the SF. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208190856	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I can give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208190917	Thank you. After all, I started by annoying myself a little bit that it was not the Minister for Justice, but the Minister for Social Affairs who was here tonight, and that is because many of these issues are of a bit of a legal nature. However, as the debate has gone on, I think I am actually delighted to be the only legal politician, I think, no. Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Committee on Legal Affairs is here too, one of the legal politicians here who is in a circle of social rapporteurs, because it simply gives another debate when we talk about the conditions for the most vulnerable people. This is a debate that we do not really have in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and it might well be that we should invite both groups to have that talk at some point. Although there is not exactly one hundred per cent support for an ID card here today, I can at least listen to the fact that there is support for doing something and looking into the issue more closely, and I think that, on behalf of a group of vulnerable citizens, this is actually very uplifting. Because there is no doubt that we are dealing with some people who have the most difficulty in our society and who are really at risk, and the last thing they need is that they also have the police on their backs. In SF, we basically believe that addiction is a disease. We can't punish ourselves out of addiction. We simply have to move the focus away from treating addiction problems like crime. It is a health problem and it must be solved in a way that we see as a challenge to which we need help. There is no doubt that we in the SF are also concerned that we are looking towards Portugal. I myself have been to Portugal and seen how some of the people who are heroin-dependent have gained stable lives by simply getting the right help and being accommodated. Many of them had work and lived their lives under normal family conditions, while they really lived it with their addiction, and that is where they have said that they are no longer punishing the user, but are giving a call for treatment, and I think that is basically also the way we should go at home. The ID card, which we have discussed here today, is, after all, an indication of what can be said to help a vulnerable group. It is de facto the case that drug users have to meet with a warning. The challenge is that the police can't really do that. I mean, my surprise was very great after I had thought for 15 years that we actually had a system where the police could help these people by giving them a warning and saying that they should not have a fine or worse when they were arrested with their material, because it is clear that if you have confiscated your material, you have to get it by other means, but great was my surprise when I was recently given an answer from the Copenhagen Police, which says: Well we do not have knowledge of the people we meet, we do not have knowledge of their social conditions, nor do we have knowledge of their health conditions. This means that it will be hugely random, who is getting the help, that is, the warning, and who does not get it, and I have asked a lot about it. For example: When the police in South and South Jutland Police Division have emptied a dealer's phone book and found 1,000 contacts that have bought drugs, have I asked: how do you actually do the investigation that means that we are not going to be too hard on people who really have a problem with addiction? This could not really be explained. It may well be that in Copenhagen, where you have local police at Vesterbro, you may know some of these people a little better, and where there is at least a greater possibility that it will end up with a warning, but my claim will be that in West Jutland and South and South Jutland and elsewhere you simply do not have that knowledge, and therefore it will be very random. And that's why we have to do something. We've been discussing this for a lot of years. That is what my colleague Mrs Pernille Skipper actually said when she said that this is a problem we have had up again and again. That is why I think it is positive that we may be able to draw up a report, in other words to set up a working group. But I would also like to say very clearly that I think it should be a fast-working working group and that we must make the ambitious demand that this time we get the challenge solved. I know that they in the Ministry of Justice are not very excited about everything that is about something that just smells a little or tastes a bit of drugs or cannabis they beat the sign of the cross for themselves because they base their knowledge on police attitudes, which may not always be particularly scientific. And that's why this could end in a dead end, and I just want to say, it can't. This time we have to shake hands with each other, and then we'll just sort it out. When we were discussing fixerum when we were discussing heroin treatment, there was also a lot of anxiety associated with it, because what could happen now when we unleashed this? Would we become a magnet for people who came from Sweden and all sorts of places to get heroin treatment and become drug users in Denmark? Did it happen? Oh, I guess it didn't quite! Fixerum? Well, that would also cause a lot of trouble. Nobody is talking about removing those arrangements today. We had a lot of unnecessary worries, and I think we are doing that here too. Let's make an experimental arrangement, let's try it out. Unfortunately, there are people at risk today who are also, yes, what can be said, exploited, that is, those at risk are easily exploited in one or the other context, and we may never be able to eliminate that risk, but what we have to eliminate is the insecurity, the uncertainty, the situation they are today, where they do not know what the day and the way will be like when they meet the police. We have come a long way in our view of drug users, I think, in the time I have been a legal rapporteur, but now I think we should simply take the last step. So let us make a good report text, let us demand that some action be taken, and let us demand that it come quickly so that we do not have another 15 years to discuss whether we can patch up a little bit of a warning system that does not quite work. But thank you for today's debate. I think it has been enjoyable and I think it is absolutely fantastic that we have agreed that we should do something for this group of people. So I actually think we've come a long way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208191635	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208191651	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208191716	Thank you for that, President. With the motion for a resolution here, the proposers want to commit the government to statutory cutting-card schemes in the area of the elderly so that it is no longer possible for the municipalities to remove the schemes and not to have the systems. The comments on the proposal refer both to the rock card scheme for the weakest home help recipients and to the rock card scheme for nursing homes. To begin with, I should like to outline what agreements form the basis of the cutting-card schemes and also what they deal with specifically, so that we are all on the same side. Funding is provided for two cutting-card schemes in financial agreements. The first was the rock card scheme for the weakest home help recipients. For that scheme, funds were set aside in the 2015 Finance Law Agreement concluded by the then SR Government with SF and Enhedslisten. The 2015 Finance Act provided for 75 million. kr. in 2015 and 150 million; kr. annually thereafter to a rock card scheme which the weakest home help recipients could use for activities beyond the existing care provision. The Finance Act stated that the funds had to be paid out as pool funds in 2015 and 2016 and then paid out with the block grant from 2017 onwards. The scheme means that the weakest recipients of home help receive what is equivalent to about half an hour's extra aid and support per week, and they must help decide for themselves what the aid should go to. Who exactly forms part of the group of weakened elderly home help recipients defines the individual municipality itself. It can be said that something as modern as recycling the concept of the 2017 Finance Act was made use of by the then Left Government with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. The 2017 Finance Act provided 380 million. kr. This is where the recycling came into play with the target group nursing home residents. The funds were also paid out this time as pool funds for 2 years and then paid out with the block grant from 2019 onwards. As the motion for a resolution shows, today there is no legal requirement for municipalities to have the cutting-card schemes. A survey from the summer of 2021 carried out by KL showed that 55 out of the 74 municipalities that responded to the survey have chosen to maintain the rock card scheme for the weakest home help recipients, and 57 out of 74 municipalities have chosen to keep the rock card scheme for the nursing home residents. Several of the municipalities that have closed the cutting-card schemes indicate that they have used overlapping offers, that is, offers that can solve the same task, but in a different form, while others use the means to ensure greater flexibility in the tenders. I fully agree with the authors of the motion that many weakened elderly people, both in home care and in nursing homes, have a great deal of pleasure in the cutting-card schemes. The extra help helps to give the elderly experiences that give them joy, self-determination and influence on their own everyday life. I have heard many cozy stories about what these clips are being used for, and that is everything from coming to social events and birthdays, getting out to trade, extra practical help for personal welfare, foot baths or duck wellness or beauty treatments even. That is why I also have fundamental sympathy for the idea of ensuring that the elderly are offered the extra help, but the resolution here lacks funding. The proposers wrongly assume that there is no need to find separate funding because the cutting-card schemes have already been financed through the block subsidy. However, it is now the case that we cannot impose on the municipalities that funds previously transferred to the block grant without being bound to legislation should be used to finance new binding rule changes. It is therefore not free of charge, as the motion for a resolution otherwise says, that statutory rock card schemes. The introduction of a legal requirement for rock card schemes in the municipalities will therefore be met by a requirement from the municipalities to be dut-compensated. If the rock map scheme is to be statutory, yes, somewhere between 600 million and 600 million will have to be set aside. kr. and 750 million kr. annual to the initiative. In addition to this, we must also be aware that statutory cutting-card schemes will mean additional registrations, additional documentation requirements in the care of the elderly. Experience from the municipalities shows that the administration of cutting-card schemes can even produce a lot of documentation. This was both the case when they were paid out as pool funds and now that only local authorities lay down local rules. For example, the City of Viborg, which is one of the welfare municipalities, which we have freed from state legislation and which has accordingly committed itself to abolishing municipal bureaucracy and governance, has. minimized the documentation of their clipboard scheme after they became welfare agreement municipalities. Much of the documentation turned out to be what you might call back cover documentation. The municipality of Viborg has calculated that only registration that a resident of a nursing home had used a single clip earlier had taken up to 4 minutes. When you add it together, it becomes quite many hours a year when you multiply it up with the number of clips and multiply it up with the number of nursing home residents in the municipality. It is time that has been spent in the past on the registration of cutting-card schemes, which will now be applied in the City of Viborg to the care and care of citizens. That is why we can also fear that a statutory clipboard system will result in extra documentation and bureaucracy, and we do not want to go that way from the government. On the contrary, we believe that we must develop our care for the elderly by removing unnecessary documentation and registration, so that employees' time can instead be spent on core tasks: care for citizens, relations, time. That is precisely why we want to create a new law on the elderly. The Older Law must contain clear values such as dignity, freedom of choice, self-determination supplemented by as few documentation requirements as possible. We need to show confidence in the employees. It is incredibly important to me that the employees in municipal care spend their time on care and care and presence with the elderly and not sitting behind a computer screen with paperwork. As I said, we have sympathy for the idea of ensuring that the elderly are offered the extra help, as the cutting-card schemes bring joy to many older people • we ourselves were fads to the first cliff card in a former government • but the proposal here is not funded, and 600-750 million. kr. is in fact a kind of money and a grip in the pocket to stand and lack as financing. In addition, legalising the clip card scheme will provide additional documentation in the care of the elderly at a time when there is a need for the opposite: to remove registrations, remove bureaucracy, remove the time robber who keeps the employees behind a screen of paperwork, and instead to ensure that there are better opportunities to focus on the needs of the individual citizen, and therefore the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208192457	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister. The first is from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208192504	I have to say that I would have been surprised if the Socialist Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly had said that the government supported this proposal. Because we just have to note that what the government would rather do is deprive the elderly of rights rather than guarantee them the right to self-determination and the right to a dignified life. So today the municipalities are getting the money. There was also a broadcast on TV 2 Lorry, where the Elders Case said that they are getting the money right through the block grant increased compared to this area. The fact that it will then cost extra money for the municipalities to have received the money once through the block subsidy, I simply do not buy it. I mean, this is about older people. I haven't met a single elderly person who was incredibly fond of this rock map scheme. And today, it's just that it's depending on which municipality you live in, whether you can get a rock card or you can't get a rock card. So how will the Minister ensure that older people receive the help they want and need and ensure self-determination for older citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208192618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208192619	Thank you. Well, we've really had discussions similar to this one before, and we just can't discuss without the very basic rules, frameworks and principles that are in relation to the dut principles, and in relation to the fact that if we legislate something, yes, we need funding. When we made the first rock map scheme when we were in government, we did not legalize; the funds were spent on the block grant after two years. When the narrow Left Government made the next in its Finance Act, among other things. In agreement with the Danish People's Party, no one was required to regulate the rock card scheme. The same thing was done, i.e. the funds were paid out over two years, and then they came out on the block grant. It would be nice if we could say that it was not the case that funding should be provided when we propose things that are legal and impose tasks on the municipalities, but these are the basic principles in the way our social model works.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208192727	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208192728	It is, of course, the real problem with this that we do not ensure that funds are earmarked for the elderly to ensure that older people have better and dignified old age. And there we have struck the drum for several times in the Danish People's Party that it is important to earmark the funds as well. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister will ensure that residents enjoy the rock card scheme so that they can have half an hour more. It's not that many. There are a number of municipalities that have saved it away. We do not have the latest figures, but it may be that the Minister has the latest figures for it, both in relation to residents of nursing homes, but also residents of home care. So how will the Minister make sure that there is no inequality in relation to the difference between municipalities? Some municipalities have, other municipalities do not. So the help you can get depends a little on which municipality you live in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208192822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208192823	Thank you. But that is what is the basis of the existing rock map schemes. They haven't been legalized. From the very beginning, when they were introduced, they chose to do so, first one government and then the other government. And I fully agree that the Danish People's Party had more influence on the financial agreement concluded under the other government, but also where the Danish People's Party had influence, the cutting card scheme was legally introduced or the funds that the rapporteur is now asking for were tied.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208192856	The next brief remark is to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208192859	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. It may not surprise anyone if I say that for us in the Left, it is absolutely crucial that you can live your life as you choose. Recently, I read a newspaper article about an elderly lady on North Funen who makes use of the rock map scheme. This means that every 14 days she can get her nails cut and lacquered, and it's a really good story, because it's just that you can live the life you've chosen for your life. I would really like to ask the Minister whether the Minister is not sorry that so many municipalities have opted out of the rock map and thus allowed fewer older people to have an influence on their own lives. And I would also like to ask the Minister whether the Minister cannot reveal what rules are now being ignored in the City of Viborg; I think the Minister called it back-covering time. When I ask, it is not a secret, because we often hear that the municipalities themselves introduce rules which are not, as such, rooted in Christiansborg. So have some rules been laid down in Viborg that could not be abandoned elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193011	Thank you. First of all I would like to say that I have also had the opportunity to meet several elderly people who have used their cutting cards for manicure and pedicure and also curling and other really, really fine things, so I have a full look at what this means. After all, I think that what rock card schemes are circling and that we should have more of in our care for the elderly is fundamental self-determination, where it is about the right of man to be who you are, life through, and where that is what is important for the citizen, and not what it says in the system, which is crucial, and that is the whole movement that we should like to have strengthened with a future new old law based on few bearable values of a greater room for action in everyday life, where the employees, the relatives, if there are any, and the elderly have their everyday lives. Two days aren't the same, and two older people aren't the same. We don't get the same just because we're getting older. That is why I would also like to say that I think it is a good thing if, in some municipalities, the same degree of self-determination has been ensured as can be achieved through the clipping system. The cutting-card system is just a method.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193122	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193124	Thank you for your answer, Minister. But the Minister does not answer my question. After all, I asked what rules have been removed in the City of Viborg, which you might or might not just be able to remove in other municipalities. What has been done specially in relation to the rock map? The minister mentioned back cover time, and I am not quite sure what it covers up. The Minister does not need to explain that now, because that may well be a question for him. But I just want to know what rules have been removed in Viborg that any municipality could not remove.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193159	My concept was back cover documentation, and I've stolen it from an economist in the Elders case. Michael Teit Nielsen has to be said when you stand here on the platform as a picture of all the documentation that is out in our care for the elderly and that you do to cover yourself, if there is a single case, or if there is a complaint, then you have your back free, but which is not without consequences. It may be that these are more invisible consequences, but when you add together the amount of individual back cover documentation, a great deal of time disappears from the citizens. And what has been done in Viborg, and we can elaborate on this when the time is a little longer.I think it has actually gone well, is that you have completely laid it out to the individual nursing home, how to manage the rock card scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193247	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193248	I would like to thank the Minister for his speech, in which the Minister also referred to this issue of negotiations on a new law on the elderly and the discussions that are under way. I believe that a great many of us listened to it with great interest when the Prime Minister spoke about it in his New Year speech. I also think that when it is something the Prime Minister dedicates so much time to in the New Year's speech, it is something that has a thorough preparatory work to do. That's why I've just been looking in my calendar and in my mailbox for a while, because I just can't see that I've been invited to one meeting over at the Ministry, which is about this new old law. I just want to hear from the Minister whether the Minister can clarify for me whether I am in the middle of my calendar or whether nothing has been invited to anything yet. The Minister has long ago asked us to reserve every Thursday from 1 p.m. I believe that we are going to have potential discussions in this area in general, and I can only see, week by week, that these agreements are being cancelled, and I think that is a pity. The time is reserved, so I just want to hear the Minister: when will we have the opportunity to be introduced a little closer to what this new old law will contain?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193351	Thank you. Some would say that this question was at the edge of the debate on a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party on the legalization of rock card schemes, but it is a very, very important issue. In this respect, the Conservative rapporteur is right, and I can say that a good deal of meetings have been held in the Ministry on the new law on the elderly. It is true that they have not been with the rapporteur of the Conservatives or with the parties of the Danish Parliament, but with among others. local older people's councils and organisations in this area. There has been this both in the new year, in other words in the year we are now in, but to a large extent in the past year. This whole work on the development of our care for the elderly started with the first Finance Act that we made together with the Finance Law Parties, and where 31 development efforts were set in motion in 30 municipalities throughout the country. That work has been going on, and we have followed it with great excitement and also with optimism and joy at some of the things that have come out of it, for example. the municipalities which took the lead and were front-runners as regards autonomous permanent teams. There, at the latest before Christmas, we have brought about nearly 200 million. kr., that much more municipalities can join. So we are in the process, and I promise that this will also be something that we will discuss with the Conservative rapporteur, and I am very pleased with the interest and enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193501	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193502	After all, it was the Minister himself who chose to talk about the new old law in his speech, and that is why I thought it appropriate to ask about it. I think it sounds interesting that there is work going on in the Ministry with stakeholders, but then I just find it regrettable that you do not choose to invite the parties of the Folketing so that we could have a common knowledge base. When we are about to make these major changes in the area of the elderly, which hopefully will create a fantastic care for the elderly, which will remain under changing governments, then I think it is really a pity that we are not going to enter into the negotiations with the same knowledge base. So this is just a request to the Minister that we be invited to do so, and I would just like to ask the Minister whether it is not natural that we should seek broad cooperation on this new law on the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193540	I would very much like to say to the Danish Parliament today that we will have a broad and inclusive process on the new law on the elderly. Unlike previous processes, where a consulting agency has been set up to do a coal pit of some rules and we have waited a year. I think it was the last time we went and waited and then a report came from that consulting agency and there was very little to discuss from then on, so I think it is absolutely crucial that we turn that process upside down. We do this partly by starting with a blank sheet, as the Prime Minister emphasised in his New Year's speech, on the one hand, by the fact that the solutions will have to come from everyday life, from all the problems experienced in our everyday life in our elderly care as an elderly citizen, as a relative and as an employee. So there must be a very broad and inclusive process, and it will not be Christiansborg that is the starting point. It's going to be everyday life out there in our care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193628	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193629	Clipboard schemes, older billions • you name it • are off for Christiansborg's green harvesting policy, Christiansborg's budget policy, Christiansborg's tax stop, Christiansborg's service ceiling, all the way through. If we now had the courage to set the municipalities free not only in terms of rules but also to set them freer financially, we would not have to discuss these things today. But that would, of course, be a shame, because here at Christiansborg we cannot take credit for what is being done in the municipalities, and we would like to do so. But that is just not the solution if we really want our care for the elderly to be so decentralized that the municipality, the institutions and the home help actually have the opportunity to agree with the elderly. I would therefore like to ask whether the government, in the discussion on this old law, is also willing to look at the hopeless financing structure that we have today, which is binding the municipalities on their hands and feet, and is the real reason why we cannot solve the challenges that we have to face.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193755	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193756	How much a committed debate is so committed that the microphones are even turned on; it is good that it is not each other that you are starting to strike out there. I very much agree that it was paradoxical to follow how the former government would not allow the money, and hence not the service ceilings, to keep up with the increasing number of elderly people in the municipalities. One had decidedly reduced growth in its first economic agreements with the municipalities, and at the same time one went and said that they could simply debureaucratize out there, but one could not even point to any place where one could debureaucratize it, one had to have a consultancy agency, and they could then point to four places, and of them I think that debureaucratisation was achieved in one place. This is, of course, a wrong way to go to our welfare society and our care for the elderly, and I also hope that the rapporteur heard my answer to Mrs Jane Heitmann, where I said: if there are municipalities where this room for self-determination for the elderly has been created, using a different method, a rock map, should I stand here as a Christiansborg politician, minister or rapporteur and say: Well, I had got the idea that it should be with a rock map, so shame get those who have found another and for them better way of doing it? No, and that's what we need to get away from, i.e. that we run retail and centralize our care for the elderly. The workers out there are gradually so squeezed on their professionalism and their room for action, and it is a fundamental basic trait that we must have turned around, and that will require quite a lot of us to do that. Jens Rohde in. This will require that we do not have to regulate and define detailed methods in the way we have been doing for decades.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193929	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208193930	But it still requires us to stop telling people that they can get it all by half, and that we manage the economy of the municipalities in detail to such an extent. Well, it is the case that when you get that older billion, which has to be distributed to the municipalities or whatever, it pushes on the service ceiling, and then you have to cut down elsewhere. We must stop conducting the Molbo-like policy from in here and then set the municipalities free, also financially, and say: The money must of course fit, but it is your job to make the expectation vote and meet the expectations that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208194008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208194009	But we are not far apart from each other, because unlike the previous government, which underfunded the basic economy to the municipalities in the economic agreements and then had some senior posts on the Finance Act and, so to speak, fed the dog with its own tail, the tail was a little too small, compared to how hungry the dog was, we now give the funds for the demography and add to it when we negotiate municipality finances, and that is not earmarked funds. We can see that the municipalities spend the money on the elderly, and that is a very good thing, of course, as Minister for the Elderly I am extremely pleased with the budgeted increase of 1.8 billion. kr. in the area of the elderly in the budget year we are looking into now. That's exactly what I'm hearing, sir. Jens Rohde called for us to go to it that way and not do it in the way that it very quickly becomes a symbolic political race.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208194056	Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. And so we can begin with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208194112	Thank you. When it is I who stand here today, it is because the Social Democrat elder is prevented from being here today. Thanks to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate here on this cutting-card scheme in the area of the elderly, an arrangement which is all possible and which, as the Minister also mentioned, has been introduced for two different target groups under two different governments. There is no doubt that the system has brought about and continues to result in very good results and, above all, a number of elderly people who are covered by this system give a very positive result to self-determination and influence, which is right and proper. But perhaps the scheme has also brought about some of the documentation and bureaucracy that we would actually like to have less of, and perhaps it will be even more so if we start to legislate on cutting-card schemes in the area of older people here by Christiansborg. At least that is something to be feared. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that a new course is needed in our care for the elderly, where we have less focus on processes and documentation requirements and more focus on what really matters, relationships between people, proximity, care and an elderly care that is not guided by schedules and stopwatching, etc., but by the needs of the elderly and the professional skills of the employees. In other words, less detailed management by Christiansborg, more freedom for the elderly and for the employees to organise the work, so that makes sense locally. It should also be remembered that the municipalities are different, and when we have chosen that it is the municipalities that are responsible for the care of the elderly, it is precisely because we believe that you have a better look at how to organise the care of the elderly in the best way possible, and a better look at it than we may have here from Christiansborg. It is not certain that the solution that works well and is the right one in one municipality is also the right solution for all the 97 other municipalities in Denmark. Each time we introduce new legal requirements for the care of the elderly, we are restricting the space that municipalities have to work to create better conditions, and thus we are also restricting the space that citizens have to influence developments locally by choosing politicians in municipal elections, etc. When the rock card scheme was introduced, it was decided that the scheme in the first years would be financed by pool funds and then the money would be transferred to block grants, and so it has become. Now the Danish People's Party is proposing to legislate on this rock map scheme, and although we may have sympathy with the purpose, I regret to say that the proposal will draw, at least it will run the risk of drawing in the opposite direction to what we want to achieve. This will give less local freedom, more state governance and perhaps more demands for documentation and control. I have no doubt at all that the proposal has been put forward in the best sense, like many of the other rules and clauses and procedures introduced over time in the care of the elderly, both nationally and locally. No one wants to introduce more bureaucracy for the sake of bureaucracy, but when you put the many good intentions, the many paragraphs and the many rules and rights and demands, etc. together, one might end up with a system in which one risks using one's strength and time incorrectly for the disadvantage of the elderly and for the frustration of the employees. Then there is the question of financing, as the Minister also mentioned, that the proposal has not been financed, and that is also one of the reasons why we cannot support this proposal. So, although we have sympathy for intention, we cannot support the proposal. I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they cannot support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208194520	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208194526	Thank you. I would be surprised if it were the case that the Socialist rapporteur had a different position from that of the Minister. Having said that, the rapporteur must acknowledge that much of the bureaucracy and many of the rules that are being talked about are something that the municipalities themselves have introduced. It doesn't actually come from Christiansborg. That's one thing. There is another point I would like to hear from the rapporteur when we talk about this. It is really a pity that the Social Democrats will not be involved in the statutory clipboard system. For what it is all about is actually giving the elderly the right and the ability to decide for themselves what they want to spend the time they get; it may, as was said earlier, be coming to a lady hairdresser, getting their nails cut or something else. So how will the Socialist rapporteur ensure that older people actually have self-determination and participation in the help they want? At the moment there are some who can get it, while others cannot get it. So how will the Social Democrats ensure that older people receive the help they need?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208194635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208194636	Well, first of all, I think it is true that much of the control and documentation requirements and hence the bureaucracy that exists today do not necessarily originate from Christiansborg, but is something that the municipalities themselves have developed. I think that is quite right, but I also believe that there is a tendency for the more one legislates into detail, the greater the risk of even more documentation and control. So even though the rock card scheme, as I said, contributes a lot of good things and it's very good to say about it, we don't think it's something to legislate for here at Christiansborg. How are we going to secure self-determination and so on?? Well, that is one of the things the Prime Minister has talked about in his New Year's speech and which the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly has just spoken about here, where they say: Blank piece of paper; start over to try to have a really thorough discussion of a new law on the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208194745	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208194746	That's interesting. The Danish People's Party has itself proposed an elderly law, but unlike the government, we have proposed that the elderly should have rights and opportunities. Now the Socialist rapporteur says: we start with a blank paper. But at the same time as you start with a blank paper, you also take some rights from the elderly. You take away section 83 of the Service Act, that is, you have the right to practical help and personal care. That's what you want to take away. So there are also some inappropriate things in this. The aim of the Danish People's Party is to ensure that the elderly have the right to participate and influence in their own lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208194826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208194827	But then we are very, very much in agreement on what we would like to do in terms of participation and self-determination in relation to our own lives and in terms of everything that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party mentions. Therefore, of course, I hope that the Danish People's Party will also be involved in discussing a new law on the elderly and discussing how we do it best. It certainly sounds to me as if many of the same things we want to do. I think we should just be careful to legislate down to the smallest detail all the time in here from Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208194900	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Jane Heitmann. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208194926	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising an important debate about the rock map scheme for our vulnerable elderly people. For us in the Left, it is absolutely crucial that each individual can live the life he has chosen himself, and that also applies when he gets older. There is a tendency in Danish society that when you get older, the opportunities to live the life you have chosen are reduced considerably, and the freedoms are reduced considerably, and that simply does not work. Our older people have lived a life all their lives, where they have been masters of their own house, if you can say it yourself, what everyday life should look like, what you would eat for dinner, who would come to your home, etc. Much of the natural freedom disappears when the baptism certificate yellows in the corners, and we must have a fight with that. People are different and have different preferences throughout their lives, and that must be reflected in our welfare offerings. Since 2001, the Left has been in charge of a number of free elections in a number of welfare areas. Along with others. The Danish People's Party introduced the Left Slip Card Scheme back in 2017 for visiting elderly people in their own homes and in nursing homes, a strong initiative that provided older people with 30 minutes of extra help per week that they could have at their own disposal. For users of the clipboard there was also the possibility to collect the cliffs so that you could choose to take e.g. on a longer trip to see the street of childhood, watch the grandson play football or go to the hairdresser and get hair done. In short, the rock map has helped to give the individual self-determination and freedom to live more fully the life he has chosen and to give priority to everyday life according to his own wishes. That is, and remains, a core value for us in the Left. Since the introduction of the clipboard scheme, the initiative has moved from being pool-financed to being funded through the block grant, and following the change in the financing model, several municipalities have opted out of the clipboard, unfortunately, and we in the Left are deeply puzzled about that. For this means that older people in several municipalities now have less influence on their own everyday life and the life they want to live, and I am really surprised that the government has chosen to look at it completely passively when elderly people are deprived of the opportunity to influence their own lives and lives. The Left has put forward several proposals which can in various ways ensure that our elderly will once again become masters of their own house. Let me give you a few examples. Left wants older people to decide for themselves who should deliver the food when you are searched for food service. Whether you want to eat meatballs from the local inn, rib roast from the local butcher or carbonade from the municipal kitchen, we at Christiansborg do not have to decide; the money must follow the elderly, so you can choose food service freely. If the choice is more expensive than the municipality's, you can add the difference yourself, because it is freedom for the citizen. I could give many other examples of how there is room for improvement when we talk about older people having to live the life they have chosen for themselves. Today it is the case that many municipalities have one offer when the last important home is to be chosen: the municipal nursing home. That is simply not good enough because, as I said at the outset, people are different and have different preferences throughout their lives. Therefore, there should be at least one free-care home in all municipalities, so that all elderly people have freedom of choice when the time has come to move to nursing homes. I know that for many vulnerable and vulnerable elderly people it can be difficult to find a head and tail in the various free choice systems and options. That is why the Left has proposed that we should have independent cross-municipal older counsellors who can guide our older people and their relatives when visiting a care offer. For us in the Left it is not crucial whether you choose a private or a public one, but it is crucial that there is something to choose from, because care for the elderly is not one size fits all. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party once again for travelling, what one might almost call a kind of freedom agenda. There is, however, an unresolved issue about the financing of a statutory rock map system, and this means that the Left does not support or vote against the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208195402	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208195428	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for once again putting forward the proposal on cutting cards in the care of the elderly. It is, of course, originally a SF proposal which has also been tested in practice. The needle eye for the care of the elderly has become narrower and narrower in recent years and the standards are becoming more and more scraped. I am sorry when I know how older vulnerable citizens can sit helpless in an armchair all day long, deeply dependent on someone coming by and helping with what they may need help with. Is that really what was meant by being as long as possible in your own home? The day can be really long for this particular group of older citizens. There's no way to get a cup of hot coffee if that's what you want. There's speculation as to whether you can stick to it until someone comes back and helps you go to the bathroom. If home care fails to turn on the light in the afternoon, you risk sitting in the dark for hours until the help comes up again or maybe the spring sun is just sharp enough, but you do not have the opportunity to draw the curtains. It may ring the bell, but you can't open the door yourself. This is a really vulnerable situation, but also a situation which many older citizens in their own homes are experiencing today, and a 1⁄2 hour simply cannot compensate for that. I share the wish of the proposers that we should all have the right to get out into fresh air, help to shop in specialist stores, help for extra cleaning or perhaps help to get a shirt ironed. That is the kind of thing that the rock map should allow for. However, I have also become convinced that the rock map became a bureaucratic model in which both the planning of the time for the extra aid and the evidence that the extra time was spent have been a disproportionate administrative burden. Experience also showed that far from all citizens were able to use the time. Admittedly, many managers and employees have been creative and spent time on behalf of the citizens when, for example, toilet paper, laundry cloths, shampoos and other personal necessities that citizens must provide for themselves today. But can one not rightly expect that the citizen who cannot buy personal care articles or does not have anyone to help him with it actually gets help with it, cutting cards or not? It is both my professional and personal experience that weakened elderly people's special needs for support, care and care cannot be put on formal terms. The days are often very different, and what the elderly think could make sense one day does not necessarily make sense the next day. And needs alternate, depending on the forces that may be different from one day to the next. I would therefore like first of all to see care for the elderly, where the elderly and a permanent team of well-known, talented employees can agree together what needs to be done and what efforts are needed, even if this means enjoying the spring sun when it is there. In this way, the permanent team can also give priority to citizens who do not have relatives, for example, being able to get help with tasks that many relatives otherwise perform both practically and socially. I believe that the time has come to recognise that we must be treated differently if we are to achieve equality for all. That is why the SF is not voting in favour of this proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208195806	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208195813	I am actually surprised that the SF is not voting in favour of this proposal, because the SF is also aware of it. That's a good speech. It's a good vision to have for our care of the elderly. But the SF must also recognise that what is going on in practice is not so. And what is done inside Christiansborg to ensure that our older people get something? That's how you tighten up. At least we in the Danish People's Party will do so. Because then they get something instead of getting nothing. Today, we see this time and again, in other words, that our elderly are being careless. It is also very dependent on whether they have any relatives. We have seen social democratic mayors out saying that much more should be transferred to the relatives because they did not do enough. We want to ensure that the elderly have at least an opportunity to influence their own lives, and then we want to legislate. And what happens when things are not regulated? Then it all runs the risk of flowing too. Unfortunately, we have witnessed this in several examples. So how will SF ensure that older citizens actually get participation in their own lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208195926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208195927	I believe, first and foremost, that this is about resources. We know that we are getting more and more elderly people, and that also means that correspondingly more staff are needed to care for the elderly, who also need help. For years we have cut and cut and cut aid well helped by a previous government, I have to say. But here and now we are in a situation where we have to think again. That is why I do not believe that centrally established standards can solve the problem either. I believe that we must really trust that a well-educated, competent staff together with the citizen will be able to find out what needs to be done by the individual. But the reality was that, for example, when my old father needed a special effort, the staff had to show civil disobedience in order to meet that need, because it was not what the standards prescribed or what the search had definitely had to be done at home. It simply does not make sense, and therefore the municipalities must be free to give the staff the freedom to do what the citizen needs in the individual situation, regardless of where one lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208200035	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208200037	Today there is nothing to prevent, I think, the municipalities giving their employees the freedom to deliver according to the wishes and needs of the citizen. In other words, I know there is no mention anywhere of the fact that the municipalities cannot deliver it in this area. That's one thing. There is another point that the rapporteur makes. The rapporteur knows very well that we can then shoot at the various governments that have been there. Then there is also a budget law passed by the former Finance Minister Bjarne Corydon. So what this is all about is that we want to ensure that our older people have a good and dignified care and caring care and that they have participation in their own lives. And how do they get it? They would, of course, do so if the rock map system were to be regulated. It's a small part of the big picture, but it's better than nothing after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208200130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208200131	Well, I can't really say it better than I heard, sir. Jens Rohde said so in the question a moment ago to another rapporteur here on the platform. All these standards and all these demands that we have been making to the municipalities for years were a mistake. I would actually like to call on the rapporteur to go back to his own party and say that we must vote in favour of a welfare law. For a welfare law is intended precisely to guarantee the municipalities the freedom to do the right thing in the situation. I am concerned that older people need exactly the help they need, and not something that we set in front of standards.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208200206	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208200216	Thank you. We believe in the Enhedslisten that it is a sympathetic proposal made by the Danish People's Party. It can be said, as other rapporteurs have said, that this is a relatively modest proposal when we are talking about 30 minutes, but the proposal contains two important points of principle which I think are worth paying attention to in the discussion. This unites, as it were, two basic sensible approaches to well-functioning care for the elderly. One approach is flexibility, which means that the individual can have a very limited share of the aid allocated to him himself. It is reasonable that we should work to find ways of adapting aid to the needs of the individual elderly. The second principle or the other approach is, of course, that it is a statutory scheme and that it will therefore be a right for the individual, so that the scheme does not disappear again, as we have seen in a number of municipalities in the context of the two fixed-term rock card schemes agreed with the financial agreements for 2015 and 2017 respectively. I think it is clear today that there is a growing recognition that there is a need for a reorganization of care for the elderly, so that help for the elderly is not given as narrowly defined individual benefits, but that it is based precisely on a high degree of self-determination for the individual elderly and, above all, on confidence in the employees' professional assessment of the specific needs of the individual elderly. Indeed, it is important that the flexibility we are talking about should remain under the conditions of the elderly and not be created at the expense of the rights of the elderly. There are several approaches to talking about flexibility, and I do not think that I am putting too much into the shoes of the municipalities at least far away from all of them by saying that for many municipalities flexibility is primarily about the fact that the municipalities should not be bound by too many obligations, so that they can move around the scarce resources and use them as efficiently as possible. To this one might object: is efficiency bad? And to that I would say no: it is by no means bad if the tasks are effectively carried out in the public sector. This simply must not be at the expense of the quality of care and care, which is why it is so necessary for us to safeguard the rights of the elderly. This also applies when we are going to discuss the government's new freedom agenda in the care of the elderly, which has already been mentioned several times today. We agree with the intention of the proposal, but I have to say that we cannot, of course, support the proposal as it stands. The Minister has mentioned the problem that the proposal has not been financed. I would like to make a few comments on this, because it may seem strange that the proposal has not been financed, because the municipalities have been commented on twice for the introduction of a cutting-card model. And as the Minister's speech also showed, 150 million were set aside. kr. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority However, because it was passed on to block grants, the money was almost gone again, as if they had never existed. If you are now going to introduce the rock card scheme as a statutory scheme, the ordinary dut principles say that you start over. I would therefore like to say that I believe that the proposers and I will agree that there is something wrong with the way we organise welfare, and there is certainly a need for us to think very carefully about how we are going to deal with this in the future. I really think that we have made an exemplary model over in the children's area when we made minimum standards. Admittedly, we spent money on pools in the first few years, but we did just that, that we guaranteed the minimum standards, so that when the money went over to be financed by the block subsidy, the money was back to what we had actually decided they were going to be spent on. After all, the Enhedslisten has been involved in making the agreement in 2014, so I should not throw the criticism over all sorts of others, but also say, as self-criticism, that perhaps it should have been better foreseen that there was a need to enforce it. So just in the end, we think that in many ways this proposal is pointing in the right direction. We are very much in favour of making a report, and perhaps we should look at the fact that the report should also point a little forward so that it points out that we need to combine flexibility and rights when we are going to talk about the organisation of care for the elderly when the Minister invites us to a meeting on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208200736	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208200741	Thanks for the speech. I also think that the Elders and the Elders' Council are puzzled by the fact that funds have now been given and that we then need to give back funds to get the goods, one might say. Yeah, you might be wondering. But I would like to hear Enhedslisten's rapporteur because I actually believe that the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten have some of the same concerns, in some areas, about the fact that you will now start on a blank piece of paper in relation to an old law. How, then, do we guarantee the rights of the elderly? Well, we've had a majority in this Parliament that wouldn't even write care into the legislation; you wouldn't even write care into section 83 of the Service Act, which says you have to provide practical help and care. So how do we do this when we say at the same time that we must start now on a blank piece of paper, and that we should certainly not introduce the rock card system, because it only provides bureaucracy? My concern is, of course, that bureaucracy should be used in order not to ensure that rights and the right help are actually given.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208200853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208200855	I just wish I had the good solutions ready. I do not, in fact, disagree with what the Minister says, as Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen says: it is a problem if we are to spend a great deal of time managing rights, so that, in the context of the rights we want to grant to the elderly, we spend the time allocated to administer them. That's not gonna work. On the other hand, and I agree with that, I think with the questioner, it is therefore a problem if we free the municipalities without having a leash on some rights for the citizens. I am thinking that there is a common challenge and I wish I had just answered it. There is a common challenge to ensure that the release does not deprive the elderly of their rights and that we find mechanisms so that it becomes relatively simple and relatively time-consuming to check that the rights are actually delivered. And I hope that in the negotiations that are coming we will be able to find solutions of this kind together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208200958	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201000	Now we are not invited to any negotiations, but it may be that the Enhedslisten can reveal whether they have been invited to some negotiations. Because, as Mrs Mette Abildgaard said earlier, we have certainly not received an invitation to do so. We ourselves, in the Danish People's Party, have made proposals for an elderly law and a number of other proposals, including on nursing home boards and other things, but it has been shot down. You would rather start on a blank piece of paper, and there is just one concern about what it is that you want to take from the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201037	After all, I am looking for a good and confidential relationship between the parties which agree on financial laws together, but nevertheless I would say that we have not yet held any pre-conferences. I understand from the Minister that broad negotiations are being convened and we look forward to participating in them. And I can hear that the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten have some common approaches that we can bring to the table to ensure that the flexibility that we hope will contribute to will also be accompanied by some rights for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201110	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silverhøj and to Enhedslisten. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201125	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl and the Danish People's Party for presenting this resolution, which I think had deserved more wind on the bike path, so to speak. However, if nothing else can I come here and declare the full support of the Conservative People's Party for the proposal that has been put forward and that has been debated in this Chamber today. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for doing the work of presenting the proposal here. There has been some debate back and forth between various rapporteurs and the Minister in relation to the financing requirements of this motion for a resolution. I am not going to judge that, but in the draft budget of the Conservative People's Party for the year in which we are now, we have set aside funds for the clipboard scheme. We have not only set aside funds for the half hour in which we are complete, we have actually also set aside funds to double it, so it will apply one hour to our most vulnerable and vulnerable elderly people. And we do, because basically we think this rock card system is really, really good. After all, it is easy to be funny about what you can use a rock card system for and ask whether it really is necessary. Whether it's the older person who gets help to get decorated up for Christmas when we're approaching December, you can easily sit at Christiansborg and think it's stupid, but I would think it was strange if I got old and couldn't get decorated up for Christmas and I might not have any close and loved ones who could help me with that task, and then it would be very important for me to be able to get help on that particular task. Whether it's help to go to the cemetery and hand over a wreath with your deceased, or whatever it may be that matters to the individual, we don't judge in here, and that's what I think is so great about the rock map scheme. Then there are some of these different tasks that you could rightly ask if there are others that could help. For example, this thing about getting out and getting some fresh air. There was a recent study which I think many of us noticed and which showed how many of our elderly people do not come out and experience that the seasons change, get wind in their cheeks and get fresh air. There is, for example, this fantastic initiative called Cycling Without Age, and I know there are many others who take the elderly on a bike ride and get the fresh air and get wind in their hair. And it is wonderful when there are voluntary organisations that want to make an effort when there are Danes who put an effort and contribute in that way. But it is not everywhere that those opportunities are there and there is a really, really good opportunity for our older people to give them what is important for each of them. It is true that many municipalities have abolished it after they were no longer bound to it. When you ask about it, it is often such an argument that it might be a little difficult, you thought it was more easy to include the money as part of the other appropriations, and then you could rather better target what you just thought was easy. It's gonna be kind of a system thought in a lot of ways that justify removing this. And there I just have to insist that, although we must do a great deal to debureaucratise and to make everyday life work as smoothly as possible, there are also just some basic principles that we must uphold. It is, for example, a question of our elderly people being given the opportunity to define what gives value in their lives and in their everyday lives, and this is just the finest example of what they do. I've had some interesting conversations with my party chairman, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, about how he also experienced the elderly area differently from being mayor to sitting in Christiansborg, because when you sit in the municipal administration, you quickly get a different view of things and get some system glasses on, because things have to work in everyday life. I understand that too, but there is also sometimes a need to rise up in the helicopter and say that I understand that too, but there are some fundamental rights that we need to define and some basic options that we need to give to our elderly people. That is why we like the clipboard scheme in the Conservative People's Party, and that is why we have set aside funds in our draft budget to double it from half an hour to an hour, which is why we will also be supporting the Danish People's Party's proposal here, even if it is put to the vote. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201534	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201540	Thank you. And thank you for also reminding us of some of the things you might be able to use the card for. I share the wish that we should also be able to get help on some of the other things that are mentioned by the rapporteur: • Cycling without age, Christmas decorations, visits to the burial site and other subjects mentioned by the rapporteur. In practical terms, we have just learned that a great many citizens are so vulnerable today when they are finally searching for help that they actually have problems using the rock card for anything because they are too weakened. So maybe you really get help too late. It is also a question that we could ask ourselves. But the fact is that when the municipalities budget with the rock map, they also have to allocate this pool to it. And it has to be administered. It is very administrative to register that the citizen has spent his time, and the staff must plan their time to do so. And not only do you have a pool of money that you've set aside for it; you can't use the pot for anything else, because it's reserved for the clipboard. And maybe in the end you're left with money. Isn't that a stupid way to spend the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201653	I do not think it is stupid in the end to leave it up to the elderly what gives value to them and how the money is spent. And then it may be true that many of those who have today been part of the category eligible for the rock map scheme are very vulnerable. But also when you're very vulnerable, it can still be worthwhile to get help with these things... to get decorated up for Christmas, to get to the cemetery, to get to the hairdresser, etc. We would very much like to discuss whether we can make this arrangement in a way that is less administratively demanding, so that it is more based on trust in the employees who are responsible • like some employees who know the elderly well and who can help to see exactly what the need is and what the individual would like. We look extremely forward to the discussions we will have in the Ministry. We also agree that we should all be willing to compromise on some of the things that are heartblood to us so that we can find new ways of doing things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201754	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201755	My message is also that I think the help is too scraped and that there is a need to think about social life and life more than to make sure that people get something to eat and drink and go to bed and go to the bathroom, as the care of the elderly has been cut in many times. But we must also be able to make it less bureaucratic. And there is a huge difference between what citizens need. What is more, then, is not to give the municipalities the freedom to do what the individual elderly themselves need to do? I mean, my father would have paid for the fact that it was the social and health workers who had to buy his new clothes. He wanted me to do that. That's how families are different. And then there may be other personal things that would be nice for someone other than the family to take care of. But it is individual in relation to the individual. Can we not create some room for more flexibility without it having to be in tough standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201852	We can certainly create more room for flexibility and find solutions that make sense for the individual. I think we are just sending out a strong signal with the clipboard system that the offers we have to make to our most vulnerable elderly people are about more than just the basics of meeting needs, getting hygiene right, getting food, clothes on, etc. It sends a signal that it must also be given priority in the municipalities, and that is what I and we like about the rock card scheme, i.e. that it sends that signal. Then it is true that we have recruitment challenges and other things in our care for the elderly that make us challenged.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201929	Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard and the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Christian Democrats, and that is Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208201942	Mrs Mette Abildgaard is absolutely right. There is absolutely nothing to laugh about, either in relation to one benefit or the other or the third benefit. After all, it is the individual's needs that we need to see. Although it is at first sight a sympathetic proposal coming from the Danish People's Party and that it looks like a rock map scheme, I would like to question whether it is in fact what makes it possible to meet the individual and the individual's needs where it is expressed. I fully agree with Mrs Mette Abildgaard and Mrs Jane Heitmann when they say how important it is for there to be some freedom of choice, so that the municipality gives freedom of choice between private and public services. I am much more in agreement with the Left and Conservatives than I think I am with the current minister, whom we sometimes have a feeling of having a somewhat strained relationship with the private suppliers. But peace be to it. That is not what we are discussing here. I just think that we should turn it all around and then set the municipalities free and stop, as I said before, telling people that you can get it all in half. Give the municipalities the freedom to set the tax as they please. Give the municipalities the freedom to set the service level as they please. You have to agree and agree on that locally. That's why we have local elections. As long as the money is right, it is not an irresponsible economy. If, at the same time, we combine the economic freedom that we want to give to the municipalities with the measures that I hear the government wants to implement with a new law on the elderly, so that we also get rid of the rule bureaucracy, then I think we will make much longer, and then there will be much greater opportunities for not only 1⁄2 hours or 1 hour, but actually for us to have an elderly care that is targeted and organized according to the individual, and hopefully an elderly care that can take effect something earlier in a person's life, so that people also get real benefit from choice, namely while they are still able to see the choice. This means, of course, that we must accept differences from municipality to municipality. Some municipalities want one level of service in a number of areas, other municipalities have different priorities, but isn't that what politics is about? Is that not what we all have our good fellow municipal politicians to do, so that we do not have to go into detail with 1⁄2 hour or 1 hour and on the basis of a set of rules in force, where we shall probably come after them out there if they do not live up to our expectations? Because that is the way it is, and all of us who have been sitting here for too long know that every time a crisis or a matter arises out of town, it ends up up here on the Parliament's platform, or at least in a consultation with the Minister, and then the whole mill runs again. As I usually say, we can start by grasping our own bosom if we really want to give freedom to the municipalities, give freedom to staff and give freedom to the individual elderly. And it's always good to start by grasping your own bosom and discipline yourself. Because if you want to change the world, you always have to start with yourself. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208202418	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment and it is for Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208202424	Thank you. Well, then I hope that Mr. Knox doesn't... Jens Rohde has too much work to do with himself in that you always have to start changing yourself, but thanks for the speech. Now, in his speech, the rapporteur says that we must give the municipalities freedom, that we must give the staff freedom and all these things, and we also heard the SF say that we must give the municipalities freedom. In the Danish People's Party we want to give the elderly freedom, that is to say to decide for themselves some of the content of their daily lives. Well, it's very often the system before the citizen. Sir. Jens Rohde also said that we must accept differences. But that's the way it is today. In one municipality you can get a rock card scheme, in another municipality you can't, in one municipality you can get help with the accompanying scheme, a BPA scheme, in another municipality you can't. It is, of course, the differences that exist. is today. So I'd like to hear from Mr. Jens Rohde: How will the Christian Democrats ensure that the elderly really have an impact on their own everyday life?
ParlaMint-DK_20220208202537	Exactly by doing what I said before, that is to say by guaranteeing freedom, and it is true that we can always discuss what comes first, the hen or the egg. But the framework must be there, and what I would like to do is to create the financial and regular framework for the reorganisation of the municipalities, so that expectations and expectations are matched with those of the citizens. This must be done in a local process in civil society, instead of us taking it from in here, and this is, of course, about giving citizens free elections in the end. Because there is not much more free choice in Mrs Karina Adsbøl or some of us who are always sitting in the Struensee Room over in the Ministry of Finance dictating how things should be, even in minutes, whether it should be half an hour or an hour. I do not see much freedom in that, but it is a symptom treatment that we do not give the municipalities economic freedom to provide the service that I know they want to provide, but where they always encounter the service ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208202702	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208202703	I fully agree that, of course, there must also be an economy to deliver. But it can, sir. Jens Rohde, also be so that you don't get the product you pay for, no matter how much money there is. We could see that, also in the example of Else, which we have discussed, which hangs in a ceiling lift where, I think, there are four or soon five helpers standing and looking at Else hanging in that ceiling lift. Well, at least there were enough staff, right? So it is not always just about the funds, but it is also about how to use the funds that are properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208202744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208202746	We can't argue about that. But that has nothing to do with the rock card system, as I understand it. That is why we must have free choice. That is why it is important for the free choice between different systems to follow. But at the end of the day, it is pointless for us not to recognise that, if we are to carry out this task, it requires the release of the municipalities financially, and that is why we want to abolish the service ceiling. The municipalities will then be able to meet the expectations of the municipal election campaign. And I see now that I must be silent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208202839	Completely correct, well seen! And thank you, sir. Jens Rohde and the Christian Democrats. I can give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. This is Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208202907	Thank you. It is good that there is still life in the Assembly hall here at half past nine in the evening. In the Danish People's Party, we want our older fellow citizens to have influence and codecision in their own lives and their own everyday lives. This applies to all older citizens, even if they suffer from dementia and may only be able to make their own decisions in some cases. That is why we also believe that the rock card system should be regulated by law, because the whole idea of the rock card system was that the elderly should have an influence on how they would like to use the extra aid they would be able to get. That influence and self-determination are important because there are not two people who are the same. For some, it will be absolutely crucial that extra cleaning is done every once in a while. For others it may be a walk that brings happiness, or perhaps a trip to the hairdresser. It's spreading joy. But quality of life and joy are something we all need. That doesn't change because you've gotten up in age and maybe moved to a nursing home. Unfortunately, the municipalities are not obliged to keep the clipboard system, and this also means that more people have chosen to abolish it. We in the Danish People's Party do not think that is fair. Imagine that older people in some municipalities, for example. can visit grandchildren or the local card club, while older people in other municipalities do not have the opportunity to do the things that make them happy. The cutting-card system is too important to be downgraded, and that is why we have just proposed that it should be legalized so that it becomes a bottom-up task for the municipalities. I could not help noticing that several parties have actually said to the media that this is a good arrangement and that they have also supported the scheme. Now the Radical Left is not here today, but they have also been out in the past saying that it should be written into the law and that it should be legalized. And then I'm just wondering, 'cause what's it really about? It is about what we all want, namely that the elderly should have participation and be self-determinating in relation to their daily lives. Then you can say so well from in here that the municipalities must be freed. Well, okay, let's say just like Mr. Simpson. Jens Rohde does. The municipalities are being set free. Does this mean that the elderly will have participation in their own daily lives? We basically don't know that. Then the SF's rapporteur says that we must now give freedom to the municipalities. Well, freedom is good too, but how do you ensure that the elderly get the help they need? Today we have legal rights and yet the elderly do not get the help they need and claim, and that is even legal. Then they say that let us set the municipalities free now, because then they can decide for themselves, because we decide too much in here from Christiansborg. Yes, but how will it be ensured that the elderly receive the help they need? Then every time, as an excuse, you say this about bureaucracy, bureaucracy, bureaucracy. Well, we shouldn't have an abundance of bureaucracy either. Now I was just in an interview here the other day about the elderly who live in the nursing homes. Actually, there are no statistics for that. In fact, we do not know how many people disappear in nursing homes in the 98 municipalities. I think that is important to keep up with. Because when you have some statistics, you can also prevent. You can also go in with preventive tools in relation to it and look at the fact that okay, in this nursing home there is a shortage of staff, because that night watchman goes alone with 34 residents, and how is he supposed to keep an eye on a dement that may be door-seeking? So we must ensure the best and most dignified care for the elderly. Unfortunately, we have just seen examples of the opposite, examples of horror. We've seen older people wear diapers instead of having toilet visits. We have witnessed many relatives who have come forward in that their loved ones have not received the help they needed. And yes, the municipalities are under pressure, and many of the employees are doing everything they can, but that is not good enough. And then it can be said that we now want to give the elderly some rights. Now we want to give them some participation. And then you think it's a bad idea, and I just can't understand that. Yesterday we got a letter from the Elders Case. They start by writing to us older rapporteurs, I quote: we are currently seeing a very worrying tendency for more mayors around the country to say that the solution to the major recruitment problems and a sluggish elderly care is that relatives step in and help their older family members themselves. I just have to say that there are a lot of relatives today who are making a huge effort, but who also want to be allowed to be about and perhaps not to be carers. So I also thought it was a problem when several Social Democratic mayors were out saying that it is, as it were, a family task. Well, they already do a lot. In our society, we need to ensure that older people who have built up our society also have a dignified old age, and so there is much that can be done on that front. I've written down several things in relation to it. I would like to thank you, among others. Conservative. I am very pleased with their strong support for the proposal and we would like to double up if that is the case, we are fully on board as Conservatives said. Today we just have municipalities that set their service levels in different ways. We have also here under corona unfortunately seen several municipalities write out to their older citizens that they should be prepared not to get help; they should be prepared not to get cleaned; they should be prepared to possibly not bathe. So I actually think we have a big job to do. I understand that it would be good to have an old law made. We ourselves will be proposing this in the Danish People's Party. But as I said to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, I am concerned that there is no hand in hand with what the elderly are entitled to. Because there's gonna have to be somebody who's kind of watching. I always say that trust is good, but trust is also something to earn. A lot of people do a good job in the municipalities, but unfortunately we also see horror examples, real horror examples, which also means that we all call for consultation. We should also have had the consultation that I myself called for, precisely in relation to how we secure staff. There has just been a study which also shows that a lot of people want to get up full time. They seek full-time access in the care and care sector, but they cannot be allowed to get up full-time. That's why you're wondering. Why do we not ensure that, now that there are some who want to go full-time, they come up full-time? Then I fully agree that we must ensure that we have a good staff in the care and care sector, and then we must also ensure that they have a good working environment. There must be a visible management that is just watching and responsive to their employees. In fact, I feel that it is the employees who actually know what the elderly need. In addition to the fact that the older person himself knows many times, the employees know it too. Those who go to the home every day know. So you could skip a link. It could be. I was trained as a social and health assistant. When I came out, let us say Mrs Petersen one day, I could see that Mrs Petersen therefore needed to be put up for help. There doesn't have to be a visitor to see that. In fact, I believe that it is the professional helpers who get stuck in a home that can easily see what is needed. You can also request if you need a physical therapist or anything else. So there's a lot to be done. I'm just looking forward to it. I am, of course, sorry that there is a large majority in here who have gone home to bed, I almost said. There is a large majority in this House who cannot support this proposal, which I actually think is a very good proposal, which is precisely about the elderly having a say in their own lives. However, I would like to thank you for the debate and thank you for the speeches that have been made. And thank you for tonight.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208203826	Thank you to the rapporteur. We cannot quite say thank you for this evening, because I can say that there is just a brief comment to the rapporteur from Mrs Kirsten Normann, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208203834	Thank you. I now hope that the rapporteur will follow Mr Seligman's remarks. Jakob Silverhøj's suggestion to try to see if you could land a story. In any case, I believe that the rapporteur and I share a great many concerns about how to ensure more quality in care for the elderly. In fact, I also believe that the rapporteur agrees that it cannot be written in advance. It's individual. It depends very much on what kind of citizen you come to. Nevertheless, I took note of the rapporteur's thoughts on bureaucracy. In other words, when the elderly leave the nursing home, it is true that there is a tendency for us to run here and say: we want figures on how many elderly people leave the nursing home. But what was wrong now with having a vision that there were no elderly people leaving the nursing home, in other words, that instead of spending money on making statistics, we should spend money making sure that there are enough staff to ensure that no one risks staying away? That is, of course, the difference between choosing to work with standards, describing in advance what needs to be done, and then choosing to say: we trust that well-trained staff can deal with this with the citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208203946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208203948	I don't think one thing excludes the other. So, in the most beautiful and loveliest world, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, it would be the case that no elderly fellow citizens left the nursing homes, but unfortunately we are not there. It's not like that, because we've seen night watchmen stand alone with 34 residents. That is why I also think it is important to know how many people disappear from our nursing home. And why do I think that? I think that is exactly what it is about, in view of the fact that we may be able to see a nursing home where it happens very often. There you can go in to see how many are at work. This means that it can also be used for the fact that there are actually some more employees. There may be another employee in the nursing home where one night shift is alone with 34 residents. So I think there should be a balance in it, and this proposal is at least on the agenda, and I think I can be sure that the rapporteur agrees that older people should have participation and participation in relation to their own lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208204056	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208204057	I am three hundred percent in favour of the elderly having to have codecision and, moreover, participation, that is to say, at all events, deciding for themselves what to do in their own homes, as to what help they need here and now. I think that is important. But one of the ways to do this is to back the welfare law, which precisely allows you to free resources from bureaucratic standards instead of focusing on freedom for citizens and employees to agree some things for themselves. And so I think it would make sense to look at a possible democratisation of both the Services and Health Act, which we should not forget when we talk about care for the elderly in relation to guaranteeing the citizen more real self-determination.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208204146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208204147	Well, that's why, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, when we were negotiating, Dansk Folkeparti proposed a system of self-visiting. It's just about the fact that you like to tell us what you need to make your everyday life stick together. What is it I need help with in order for my daily life to work? I'm very excited to see what's coming out of it. I hope that something really good will come out of it so that it can be rolled out in all 98 municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208204221	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Karina Adsbøl Thanks for tonight then). As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220208204242	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 9 February 2022, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. Thank you, too, for this evening, from the President-in-Office.
