ParlaMint-DK_20220316143003	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143017	The first question in Question Time is to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply of Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143038	Thank you, President. As prices are rising and rising, why will the government not meet more Danes by sending back to the Danes the billions of kroner that the state earns from the high energy prices?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143046	I would like to start by thanking you for the question. The high energy prices are of great importance to the Danes, and the war in Ukraine means that we are in a completely new situation which only exacerbates the problem of energy prices. The situation is constantly evolving, and the government is therefore following it closely. It is true that in a number of areas state revenue and expenditure are being changed as a result of high energy prices. This applies, for example, when we look at the State's expenditure on a number of concrete RES aid schemes, which are expected to be lower than previously estimated in 2022, as the aid in a number of schemes is tied to the electricity and gas price. This also applies to North Sea revenue. Compared to the savings on the costs of the RES support schemes, the expectation is that by 2022 the State's expenditure will be 4.9 billion. kr. lower than previously estimated. However, it is not possible to use lower costs as a result of the revised estimate as financing for new actions. Similarly, no separate new financing is required when changing estimates increase expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143150	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143151	I know that when you become a minister, all the logic that prevails outside the ministries ends. But if you've saved 5 billion in my world... kr., not that I have personal experience, one must then be able to spend it on something else, and we are therefore in a situation, minister, where very, very many Danes experience problems in getting the money to reach. After all, we are in a situation where explosive energy taxes, explosive energy prices are now beginning to keep pace with general consumer prices, so that it is not only on electricity and heating bills, but also on consumer goods that things just become more expensive and expensive. We saw the other day that the Swedes, I think it was, lowered their tax on petrol and diesel so that it will at least be a little cheaper, not cheap, compared to what it was, but a little cheaper. We see Belgium and the Netherlands etc. We have a government that sits in completely isolated loftyness and just says: for technical reasons we cannot spend the money. I just have to say that this is something that beats me and, I think, a lot of Danes out there with amazement. It is even a government which is, after all, parliamentaryally supported by some who usually say that they want to come to the rescue of the little man and so on. We have offered our mandate-based support for this from a single blue block, but it cannot be achieved at all. So what exactly is the government's bid to those people out there who can't make the economy stick together?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143325	I will start by making it clear whether it is the case that the Danish People's Party's new line is now that in the future it will be the case that if you save money on RE support for a year, that money can be freely committed to what purpose you might think. Will you put your head on the block today so that this is the way it will be if the power should change after the next election?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143344	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143345	I can certainly say that with the energy projections of the Danish Energy Agency itself, there is little evidence that the price of gas or electricity comes down to the level that applied at the time when we made these subsidies. So in that scenario, I can say one hundred percent that the Danish People's Party will be on the average Dane's side.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143407-2	That is not the question. What Morten Messerschmidt wants the government to do is: because there is a lower estimate this year, which is above all only an estimate, but even if it is true that it ends up like this, then one must be free to dispose of it in that year. It would be a new break in Danish economic policy, and it would also mean that we do not have money to pay out because I expect it to be retroactive, and then we will also have to find 6.6 billion. kr., which was suddenly in extra cost of biogas in 2020. So there is actually a small deficit if you compare the two numbers. So 1) Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is helping to find the few billions we saw missing and which are due to be paid to the Treasury now? And 2) it will be so in the future if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt gets power, that if there is an expected estimate that is lower than what one thought, can one freely dispose of the money that year?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143453	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmide for the last round.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143454	We have helped solve the problems of biogas. The Minister will know, because he was sitting at the end of the table when we made that deal. With the specific circumstance we have at the moment, there are almost 5 billion. kr. that is not being used for renewable energy support, and we want them back to consumers under the specific circumstances that apply today. Now I have answered the two questions in a Question Time in which the Minister has to answer questions in. Then it is time for the Minister to answer questions so that the consumer knows why he cannot get his money back.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143519	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143520	Yeah, but I guess it's okay for me to ask you some very clear questions, all the time that Mr. Simpson... Morten Messerschmidt says two opposite things. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt says we've solved the problem. Yes, the problem has been solved precisely by doing what we normally do, in other words saying that if there is a deficit, it is written into the structural projection. In other words, funding for that deficit should not be provided. Similarly, it is not the case that, if there is a surplus on other schemes, they can be used for financing. And then it might be nice to hear whether it is a new principle for the Danish People's Party and thus if they are to support a new government • that every year fiscal policy does not become such that you know what you are dealing with, but that you wait and see how the estimates lie down, and if there is something in surplus, you can use them, and if there is something in deficit, you have to provide funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143601	Thank you. There are no further follow-up questions. I regard this as a rhetorical question. Mr Mort Messerschmid I have only had the floor twice). That was the last question and the last answer that came in this round. Thank you. Mort Messerschmidt Is the Rules of Procedure written about? ) We continue with the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, and that is a question from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143630	Yes, please. Sometimes it's hard to count to four. The question that Enhedslisten raises to the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply here is: Will the government reconsider its decision to build the planned gas pipeline to Lolland in view of the drastically changed supply policy situation and the government's own decision that Denmark should be independent of Russian gas?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143652-2	No, we won't. We believe that the decision to make the gas pipeline to Lolland-Falster is a really good decision, including in terms of jobs. If we didn't, then we were in a situation where Nordic Sugar was very likely to close. This would have really negative consequences for that part of the country. In fact, I would like to invite Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen to try to take a trip down there and talk to the people it's about. Because you can easily give the theoretical example: Well, you could just electrify. The fact is that, after memory, there are 107 sugar factories in Europe, I think. Everyone is facing the same challenge, but not one of them is electrified. Of course, it's because it's not something you can just do. So that's why the choice was: should this company close down or should we make an alternative solution? It was so important to us that this solution turned green, and that is why we are making a gas pipeline, which in the first place, in the short run, will, of course, reduce emissions from factories quite considerably, not as much as if you simply closed them and moved production to another country. But for the climate it is clear that it is far better that we produce in Denmark with less emissions than that it is moved to another country where you produce with larger emissions. In addition, the whole of our biogas strategy is precisely that we need to use biogas in places in our energy structure in this country where it is difficult to decarbonise, that is, because it is difficult to electrify it and it is precisely in sugar production.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143818	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316143819	Yes, but I think we are in a very new situation. And I find it strange to hear that the government will give priority to building a new fossil infrastructure for 800 million. If we are not just in a climate crisis, as we did when we had the last debate, whether we should build this gas pipeline, we are now facing a terrible war in Europe, where it is incredibly important that we make ourselves independent of Putin's gas. And that's kind of what makes Enhedslisten raise the question here again. I understand that the Prime Minister has said that the government is now unreservedly green. I will then, however, allow myself to attach great importance to what are some actions that are taking place. Where I think this case is a little weird is when, in the current situation, we see that there are priority customers and non-priority customers, and then you will build a new fossil gas gas pipeline for some customers, i.e. some corporate customers, who are not really priority customers. Then we have a shortage situation for a long time when we do not have gas for everyone in Denmark. So it's basically the private households that get the gas before these potential new customers on Lolland. I think that is something new from the point of view of when the decision was taken. I do not think that many companies down there had thought that we should be in this new serious situation, where we do not know whether Putin is shutting down the gas or whether we will agree in the EU to reduce further than has been decided, or whether we will only make a tough move in Denmark alone. So you have some business customers who are not priority customers, and that is why I think we are entering into something where there is a risk that it is really a misinvestment because there is no gas in that pipeline. Doesn't the Minister see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144021	It is not the case that there is that it should be regarded as a misinvestment that we in Denmark actually invest quite massively in biogas. That is precisely part of the solution. Then, of course, we can have a professional, factual and even political discussion about where to use that gas best. Yeah, I get that. Here is my argument that it should then be used where there are no alternatives, and sugar production is precisely an example of the absence of alternatives. So you can say: will you not become vulnerable when you use gas in the future, regardless of whether it is biogas? To that there is to be said: yes, but there we must minimise the risk of getting those who can manage without gas away from the gas system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144103	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144104	Yes, it is true that it will be essential in the current situation to get as many people away from using gas as possible, and I also recognise that there is work going on which it is intended to do so. But I'm just wondering when I look at this case and see how much, for example. The Minister for the Environment has also been involved in EU lobbying in relation to the fact that this gas pipeline has been such a priority for the government. I am well aware that there are some who believe that we cannot electrify, but then a partial electrification could well have been a solution that had been proposed instead of being such a pure gas solution. Doesn't the Minister see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144143	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144144	I can assure you that all the technical options have been examined in relation to if electrification was so easy. I have noticed that many people are now very clever about sugar production. That was not to say anything to the questioner, because I have full respect for the questioner's insight into these questions. But it is just to say that in the public debate some have been equally cocky enough to my liking, compared to what they thought a company could or could not. What was the clear signal from the company was that it could, when we look around Europe and see that there are no examples of that being possible and study the technique in it, we naturally base our decision on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144223	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen for one last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144225	However, on the basis of the overall response here, I still think there is a picture that we can risk a gas pipeline being built to 800 million. kr., which consumers are going to pay over their network tariffs and where one could end up in a situation where no gas is sold from that wire and that is a misinvestment. Can the Minister not see that we are facing that risk?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144249	It is precisely the gas consumers who have to pay for this. So that means that it is also themselves, that is to say, they will make use of the gas pipelines in the future. It is clear that not only because of the security policy situation and the security policy situation we are in, but also, of course, as part of the green transition, it is always the case that we have a way of adapting ourselves so that the economic incentives are precisely such that the gas is used where it is best used. We in Denmark are quite good at making biogas, but of course not so much that everyone can just use it loosely. That must be where there are no alternatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144327	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply and to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Then we proceed with the next question, which is to the Minister for Health, asked by Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144338	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144341	Thank you. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that, for example, The Region of Southern Denmark has a procedure according to which patients should wait for at least 4 weeks to get in touch with the visitation for a time for surgery when the region cannot offer an operation within 30 days?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144358	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144359	Thank you for the question. No, I don't think that's fair. It is my clear expectation that all regions will, of course, fulfil their obligation to respect patients' rights, and it is also the case that the information provided by each region must ensure that patients are given the best possible knowledge of their rights and are able to make informed choices. I would like to say that I am not aware of all the specific circumstances and procedures in the Region of Southern Denmark, but I can inform you that in replying to a committee question on the same subject, I have asked the region to make a contribution describing the circumstances, and I expect to receive the contribution in April, when I will then send it to the Parliamentary Committee on Health, and of course I look forward to reading it myself. I have noted in the press that the region itself has indicated that the waiting time to get in touch with the visitation is unacceptable and that not enough has been done to ensure that there have been enough staff. I can also understand that there have been steps to adjust capacity up precisely in this search unit. And on the basis of the facts that I can read about in the press, I have to say that action seems absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144512	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144513	I am glad to hear that the Minister is taking this seriously. The reason I got even aware of this is actually my very own experience. I'm facing an operation for hernia, and it's not because I have to complain here, because it's something else. I was on a feasibility study, and then I'll come home last week, and the next day I'll have time sometime in September. Fair enough, you're busy, there's booked, there's many on the waiting list, etc. Then I think: Okay, I've got some guidance material from the region, and it tells me that I can call a phone number and get details on how I can get an opportunity for an operation within 30 days. Okay, I'll call you on this number. I'm gonna get an answering machine that says that now I have to listen very carefully, because now I'm getting an important message. The important message is that I have to go to a website. I have to go to a particular page of the website and fill out a form that goes to the visitation so that the visitation can come back to me. I'll do as ordered. I'm going into this website, and it's very nice too. I need to give some information about my contact details and when I can be contacted and something like that. I'm gonna get this message pressed, and then there's an automatic message coming up saying I can expect a minimum of four weeks to pass before I hear from the visitation. I can read in the material of the Region of Southern Denmark that the regional visitation helps with rapid investigation: If you want a faster time for investigation, investigation or treatment than the one you have already been offered, you can contact the regional visitation. That's what I'm trying to do, and then I'm told that my 30-day warranty can be answered in four weeks' time. That's very, very strange. It is a good thing that the Minister has now become aware of this, and I would like to know what the Minister is going to do to make this really work just a little bit better.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144706	Thank you very much for the personal account here too. This story is new to me. The best wishes for prompt treatment to the questioner! In addition, I can also say that there are others in the same situation, because we could read in the media that there are patients, including patient organisations, who have raised this problem, and that is where I have referred to the region saying that we have a problem here. And it's a bottleneck that's like... because it was something that had been chosen for conflict when there was a conflict, which means that there is now a hump. All the explanations may be good enough, but there must be solutions on the table now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144742	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144743	What puzzles me is not so much that there may be waiting time and that there may be humps and such things to do something, but that you cannot even get a contact with anyone. I'm thinking I'm gonna be okay, and I can wait until September, too. It wasn't for that. But all those who really need just a quicker clarification of their options cannot even get it. I simply do not understand that the region can get itself to put a voicemail in that way or that they can get themselves not to make sure that there are some people you can call and get just a fair explanation of what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144819	It is precisely true that there are patient groups that have a lot of resources and there are also diseases that are less burdensome. There you may be able to endure this, but there are also patient groups who need personal direct guidance and also need to be able to talk to someone at the other end of the pipe, who can provide practical guidance on what to do in this situation, which is an insecure situation when you need treatment. You've been cleared out, but you can't get the treatment by the time you're normally guaranteed. So, of course, we need to focus on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144852	Thank you. And that is the questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144854	I am glad to hear some understanding, and I look forward to seeing that from Monday we can start discussing the government's health issues in relation to tackling this, because of course this also reflects the challenge of crowding out tasks in the being we are looking at. I do not think it is of bad will that the region has done so, but at least that is something that we together, I hope, will have to resolve when we arrive next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144924	But I would very much like to shake hands on that, because it is. It is certainly not of bad will either, nor is it because of the economy, because the economy is guaranteed to our regions in the agreement we have made on the part of the government, to have the backlog that is, handled as quickly as possible and also to use all the private, but of course also the public capacity that there is at all. That is why these pluggings in the system, which are different places, here a concrete example, need to be corrected as quickly as possible, and I am also very much looking forward to discussing the whole of the health reform together with the parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144953	Thank you. The question has been answered. We will continue with the Minister of Health and Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316144959	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145001	Thank you. How does the Minister imagine it would be possible to enforce a lifetime ban on the purchase of cigarettes for all born after 2010 both in the grocery trade and in the illegal market?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145013	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145014	Let me first outline the problem. About 13,600 people die each year as a result of smoking in Denmark. It is almost one in four deaths in Denmark, and we also know that these new nicotine products are harmful to our children and young people. After all, we have put in several measures, well-meaning measures; the effect has just not been good enough. Too many young people start smoking or become addicted to these new nicotine products, and the latest figure we have is that in 11⁄2 years there has been an increase of almost 15%. in the proportion of 15-29 year-olds who use at least one tobacco or nicotine product, so we are now at 31%. of these vintages that use at least one tobacco or nicotine product; you are therefore dependent on it. So there is a need to take it seriously and for a new approach to this problem, and that is why we have as our goal that no one born in or after 2010 should start smoking or using other nicotine products. It's not just cigarettes, it's actually other nicotine products in general. And it is quite true that we are ready to use significant means and also, if necessary, gradually raise the age limit for the sale of tobacco and nicotine precisely for this group of people who were born from 2010 onwards. This, of course, requires a majority in the Folketing, and it also requires the law to be put in place. How is this to be enforced? Well, we do have age limits today... we do... for the purchase of both alcohol and tobacco. Indeed, there are different age limits in relation to retail purchases. That is something you enforce, and it would be the same way you would have to enforce it here. If we come to an agreement in the Folketing on this sliding age limit, it would have to be phased in from 2028, which means that we have plenty of time to prepare for the framework needed to have the best possible enforcement of this new approach, which will seriously end the fact that every year we have children and young people who become dependent on these drugs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145222	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145223	It is not because we in the Danish People's Party disagree that smoking is harmful. Nor do we disagree that we must do what we can to prevent young people from starting to smoke, because that is where it starts. It is not people who are our age, if I may put it that way; it is something you start on from childhood. That, of course, is also why we have an age limit of 18 years today. What I'm asking here is how you imagine it, if you actually make a new age of authority this way. So today we have some age limits of 16 and 18 years in relation to alcohol and 18 years in relation to tobacco, but it is still related to being of age when you are 18 years old. That is to say, when you are an adult, you have the right to do the things you now have to do as an adult in this society. This suggests that when we reach 2050, I must go in and buy a tobacco product, but the 39-year-old person standing next to me must not. The clerk has to deal with it and, indeed, maybe to ask about identification with virtually all customers, for who is sure to know the difference between one of 30 years and one of 50 years of age. At least there are some who look about the same, and then there are others where it is much easier; it is a completely different thing. But I just think we're looking into some issues. Today, of course, we have the problem that many young people are starting to use those products, and they also start before they are 18 years old. And how do they get the tobacco? They can't buy it. There's a problem with them anyway. In addition to that, of course, there is also a problem with some helping them get it. Is there anything you want to do about it? Because if the age limit is just raised and it is the same mechanism and they start anyway when they are 14, 15, 16, then we just get a stream of tobacco coming from outside that we are about to deal with. So what I really want to hear in concrete terms is how the Minister imagines that this specific proposal, with an age of authority varying, can actually be enforced.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145419	I can imagine several options, but first of all I would like to say that the current age limits for both tobacco and alcohol are far too bad for us to enforce in Denmark. When some people do research and control on how things are going with compliance with this, things are going very badly. It is all too easy for our children and young people, even under the age limits that are in force, to get hold of these drugs that they have to stay away from. The whole point is to say that they should never start getting this addiction, so that we get rid of the demand from our society. That's what this is all about. And it won't be easy to enforce, but of course it can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145457	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145500	But of course it can be done, says the Minister. The Minister stands straight and says that today it is far too easy for those who are below these age limits that we have today not to comply with them. Then it sounds naive to me when you say that if we just make a new age limit, that if we just set a higher age limit, then you start applying it. Why would you do that? I mean, I am where I think we have some age limits today, which I recognise, and that we must do everything we can to ensure that they are respected. And if we can find a way to keep them, maybe we can start talking about other age limits if it is finally to be, but before we can have them respected, shouldn't we focus on making it work?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145535	The current age limits, which I think are too lax, are too bad for us to comply with. And it may also be part of our health reform discussions to discuss what we can do to gain better control of it. We're spending a lot of money to control this, and you're catching incredibly few, but we have figures that it's very, very widespread, so it's all too easy to get these drugs. The second is that we now have some years to plan this, and that means that we can look at what is of new payment options, what can be done by different age verifications and other things. We need to discuss with each other how best to do this so that it is practical to deal with in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145618	But if just calmly came to the conclusion that no one under 18 had started smoking when they were 18, would we not have got really, really far rather than start doing something that I think is a little strange, that is to say to have a society with an age of authority that varies and where, as an adult, we must have something different? When, then, is there a next thing that you cannot do, if you belong to certain age groups, that is, if you are too old, too young or something else? So could we not agree to say that we have some age limits today that do not work well enough and that we need to make them work, that is to say that this is where we have to make an effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145652	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145653	Yes, but I am quite sure that if cigarettes were invented today, they would be prohibited from entering any market, at least in the Danish market; I am absolutely sure of that. But now they have been introduced into Denmark. It was once thought many years ago that smoking was healthy, but unfortunately we now know how dangerous it is and how to become addicted to it. Denmark is one of the countries that has most of the COPD deaths of a nasty disease that affects people who have smoked. So we know completely about the addiction, the diseases and the deaths caused by smoking, but now we have it in our society, and we must ensure that it is eliminated completely. There are plenty of other things that we have banned from the start because we knew it was dangerous, but this will be something that we will gradually have a ban on buying in Denmark if our proposals become reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145740	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. We will continue with the Minister for Health, and this time it is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk of the SF who has to ask a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145753	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145755	Thank you. What is the Minister's attitude to using the Corona War Fund to relieve the psychiatry of children and young people now and here and to ensure that children and young people receive the help they need, as a recent study from the Ministry of the Interior benchmarking unit shows that 12%. more children and young people have been in contact with psychiatry in the first half of 2021 compared to the same period in 2018 and since the Corona War Fund was used to lower waiting lists in health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145844	Then it is the minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316145845	Thank you for the question which is, of course, about whether you can use this corona war box, which is the popular name for the box in the Ministry of Finance, to address this problem. The purpose of this war fund is to deal with temporary challenges in the light of the covid-19. The challenges raised here by the questioner are increases in psychiatry for children and young people, and that is not temporary, unfortunately. It is a development which has been there for a long time, even before corona. Compared to 2015, approx. 7% several children and adolescents were in contact with psychiatry in 2018. So there was also a serious increase even before corona, and child and juvenile psychiatry has experienced an increasing trend over the last 10 years; that is actually reality. So the Corona War Box is made for these temporary acutes. If we can do something now and here in the short term to solve a specific problem, then we will do it and use it for it. One thing is that it is not a problem that has just arisen because of corona. Another thing is that this is not a problem that we can solve now and here, because psychiatry is facing exactly the same basic challenges that we have in the rest of the healthcare system. This is particularly true in relation to recruitment and retention challenges. Psychiatry simply lacks competent staff. This applies, among other things, to: for psychologists in our municipalities' psychological and pedagogical counselling services, what is called PPR. This means that we are lacking psychologists, and we are also lacking psychologists in our other systems. So it is not possible to say that this is a short-term problem which can be resolved now and here with temporary arrangements. That is why the war fund, which is being asked here, is not the right place to find the funding to solve the challenges that I fully agree with there. But they're not temporary. If they were, it would have been easier, but these are some more fundamental challenges we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150045	Thank you, and then the questioner has two minutes to elaborate on the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150047	Thank you. I therefore agree with the Minister that this is not in itself a temporary issue. However, we have seen marked increases in dissatisfaction among children and adolescents on top of corona. Many different people, including professionals, report this, and we can also see it in various studies, such as: the health profile that was published here on the second day, which shows that it is in fact the case that one in three young women is in disarray and that one in five young men is in disarray. So we have seen some serious increases. I agree that it has been an increase that has been there over time, but it is also one that has been intensified, and that is why we think it is a very good opportunity to say that we need to have some urgent efforts in relation to putting in place right now and here for those affected by their well-being. Another thing is the 10-year plan. For now I heard the Minister speak a little about the long-term plan. After all, we have been waiting for it for some time and, as far as I am aware, there is a call for negotiations. But what does the government intend to do about precisely solving the many and great challenges that are in psychiatry, with the great miserable trend we see?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150202	That's right. Because we set it in motion and ordered it, we received a technical presentation from the Danish Health and Social Security Authority with a thorough review of what it takes to do what can result in a 10-year plan for our psychiatry: How can we prevent much better, and how can we do much better? And this is both about very, very sick patients, but also about better prevention and about what is called low-threshold offers. And now we are being asked about children and young people, and it is also about strengthening the psychiatry of children and young people, which is one of the main points of the report, and I would recommend that you dive into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150240	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150241	If you look at the government's own proposals, you see that in reality the government itself addresses the problems of dissatisfaction among young people, but what you are proposing is really more rigid regulation when it comes to children and young people, i.e. primarily young people, hopefully not children, the use of tobacco and alcohol. Does the Government and the Minister really believe that we have achieved satisfactory results with some suggestions as to what we can do in relation to the well-being of children and young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150309	No, we're not. It is one of the biggest social problems one has in Denmark, but indeed also in many, many other countries. It is a generation that is currently struggling with poor mental well-being and also poor physical well-being; who is struggling with loneliness; who is struggling with self-harm; who is struggling with poor self-esteem, and where, as a society, we are not able to seize them at all and are not able to invite them together, it is also being young. So we are at all, not at all in line with that. We are taking some steps with the health reform, but the next step that will follow is, of course, the 10-year plan for psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150349	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150350	Yes, but there is much more than psychiatry when we talk about the well-being of children and young people, and there I hope the Minister can answer whether the Minister also intends to invite cross-sectorally into an action plan for helping children and young people in their well-being; we are also talking about school, we are talking about day care institutions, we are talking about the social area, so that we can just go in and help these children. Our understanding paper states precisely that a national action plan must be drawn up for children and young people. Is the government going to deliver some of these things soon so that we can help children and young people to improve their well-being?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150420	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150421	Yeah. We're going to deliver on it. However, when it is said that something is coming soon, it may be a bit of a pretext for reality. In the most recent financial laws we have entered into with the parties in the understanding paper, we have among other things. opened up to permanently make the possibility of extended free psychological assistance for our young people. So there are, after all, a large number of measures that have already been introduced and are being introduced here and now. And then I say that, in addition to this, there will be a health reform with some more measures, but the very big thing is, of course, the 10-year plan for psychiatry, which will deal separately with children's and young people's psychiatry, not only in terms of treatment but also in terms of prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150506	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Health and thank you to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. The next person to ask questions is sir. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative and the question is to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150526	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150527	Thank you, President. Can the Minister confirm that he takes note of the opinions of the Animal Health Council set up to advise the Minister when laying down rules on animal welfare and ethics and acts on them, and that the Minister, after reading the latest opinion of the Animal Health Council on mink production, in which a unanimous council on the basis of existing research in the field, considers that mink in small cages is unacceptable, agrees that a restart of mink breeding in Denmark would be animal welfare indefensible?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150610	First of all, thank you to Mr. Torsten Gejl for the question. Let me stress straight away: the decision to cut down all minks by 2020 was taken solely on the basis of public health considerations. The crucial thing for the government has always been, and still is, public health. Therefore, the first step is also that the Statens Serum Institute should re-evaluate the risk to public health by reopening mink production. The State's Serum Institute has asked that we get over the winter months before they could get a new risk assessment, so they had an up-to-date knowledge of how the virus and the vaccines went. We have listened to that. Winter is now over, and we are entering the spring, and the risk assessment has been ordered. When we get the assessment, we will have a political discussion. I have obviously noted that a number of parties in the Folketing want mink production to be permanently banned for animal welfare reasons. This also applies to the author's own party. I have also noted that, on the contrary, a number of other parties want mink production to resume. For those lots, consideration of the profession is crucial. There are obviously different interests in the Folketing. In relation to the issue of animal welfare and animal ethics, as in all other political negotiations, it is possible for the parties to bring it to the table when we talk about it. However, for the government, public health is crucial in terms of reopening mink production. Only when the assessment by the State Serum Institute in relation to public health gives the green light will other discussions and considerations become relevant. That is why we are now awaiting the experts' assessment, and I look forward to the subsequent political debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150816	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150817	I mean, the Prime Minister has told me in this Chamber that she and the government are very, very concerned about animal welfare. Animal welfare is the responsibility of this minister, and I simply do not think it is possible that the Minister will not comment on it. Mink team is a huge animal welfare problem. Mink in nature will be alone, they are very territorial; they will never be as close together as they are at mink farms where they go up and down each other. They're also what's called semi-aquatic. It means they have swimming skin between their toes. So, they are designed to swim and hunt in water, and it has to be said, to say the least, that there is not much water in a cage. So they're probably in a permanent stress condition. This is a problem that we have to deal with now, as we are rethinking mink production in Denmark, not least because the Animal Health Council also finds it unacceptable to keep mink in small cages. So let me at least ask: what is the Minister's position on the animal ethical problem posed by mink production?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316150932	Before we took the decision to cut the minks by 2020 for public health reasons, the assessment was that it was justifiable to have mink production in Denmark. So the decision to knock down these minks was all about public health. I think it is important that we take things in the right order. Now we await the State's Serum Institute's assessment of what it looks like in relation to public health, and when we have their green light to open up again, we must discuss what we are doing from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151015	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151016	It simply cannot be that I cannot get an answer at all to my question. Well, the government says that animal welfare is very dear to them. The Prime Minister tells me directly in this Chamber. It is the Minister's responsibility. The government says that chickens shouldn't be in cages. Why should mink be in cages? So, what is the Minister's position on animal welfare in relation to mink?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151039	Well, there should be no doubt that animal welfare is very high on the agenda for this government too. And it is also true that one of the first initiatives I have taken as Minister for Food was to make an exclusion of it with caged eggs, so that all eggs must be from free-range hens too like organic chickens. In relation to mink, the assessment has been that it was within the framework of what was reasonable animal welfare. So the decision to put the mink down has simply been about public health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151112	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151113	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). I am abandoning my last question, President. It's pointless.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151127	Thank you. The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. We shall continue with the next question, which is addressed to the Minister for Children and Education, by Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151143	Here you go. Let's start by reading the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151148	Thank you. Is the Minister, like the SF, concerned about whether we are doing too little to combat child and youth displeasure, as the National Health Profile from 2021 shows a clear increase in dissatisfaction among young people? In particular, the problem is high among young women, where the proportion, which has a low score on the mental health scale, is close to 35%.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151223	The minister. Is there any sound through? That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151231	Now I think it's there. The short answer is yes. I am just as worried about that as SF is, and I think we have a very good cooperation on it too. There are unbelievably many ways into the problem, because the causes and causes of dissatisfaction are very different from one young person to another. It may be because you come from a powerful bumpy home background; it may be some major structural things in our society such as the scale of character that help to put pressure on young people. It's just to say that on the extremes there are many, many ways in and therefore very many different ways, we have gone together to solve these problems. If I'm just going to mention a few of them like this, we've made a big deal about the national tests, which are some of the things that have also been very close to SF, so about this test system that had been made, where it was completely impossible for the kids to see through what it was actually they were tested in, and where they always felt behind because they couldn't see that the tasks ended anywhere. I could mention that we have just landed an agreement in fact as recently as today it has been published on exposed children and young people's schooling. That is where we are dealing with another group, with another type of problem. We have also made the agreement on minimum standards, where there will be a lot, a lot, more money to the day-care institutions and thus more adults, and thus a greater presence, which will hopefully also sit in the way of children getting better, including in the well-being account. And then we've made a massive effort in relation to word-blind people just to take a next issue, which is also about well-being, because you go through a whole school time without having been discovered that you are dyslexic, but of course you also have some challenges in the well-being account. I think we should continue to dare to go so diversely into it that we say that the well-being agenda is about many different issues. That is why we must also dare to think about it in the various agreements we make and wear well-being glasses, even when we assess the different contractual complexes. I hope we can continue the good cooperation on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151436	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151437	It is true that we have made some good agreements, which I think will also help to push some of it. But there is no doubt that we in the SF would have gone much further, both in relation to how many tests we should have, but also in relation to the whole character tyranny that prevails in the primary school and actually in the whole educational system. When we look at the marked increases, it is not a small, gently rising curve; it is a violently rising curve. And I'm just saying, when one in three young women in this country is in disarray and one in five young boys in this country is in disarray, then there's something that's scary, and then we're in a hurry. Because we need to get to work and we need to get to work in relation to the mental well-being of young people. It's also about the structure, it's about that society and what it is we're offering children and young people in this society. Our understanding paper says, among other things, that we must promote the well-being of children and young people, and we must have a national action plan for mental health in particular educational systems, which must identify actions that promote the well-being of children and young people and reduce the culture of performance. Among other things, it must: include an assessment of whether grades can be smaller in the education system and whether the scale of characters needs to be changed and whether other forms of tests need to be introduced, and finalise the evaluation of the admission system initiated. It's in our understanding paper. Now we're almost three years old in this reign. Are we not far behind, especially when we look at how the increase is going in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151618	Yes, there has been a global pandemic, as you know. I also think that if you dive into these numbers, part of the increase that we see is a very drastic increase, I totally agree with the seriousness of this has to do with the pandemic. A large part of the extraordinary increase we have seen because it has actually been increasing for very many years, and then there has been such an extra jump in the figures I just think also relates to that the measurements have been made during the pandemic. And we should not be mistaken at all for the fact that there is a huge backlog around it. But that's what's causing it. There it has been more important for us, indeed also in cooperation with you, to set aside money for the work of well-being here and now. This has been more important than the completion of the national action plan. So I think if we hadn't done this and now, the numbers would have looked even worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151702	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151703	Yeah, but the question is, is that good enough? And I just think we can see clearly that it isn't. And we simply need to get far closer to some sort of action plan. So I would like to know whether the Minister is prepared to convene some negotiations or discussions on how we can initiate initiatives. Because we need to deliver on mental health now. In the same context, I would also like to know whether the Minister will help us to do this in a cross-sectoral way, so that both the Minister for Health and the Minister for Social Affairs can be involved. Because it's about the whole human being. And then, in fact, whether you are willing to deliver some money from the war box here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151740	I mean, I just don't think we should be negotiating on this in the Parliamentary Chamber to make it plain. I understand the enthusiasm; there have been new figures, and then I understand the eagerness that will then come to the Assembly. But it is just to say that for me it is extremely important to deliver some concrete things that change the concrete reality. That is why I welcome the things we have done in relation to minimum standards, and I welcome the things we have done in relation to the national tests. I think we are getting very far in relation to the well-being agenda. But it is obvious that this is not enough, because the increase is there, and that is why I firmly believe we should move forward. However, in terms of amounts and how we do and all this, I think we are doing in a negotiating room.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151818	I am very pleased to hear that the Minister is open to that. I hope that the Minister will take his colleagues into his hands so that we have a complete plan for what initiatives we can launch, because we need to get started now. I understand that things take time, but now we have been waiting for three years for this national action plan and some very concrete initiatives. We can, of course, read that the government has some concrete initiatives in the area of young people and their smoking habits and their relationship to alcohol, but there is really no concrete action in relation to the mental dissatisfaction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151853	Well, I understand the eagerness. It happens every time someone's done a new investigation. But I also have to say that we are talking about a deep social problem, in other words, understood in the sense that it is all over the Western world. This is an incredibly serious problem. That means that if someone thinks that we can solve this by rushing a lot and doing something, and then it looks really fine, you're just wrong. That is why it has taken an enormous amount of preparation to change the national tests. Actually, we have now. If we are to deal with such big and heavy social problems as the misfortune among children and young people is, then it is no good to rush and want something now, now, because there has just been a new investigation. But to change national tests, introduce minimum standards and go to things, so that we change those huge structural blocks and make the money run to the right places in our society, and that is what we have done together during this reign. So I don't recognize that we haven't done anything, after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151948	Thank you to the Minister for Children and Education and to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. The next question is Mr. Morten Messerschmide from Dansk Folkeparti, who is asked questions to the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151958	Please read aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316151959	Thank you, President. Given that the Minister has chosen to put Charlottenlund Castle on the market, will the Minister state what ideas and considerations have been made in this regard, not least in relation to the historical importance and value of the castle, and how such a wide-ranging decision can be made of great importance to Danish culture and history without involving the Folketing, and what action will be taken to prevent the castle from coming into, for example, Russian or Middle Eastern hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152027	Thank you for the question. Charlottenlund Castle has been used for business purposes for a number of years. Slots- og Kulturstyrelsen has therefore considered that there are no particular cultural reasons why the state should continue to own the castle, and the castle is now being sold. However, the castle and the surrounding castle garden have continued to have cultural historical value. I fully agree with the questioner. Against this background, the castle and garden are also subject to conservation measures that ensure that the castle and garden are preserved. The peace will still be there, of course, after a sale. Therefore, it remains the case that the garden will have public access after a sale. It follows from the conservation of land that the palace garden must be preserved to its full extent as a recreational green area with public access, and that is very, very important. When it comes to the sale itself, it follows from the state rules that the sale of state property such as: Charlottenlund Palace requires presentation through an act in the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee. The Danish Parliament's Finance Committee will therefore have to approve a sale of the property. I have already discussed a sale of the property with several parties, and there is a broad majority in the Folketing supporting this sale of Charlottenlund Castle. It is planned that the property will be sold via Freja Properties, which sells property in the state, and I am confident that they will find a proper buyer who will take care of the property. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152158	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152159	It is incredible, in fact, that the Minister is not a minister. So, the historical estimate is left to the Danish Palace and Culture Agency, and in relation to everything that is about the sale itself, the Minister has complete confidence in a private real estate agency, Freja etc. I do not know if you can almost replace the minister with an official and then save that money. I think that this is an incredibly bad decision, and I think it is inconceivable that we can do so without standing in the Chamber. Yes, I know that some agreement has been made with a majority of parties probably over in the Ministry at this time. 23:00 in the evening, where you could avoid the worst news. But it is only because the press points out that I will then cause it to come to the Parliamentary Chamber, and that is what makes it possible for us, moreover, here in a completely drained Parliamentary Chamber, to discuss where this is the first time that we are going to sell a castle that has housed our kings. It's Christian X's birthplace. Frederik VIII lived there with his queen etc. If you walk through the castle, you will see the most beautiful paintings of Christian IX and his queen. It's cultural heritage. Now, when I ask where the guarantees are that this is not going to end up in the hands of a Russian oligarch or some Middle Eastern oil sheik, the minister says that it is handling Freja property. Well, shouldn't we agree that Freja Ejendoms has one interest and that it's to make money? And the Minister for Culture should have one interest, namely to serve the Danish people. So this is a question of our national identity. If you start doing this, there's nothing to stop you from moving on. If one day the Jutland lobby succeeds in moving the Folketing to the mainland, then Christiansborg is just without such cultural value. We can just sell it. I think this is a really bad deal. I think that is a really bad way the Minister has dealt with it. That is why I really hope that this will be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152354	Thank you. I did not have as many specific questions, but more of a series of opinions, and the rapporteur has every right and right to express them. What I am very concerned about is that we have a castle which has a magnificent garden to which public access will remain. It will be a recreational area from the community. We also have a castle of historical importance which, as a consequence, is naturally subject to conservation and therefore also strict requirements and rules on what to do with it. It is thus preserved for posterity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152430	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152431	I shall not belittle the botanical interest of the Minister and the emphasis on the garden. I am more concerned about the castle and the principle that people are now starting to sell out state property, which for centuries has not only been culturally valuable, but has been the framework for Danish history. That is what I am asking the Minister to do and not how the garden can be trodden forward by people in Charlottenlund and surroundings.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152458	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152459	Thank you. I will allow myself to be concerned with both. We have a castle which, of course, has a historical and cultural value. I fully agree with the rapporteur in this respect. However, the question is whether the historical and cultural value requires the state to be the owner of a piece of paper, especially since 1935. professional rentals and where it has not been publicly available. Now there is a great deal of attention on the part of the rapporteur that there must be. One can then have an opinion on that, but if it requires the state to be the owner of a piece of paper, I would still question it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152539	Thank you. Then it's the enquirer, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152547	Thank you. It's beyond question that this castle is a huge cultural heritage for Denmark. However, in his initial answer to the question, the Minister mentions that the palace is largely used for business purposes today, and that is indeed factually wrong, so I would really like to ask whether the Minister is aware that there is actually a lot of cultural activity going on and that it is not just a culturally worthless castle. In addition to the fact that there is something historical in it, it is actually also used for a whole lot of good communication. Bellevue Theatre has played Jeppe on the mountain, there are concerts, and there can be satire and all sorts of other things. So there's actually a lot of other good things going on in this castle, and in addition to the cultural and historical value, it's actually a place where a lot of people enjoy coming and experiencing theater, such as... Bellevue Theatre performs there. Then the Minister does not think, both because of the historical, but also because it is a cultural gem today • Although I understand that the Minister seems the opposite, is it actually a cultural gem • that we should retain such a good place?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152643	Thank you for the question. I'm not neglecting that at all. I just note that it is in fact dependent on a local plan adopted by Gentofte Municipality, which says that it can be used for cultural purposes, but that it can also have a business purpose. This means that it depends on the tenant who is now, and for a long time it has been used differently. It changes who owns a piece of paper, doesn't it? So both in terms of how it is used, which tenants use it and whether you choose to open it or not in relation to the local plan, or in relation to whether it is protected, a sale does not necessarily change it. But of course I would like to discuss how we create the best possible cultural framework around our lives, also around Charlottenlund Castle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152731	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152733	I simply disagree. Well, I think that there is a very fundamental change in the framework of how we hold on to good old royal palaces, as this is. There is a part of the royal family that was born there, and there are some who have lived there, and it is a completely new custom that we are now starting to sell out of our good old castles. On the contrary, I think it is crucial that we, as a state, hold on to them, both in order to preserve, protected as it already is, but in fact also in order for us to use them so that the public can come and experience theatre, confirmations and other things that are otherwise being held there. Surely it is a slippery plan to choose as a government to sell out of our hereditary silver. Well, I guess that's what it is. A good old Danish castle that has been used by the royal house, we must preserve. Surely we should not sell that without knowing where it ends up in the world in terms of ownership.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152816	Fortunately, we are so privileged, as the rapporteur knows, because the rapporteur is also a cultural rapporteur, that we have plenty of places, areas and buildings of great historical value for our common history in Denmark, of which the state is not necessarily the owner. It doesn't change the fact that they still go away can be amazing and of cultural historical value around the quite country. So ownership itself doesn't change the conservation, for example. public access to the garden.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152843	Well, thank you for that, and then it's Mr. Knox. Morten Messerschmide for one last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152846	And that will be a very brief question: can the Minister say what the Danes get from now selling Charlottenlund Castle? What is the advantage to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152857	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152858	Thank you. It is really more a question that is about the fact that if you want to insist that it should have the purpose that I can hear Dansk Folkeparti think it should, we have to change the local plan from the municipality, compared to what kind of framework it is that should be about this castle at all, and for example. insist that it should always be open to the public. Because if you do not want to, it is a castle that is rented out for business rentals, at least for long periods, and which a form of ownership does not change. Mort Messerschmide So what's the advantage?).
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152928	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Culture, and thank you to Mr. Morten Messerschmide and Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. The next question is to the Minister for Employment, and that is what Mr. Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152941	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316152942	Thank you. Will the Minister explain why he has changed his position since 15 December 2021, when he was in Question Time on Question No. S 297 replied that, in general, I think it would be wise to clarify what the level of accidents has been; and then you have to take the discussion and ask the Working Conditions Council to look at it again, so that the Minister now believes that the rules for record coverage of beautiful old lifts should not be looked at again, despite the fact that there is no evidence that accidents occur due to lack of record coverage?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153025	Thank you. It is the government's concern that we can safely, safely and safely use lifts. This applies to both new and old models. Lifts are typically found in places where many have their walks, and it is therefore important to have a high level of safety. The requirements for lifts are therefore intended to prevent accidents. As I have informed the Employment Committee, the Labour Inspectorate is not aware of the extent of accidents involving this type of electric lifts. This is because it will usually be private individuals who may be injured. They typically do not come to the knowledge of the Labour Inspectorate because it will not be an accident at work. I will repeat from my answer to Question No. S 297 from December 2021 that there are no new rules. The rules for covering lift shafts for existing lifts without CE marking were tightened back in 2015. However, a linguistic error meant that the stricter rules meant that these older lifts had to meet quite the same requirements as new lifts in relation to the density of shaft cover. This was not the purpose of the rule change. The requirements for the density of shaft cover for these older lifts were therefore relaxed per year. 1 July 2021. Today it is therefore possible for an owner of this type of older elevator to choose e.g. a glass plate or a perforated plate with smaller holes. An overall regulatory committee of the Working Conditions Council, composed of the two sides of industry, agreed with this change of rules. Having said that, I always think it might be sensible to consider whether we have struck the right balance. I have asked the Danish Labour Inspectorate to look into this and, on that basis, to call the social partners to a meeting to discuss the issue. I look forward to hearing what the social partners find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153217	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153218	It sounds as if the Minister is now bleeding up a little and saying the opposite in an earlier answer to a question I asked • that the Minister intends to do something about it here or at least will investigate it further etc. That would be natural, because the Minister's answer to the questions I have asked shows that no one knows that there should be something problematic about these lifts being covered with wire instead of being covered with plates. The question then is: why should people be required to cover these old beautiful lifts with plates when the thread cover that already exists has apparently not led to any accidents? Why would anyone do that? I would like to know whether the Minister agrees with the observation that, if there is no evidence, which does not, of course, mean that accidents occur due to the fact that the lifts are not covered with plates, the conclusion should be that it was a mistake back in 2015 to decide which is whether it is an old rule or a new rule that they should be covered with plates. After all, there was no evidence that it was a problem that they did not have records. When we take it up now, it's because, despite the fact that it was back in 2015, this rule was adopted here is now that the owners of these elevators are asked to cover their old beautiful elevators. And there are two options for them: they can either put some iron plates around them, and it costs a certain amount and will to some extent hide the elevator so you can't see it, or they can put glass plates around them, and it costs about twice as much. Then the question is whether this expenditure and this double cost should be charged when it is unnecessary. Why would you do that? I would like the Minister to say that it is a little stupid that this rule has been set in motion at all when there are no problems with the present state of affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153419	I believe, first of all, that this rule has been made in the interests of safety. The fact that a linguistic error also meant that the rule was over-interpreted to apply to a particular type of lifts has already been relaxed from 1 July 2021. Secondly, the questioner is quite right in interpreting my oral answer now, namely that it is a softening. For the truth is that we can understand from the questioner, but also from many others and from the owners of old lifts, that the solution agreed between the parties does not adequately take into account the architectural glory of these old lifts. That is also why I would ask the parties to look at it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153506	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153507	What do we do in the meantime, then, by the fact that the companies responsible for checking and approving lifts are asking the owners to set up records at the moment in accordance with some rules which the Minister is in the process of examining whether they are really necessary? Can the Minister send out something that does not actually need to be started until we have finally found out whether the rules are necessary, or should people now, because they are threatened that their elevator cannot be approved, do so, and then the rules will be made in half or a whole year, so that they should not have done so?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153541	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153542	Let me put it this way, it would certainly be inappropriate for people to start to conform to the rules first, and then the rules will be changed again. However, I must not be allowed to return to the rapporteur with what we are doing exactly in the intervening period. After all, this whole debate is based on the fact that I am being honest, just as the rapporteur has difficulty fully understanding the need if it is the case that no one really gets hurt. That is, of course, what I have now also asked the social partners to re-evaluate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153619	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153621	Does this case perhaps give rise to the question whether, just because employers and workers agree that some people should be charged with an expense which leads to money in the employers' treasury and work for the workers, it necessarily means that it is right? Then there should be a minister who looks at it and says: Hey, is it just employers and workers who have melted their own cake here because they want those jobs, or is there actually a real need? Is our system and our way of controlling that system really appropriate when we can just decide that some people should be charged with an expense that goes into the cash register of workers and employers without that cost being necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153659	I thought it was so pretty a moment before, for Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen and I were just about to agree on how we were looking at this case until Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, in my opinion, just took a step too far, because I do not see the concern of workers or employers for safety in the labour market as an indication that they just want money from one box to the other box, but rather as an indication that they take account of those people who, every day, work either in or in different circumstances, who may risk making them either ill or injured. These are the considerations which must always be weighed up in the face of general social considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153743	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Employment and to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. The next question is to the Minister for Education and Research, by Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153753	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153756	Thank you. Does the Minister fear that some of the young people who, because of the agreement on the relocation and closure of training places, do not enter their desired training will not receive any training at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153809	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316153812	Thank you for the question. The question relates, of course, to the discussion that we are having right now and that we have had for a period of time, after an agreement has been reached on the relocation of education and the provision of good educational opportunities throughout the country, and the higher education institutions have submitted their plans for relocation, which we are currently discussing in the contract circle. In addition to the original 21 invitations to tender included in the political agreement, there are more than 100 ideas for new and relocated invitations to tender outside the largest cities. It can, for example, be done. be persons who have formed a family or otherwise have no opportunity to move to one of the major cities. In order to get closer to the issue beyond this context, I would say that the educational urge is strong among Danish young people. If admitted in one place, experience shows that young people are instead applying for admission to another education. Skilled young students who are ready to take an education do not fail to take an education; if there is a place they would have liked to have been in where they cannot get it, they are looking for another education. That's what it's all about. When the then radical Minister of Education, Sofie Carsten Nielsen, introduced in 2014 the so-called unemployment-based dimensioning model, which limited admission to education with persistent superiority, it was subsequently found that the vast majority of applicants who had applied for one of the limited courses applied to another education, and this is indeed a good historical example of the strong educational urge. Education is important not only for society but also for the individual, for the formation, development and opportunities of the individual. We should not have fewer people with higher education in Denmark, and therefore the purpose of the agreement on more and better educational opportunities in Denmark, which a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties are behind, is also to ensure that we continue to have many good opportunities for education throughout the country, and that some who cannot therefore necessarily move so far after that have the opportunity to take an education closer to where they live. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154022	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154023	Thank you. I also hope that even more people will be on the training car. I think that would actually be the right ambition for us to have, so that a higher percentage of Danish young people and Danes in general will actually have the opportunity to take advantage of our education system and thus also be allowed to be freed and live the life they dream of. Because that's what education can do. But I'd like to ask you a little more about this, about how the government has expected the young people to just keep up with these educations. Because in the fact sheet of the government's proposal it is written literally, and I would like to read it out: there is reason to believe that approx. 90% of the students who are not admitted to the largest cities as a result of the reduction will seek education outside the largest cities. 10% will expect to look for other empty places in cities in education not covered by geographical dimensioning, etc. I assume that when you make such an assessment, there are some rather precise analyses behind it and not just a hope and a belief. Because I would also like to believe in the best, but I also believe that it is necessary to prepare for the fact that things are not always going as they were just dreaming. So what exactly is the government's evidence of having this 90-10 distribution in relation to the expectation of where the young people are going and not seeing anyone falling away?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154206	Perhaps we are now moving a little bit into something a little bit beside what has actually been asked, and I am also happy to answer follow-up questions about various written sources from which Mrs Katrine Robsøe can find and quote. However, if it is to be about whether or not we expect young people to have an education, even if they do not get into it, they actually preferred it because for some reason it might be somewhere else or whatever, then we have a very strong example in that it introduced an unemployment-based dimensioning by Katrine Robsøe's own party chairman. In other words, the strength of the training demand has very clearly shown that young people choose to go to another education rather than the one they should not have gone to because it was dimensioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154253	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154254	Now I just want to point out to the Minister that these are not random written sources, but that it is the government's and the Ministry of Education's own fact sheet from the government's own initiative, which is why it is estimated that all young people will follow and seek a new education and how their search pattern will be. It'll be 90-10. So I actually think it would be quite fair if the Minister could reply to that. I would just like to ask you a few questions, because the DEA's report certainly shows that this could lead to a very great deal of apostasy. What, then, is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154337	I think it is brave of the DEA in this way to make calculations on education and the assessment on education, where they do not yet know what it is that is located where. I would say that if you place courses that are usually attractive and where institutions and universities, for example. themselves believe that they can expand existing good campus environments in medium-sized cities in Denmark, where they already exist, or establish a new strong environment somewhere else, so only have reason to believe that this can actually be done and that they can both attract students and also carry out programmes for young people applying to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154418	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Katrine Robsøe on the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154419	Thank you. It is a good thing that the Minister believes things. After all, the DEA's report points a little in a different direction, and they have looked down in the data that has at least been used to make that kind of calculations. As I said, it is a good thing to believe and hope, and I actually hear that the Minister says at least in the first place that the percentage of young people taking higher education will be kept at least. If the Minister is wrong, how long will it take for the Minister to intervene? How many fewer young people will the Minister allow to receive higher education before any action is taken on this agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154459	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154500	I believe that this is a very strong hypothetical question and that my fear is, in fact, that if we did not make an agreement like this, we would risk fewer people getting a higher education because it will be longer and opportunities will be worse. In the years ahead, with fewer young people in youth, we will risk increasing the centralisation of education. In order to avoid this, there is a very broad majority in the Folketing that takes a significant responsibility here, and this is important both for young people and for the development of our entire society. That is why we are implementing this agreement in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154533	Thank you for that, thank you to the Minister for Education and Research and to Mrs Katrine Robsøe. The next and final question is to the tax minister, and that has been asked by Mr. Denni Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154542	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154543	Thank you. Will the Minister take the initiative to increase the driving allowance by 2022 due to rising petrol and diesel prices?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154554	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154556	Thank you for the question. There should of course be no doubt that the government takes the current situation very seriously. The whole of Europe is in a deeply serious situation which also affects ordinary Danes in different ways. For example: We have seen that, in March, petrol and oil prices have risen a great deal, so that is one of the reasons for this. has become more expensive to get to and from work if you drive by car. At the same time, there are also other factors which mean that prices have fallen again over the last few days, so the increase has decreased. Of course, we are keeping a close eye on that. It is important for the government that we give the Danes the opportunity to live and work outside the big cities and for those who have a job in Aarhus or in Copenhagen or somewhere else where you should be commuting, the opportunity to do their jobs. The transport allowance helps to ensure that it covers part of the costs of transporting itself to and from work. It is not only good for the Danes, it is also good for the Danish economy, because it increases mobility. With rising petrol and diesel prices, for example, A public nurse commuting by car to and from work will find it harder to make the economy stick together. An alternative for some may be to use public transport instead of driving more people together in a car, but we are aware that this is not a solution that is possible for everyone. The transport allowance is calculated on the basis of a kilometre rate, which is estimated by the Tax Council. This provides a good flexibility in relation to the changes in the level of expenditure. Normally, the kilometre rate is fixed once a year for the coming year, but I am pleased that at its next meeting on 22 March the Tax Council will discuss developments in petrol and diesel prices in relation to transport allowances and transport allowances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154742	Well, thank you for that, and then it's Mr. Knox. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154743	After all, I hear the tax minister saying that you take it seriously, that you keep an eye on it and that you take it seriously, but when it comes to acting, there was a rather limited answer. As I heard, you would actually just push it over to the Tax Council and not do anything yourself. The reason I am taking this up is because I am thinking: why are we not acting politically on this ourselves? It is okay that the Tax Council does this once a year, but now we have an extraordinary situation where prices are rising dramatically. We've been up to 17 kroner. per I. It is true that prices have fallen a little again, but why doesn't the tax minister himself take back the power and say that the Tax Council is now setting a new rate? There are indeed many Danes out there who are experiencing a huge price increase now. Their economy is shrinking and perhaps it is not as much worth commuting from work as usual, which I agree is important that you can. Why not give them the certainty today that they say: do you know what we are going to visit it again; do we make a higher driving allowance now in this extraordinary situation? Well, why do we have to wait and let others discuss it? They cannot even make the decision, they must first discuss it. Why don't we just do it, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154844	I understand the question as follows: why do we not just dismantle the competence of the Tax Council in this regard and take action and do it ourselves? Well, now the Tax Council is taking an initiative and it's actually their own initiative and looking at this already on 22 March. I am quite happy about that, and I think it is positive that there is indeed a reaction. When the Tax Council fixes the remuneration and deduction once a year, they do so on the basis of how prices have been, which means that in the price fixed in November, I think it was, some of the price increases have been taken into account. It is clear that, unfortunately, in these days and weeks, because of the unfortunate situation in Ukraine, we are seeing massive price increases and also some fluctuations. Therefore, I am glad that the Tax Council looks at it, and since they do so, I think it is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154936	Thank you. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316154937	But instead of just saying that it's good that the Tax Council is looking For it's true that the Tax Council has set a rate in the best faith and best opinion in late November I think it was based on what the Council thought could be the price, but now something new has just happened: there has been war in Europe and prices have risen dramatically. It is clear that no one has been able to take that into account then, so it is obvious that we say to the Tax Council: Set a new rate that is more realistic, so that the Danes can be compensated for these high prices at least those who commute. We can then talk about whether the tax should also be reduced, but I think that is another discussion. Now it's the driving allowance we're focusing on here. But why not just say that the Tax Council must set a new rate? Why say it's okay for the council to discuss it? I mean, it's a little empty to say that you're glad they're just talking about it when the tax minister can just say that the council has to set a new rate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316155024	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316155025	Oh, well, the Treasure Council looks at this, and they do it once a year. It's not like it's just a single problem. Now they are doing so extraordinaryly on their own initiative. I have reason to be happy about that, and I think we all have. So it is strange, I think, to tell them that they should look at it by the way; that is to say, they are looking at it of their own motion. I think we should be careful here too. If we now look at the transport allowance alone as the only button that can be screwed on, in relation to the development that is going on, in the Danish economy, then I think we are looking a little blindly at it. After all, we are constantly looking at developments every day on a wide range of parameters, because it is a violent development that is taking place in these weeks that affects many Danes' economy, and therefore we are of course keeping a close eye on how things are going.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316155114	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316155115	I fully agree that we should look at it more closely and, among other things, look at it more closely. It was also a good idea to reduce the tax temporarily on petrol and diesel. But now it's kind of something else I've been focusing on in the question, so that it doesn't spread out too much, because then it's gonna be harder to get a conclusion on it. I just want to hear the minister: what if the Tax Council did not then they discussed it and thus found that they did not want it. If so, will the Minister of Taxation be willing to say that then we in the Danish Parliament will decide that the rate will have to be increased by DKK 1 or 2 or whatever it takes to compensate all the commuters out there so that it can still pay off to work. So what if the Tax Council doesn't choose?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316155155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316155156	It is quite fair that we stick to this so that we do not spread it too much regret. It is not to derail the fine question and the good debate. Now the Tax Council is looking at it, and then we have to get back to it, depending on what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316155212	Thank you to the Minister for Taxation, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Dennis Flydtkjær. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316155223	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go, Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316155252	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing here today helps to ensure that we move forward with our great ambitions in the field of CO2 With the bill, better opportunities are given for research and development projects in the field of CCS, and in addition, the proposal also allows the state to agree to these major permits, which hopefully come out in the North Sea for CCS, for the storage of CO2 So, all in all, it is a very good proposal that the Social Democratic Party supports.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316155404	Thank you to Mrs Paulin. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316155421	With this bill, we are finally making it possible to store CO2 in the Left, we believe that geological storage of CO2 is what the UN Climate Panel says. The IPCC says that the capture and storage of CO2 We are also in an energy crisis with Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and if that crisis is not to make the climate price even worse, we need to do something to reduce CO2 That is why we in the Left are also very positive about changing the underground law, so the storage of CO2 It also follows from the North Sea Agreement of 2020 and most recently from the CCS strategy of last year, which the Left is part of. In Denmark, with the North Sea and the oil fields that are soon exhausted, we have very good opportunities to store CO2 It also allows us to convert the existing oil and gas jobs into green jobs, and then it allows us to be a green forerunner in CCS. But that means that we must get started as soon as possible. I have to say here that we are somewhat concerned about the pace. The industry is ready. With the North Sea Agreement, we have already set aside 100 million. kr. Last year and this year to support development and demonstration projects for CO2 in the CCS strategy, we actually agreed that CO2 should be given, but unfortunately, the government is proposing that this bill should not enter into force until more than 3 months, i.e. not until 1 July 2022. This may not sound like such a long time, but as noted in the hearings, it presents some challenges in terms of being able to carry out demonstration projects in the autumn. Actors will not be allowed until after the summer break, and only then will they be able to find out on what terms the permit will be granted. This obviously means that there is a risk of delays and that we do not get started with full-scale CO2 When I notice this here, it is because unlike when we established ourselves as a pioneer in wind energy, we have a huge competition in the market for the storage of CO2 We are in a race for the green transition with our neighbouring countries in relation to developing technologies to capture and store CO2 This means that every second waste makes the industries that today live on oil and gas recovery worse. That is why we must act as soon as possible. In committee I would therefore like to ask whether we can bring forward the date of entry into force. Another point I note from the consultation answers is the ambiguity about the possibility of state participation in storage permits. There has been no political discussion about it, and this is a new point for the legislative proposal in relation to the legislative programme, and the draft law is also very unclear on the terms of state participation. In the CCS strategy, we agreed that the Minister should determine in the contract circle how to secure State revenue in connection with the exploitation of underground storage capacity. That is why we also support the fact that the state can participate in storage projects, but we are concerned that the draft law gives such a broad mandate to the Minister to lay down rules for state participation. We do not know how state participation will take place and under what conditions it will take place. It is clear that there is a need for clarity, both politically and also from the actors, about these conditions. I therefore hope that in committee we can clarify the essential and rather central issues of state participation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316155854	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we can thank the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur, I see in the Chamber, is from the Radical Left. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316155910	Thank you very much. With this proposal, we therefore make it possible to store CO2 We have in Denmark in the North Sea a suitable underground, and it is quite natural for me that we who have pumped oil up and burned it off and sent CO2 The United Nations Climate Panel says, among other things, that this storage of CO2 This can by no means be left alone, but it is also a component that needs to be included. So the Radical Left would like to support this proposal and would also like to agree to the Left's wish to look at an earlier entry into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316155950	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316160011	I think it's important to make it clear that this thing with CO2 is kind of the reason why we're taking it as an option. But we feel like we're in the Enhedslisten that this isn't going to be a sleeping pillow for not putting emphasis on other CO2 We have a critical approach to how much energy you need to use to capture this CO2 we have some terms, some conditions and some technique that can completely ensure that the CO2 There may be other actions like this. developing renewable energy or increasing the electrification of society, where we know a little more firmly what is going on. Here it is something that you use energy to pump into the underground. So CO2 In the negotiations we have had along the way, about CO2 2 When I think back to it, it was in some presentations that we got, in fact, more like a question of just having a call for tenders, and then one made it possible that there could be a CO2 I'm really happy that we're now having a bill that opens up this possibility that the state could be a major player in some company, which could then be purely state, or it could be a company together with others that can handle CO2 I also hope that we come up with that CO2 Germany pumping CO2 2 This perspective I think is actually very important. This could be something where we have some good learning opportunities. I also think it is essential that this CO2 downpumping does not happen to get the last oil up. That is what is happening elsewhere. This is not really clear from the draft law, but I really think it would be nice to clarify it, so this CO2 does not stand anywhere, as far as I can see, but I think it would actually be important for us to get that part clarified. So we still have such a slightly critical approach, especially when there are some things you cannot read. If we made it clear that we should not get the last oil up by pumping CO2 then I have sat and looked for whether this should be understood as being only out at sea when it is the Danish underground or whether it is also on the mainland. In fact, I still doubt whether this bill applies both at sea and on land. I think that is also important to clarify, because there could be some security that could be different, i.e. whether it is out at sea, where it is of course inappropriate if CO 2 2 so I think that clarification should be there. But we are, in fact, where we support this proposal without it being a Danish sleeping pillow.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316160427	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see any rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party; on the other hand, I see the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316160442	Thank you. After all, as has also been mentioned by the other rapporteurs, the draft law is about the storage of CO2 There is a broad discussion about how we are going to use less CO2 electric cars, electric heat pumps and other things that make us less dependent on oil and gas. Today we are pumping up a lot of oil both in the North Sea and elsewhere in the world, but try to think if you could fill CO2 That's not exactly what we're doing with this bill now, but it's after all the start of it. We're setting a framework to pump CO2 so that's why we can support this proposal. Then I have promised to say from the Conservatives that they support the bill, but have the same remarks and concerns as the Left has. Now it should be the rapporteur of the Left who should say so, but she forgot, so I have promised to pass on this message.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316160546	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. It is noted that the Conservative People's Party has made its views known through a few rapporteurs. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen
ParlaMint-DK_20220316160557	Thank you. New citizens can also support the bill. We think that CO 2 2 It is extremely sensible to launch research in that area, so we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316160616	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316160623	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill. It is of course a great pleasure that we have a wide range of opportunities to reduce our society's CO2 This is because it is technically possible to capture CO2 2 There is still a lot of development and research in this area to be able to do so in a cost-effective way, but before you can get started, we also need to have the opportunity to put it into the underground. Just one word about the hand-wringing approach that Enhedslisten has to the matter. It is something strange that for Enhedslisten it is not so good if we cannot use the green switch to limit us so, the restriction is the goal in itself. What is the problem with putting CO 2 2 2 The very limit is the goal in itself for the Enhedslisten, and that is why it is problematic if it cannot take place if we are not pressured to do so if there are other options available. The way to whip yourself, i.e. this desire that we should have a fight with our way of life at the moment... cost what it will cost us because we're just some machine stormers in the Enhedslisten, and it's just so great if we can make up with the way we live today... I don't share. And it is also gratifying that the Enhedslisten ends up voting in favour of this, because then you dare not be more reactionary than you have to vote in favour of this and I will also be pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316160833	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316160839	Well, I'd like to unfold it: When you're doing this CO 2 2 There's also an energy and resource consumption by transporting CO 2 So there's a total resource consumption by choosing this technique. There is my approach just that if you can use the same resources to set up more renewable energy or low energy saving measures in, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am actually more in favour of the choice of what to say: CO 2 2 That is what I tried to explain in my rapporteur's speech, and I hope that the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur can also see this: that we must be a little critical of how we use our resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316160941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316160941-2	Yes, we need to use the most effective methods to achieve our objectives, but there are some of the things we still want to do today, where we do not have as good an idea of how to do it without having a production process that emits CO2 So, if you say so. will create a tunnel under the Fehmarn Belt, which we are in the process of, where both cars and trains must be able to drive, then you need a lot of concrete. In order to make concrete, you have to have cement, and cement cannot be produced at the moment without having a CO2 So it's good that we can capture CO2 But there's the problem, of course, that Enhedslisten just says: Well then we just have to stop having a tunnel under Fehmarn Bælt. Then we should not build anything anymore except day care centres, because they are allowed to be built, even though there is also CO2 but all other construction must not take place if it involves a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220316161051	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316161052	I believe that if you look at the statistics, you will find that our constituents do not work exclusively in day-care institutions. We have a little more than that working there. I think that in the overall energy policy there is too much focus on all the new pyrolysis, large energy islands, hydrogen production, CO2 That's why I'm a little critical of this type of bill, just said as a good explanation to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316161127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316161128	Yes, but it's just striking that Enhedslisten is problematizing some parts of the building, namely the things that Enhedslisten won't build, and says that there's too much CO 2 2 That duality we can't relate to, because we have to say that we also have to find something so we can build a new Fehmarn connection, or so we can get some motorway in a place where there's congestion at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316161207	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then the SF rapporteur, Mrs Signe Munk, is ready. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316161216	Thank you. The whole problem in the climate crisis we are facing is that we are sending too many greenhouse gases into the air and there are two main ways of solving that problem. One is, of course, to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in broad terms, and the other is that we need to capture some of the CO2 stored. The bill here addresses an important first step to storing CO2 One element is that we can get a demonstration and development project started by the climate minister, who is empowered to initiate, so that we can actually find out how well the technology works, what it costs, and what scale it is that we can get CO2 The second element is also very important for SF and an important part of the discussions we have had in general in relation to using the North Sea underground for CO2 Therefore it is also important that the state can have the opportunity to participate in CO2 So overall it is a good bill that lies here and it supports SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316161348	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. I must now be sure that no more rapporteurs would like to speak on this first reading. I see no one who has not been given the floor. Then I can give the floor to the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316161406	Thank you to the President and thank the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law. We must take advantage of the opportunities in the underground to combat the climate crisis. The Danish underground is especially suitable for CO2 The treatment today is a step in the right direction. The aim of the bill is to support the development of CO2 With this bill, we are taking a step towards a conversion of the North Sea. The fact is that the Danish North Sea has been known especially for oil and gas production. The fact is also that burning fossil fuels has brought us into the climate crisis we are facing now. We must capture the CO2 and store it in the same underground, and it will create a new era in the North Sea. The people who have pulled up the oil and gas must turn the tap the other way and pump CO2 In this way we can also preserve and develop new green jobs. The bill we are discussing today is part of the legislative framework that needs to be put in place before the Danish Energy Agency can authorise demonstration and development projects. The bill contains two elements. Firstly, it provides an authorisation for the current climate minister to create a separate permit scheme for CO2 Since Denmark implemented the CCS Directive in 2011, Denmark chose not to distinguish between demonstration and development projects and other storage projects, for example. full-scale projects. The consequence is that there is the same set of rules for small demonstration projects and large full-scale projects. It makes it difficult to obtain permission to launch demonstration and development projects. This hampers the necessary research and development in the field of CO2 We are creating a less comprehensive licensing system for demonstration projects, but it ensures that it is still carried out environmentally, natural and safetyly. Secondly, with the bill, we provide the legal basis for possible state participation in CO2 There is currently no market for CO2 State and state companies can help to promote such a market. The draft law therefore suggests that it will be possible for the State to participate in CO2 Specifically, state participation can help promote technological development and drive investments that can support a development towards a market for CO2 In addition, State participation can provide the state with the opportunity to gain a share in the value creation that underground learning can bring about. It is important for me to make it clear with seven-inch nails that the bill does not establish a concrete model for state participation or whether there should be state participation in CO2 we have agreed that we will negotiate before the summer break. The law merely allows us to make that decision. We expect that CO 2 2 I welcome the interest that the Danish Parliament has expressed today in the draft law, and I look forward to the continuing constructive discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316161736	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316161801	The debate is open and the Socialist rapporteur is ready. Welcome to Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316161813	Thank you. With L 138, which we are discussing today, we adjust among other things. the open door system so that it is only possible to use the scheme up to 15 km from the coast. Sea areas further out will instead be reserved for government procurement. We have seen a rapid development in the prices of offshore winds, so it makes great sense to reserve the land for tender where we can also ensure that the economic interests of the state are taken into account. Fortunately, seafaring has become a very good business. In addition, the bill ensures that municipalities have veto rights on open door projects. It must create an early and constructive dialogue between the operators of renewable energy and the relevant municipalities. At the same time, it creates an incentive for VE developers to consider local needs, and I think that will create increased local acceptance when new wind turbines or solar cells are set up. Secondly, the draft law creates technology neutrality in the open door system. This means that you can test and establish renewable energy sources more easily, regardless of the technology involved. It makes very good sense that the system does not write off in advance, for example. installation of solar cells on water, which is a relatively new way of producing green power. Thirdly, the proposal provides for the abolition of relevant state area reservations, so that there will be more areas where renewable energy projects can be set up. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316161945	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316161952	Thank you very much for the floor. I will not repeat Anne Paulin's fine review of what the bill is about; I just want to note that the Left supports this bill and will note that some of what this bill is looking into are some of the relatively strong reactions that have been made to coastal offshore wind farms, where there have been relatively violent citizens' reactions, including reactions from municipalities. With this model, we agree that we have the possibility that municipalities within 15 kilometres of the coastline will have the opportunity to veto this, and we think that is a good way to deal with this. That at the same time we also choose to say that we have this technology neutrality is also very good, because the potential is probably that you will also be able to make solar energy on water and maybe combine it with wind turbines. In view of the situation in which we are looking into a supply crisis, one might say that this proposal may in fact limit the possibilities of raising renewable energy projects, and that is what I think one has to say: okay, then see how this is developing. But the reality is that we have had very few coastal projects that have been carried out in recent years and whether this will give a boost to the fact that something is actually going to happen can only show time, but we support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316162140	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the SF, and that is Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316162150	The proposal for a law, which is here, concerns the open door system, which is now actually a relatively old one, and it is clear what the draft law contains. To put it bluntly, the regulation we are making of the open door system is just one step on the way to establishing a clear framework for the development of offshore winds. After all, we are now setting a clear framework for open door projects to be coastal projects, and in reality we are probably formalising what has already delayed some projects out there, namely the right of the municipalities to say that this is a real right of veto. It has not been a great wish from the SF, but we accept, like, that it is part of the agreement. Unfortunately, we've just had to learn that it's hard to get these coastal wind turbine projects through. It is important to say that, within such a rather fine framework, the agreement still allows for without a re-examination, which will concern a right of veto for the municipalities. At the same time, the draft law also provides a framework for e.g.: liquid sun, which has not actually had a place in the legislation so far, and becomes part of this technology-neutral approach to open door projects. We think this is positive because there is no doubt that all the possibilities for types of VE technologies that come into play must be allowed to come into play, all the time it can help produce green power. When we look beyond the 15-mile limit set by this bill, we need a new, more efficient and faster expansion of sea winds. It will not be under the open door system, but, as far as we are concerned, we need to look at new sea wind supply models beyond the 15-kilometre limit, where we will also have more market-driven offshore wind turbines. This is among other things. Some of what we believe is absolutely crucial to discuss in the forthcoming negotiations on an energy and supply package to be negotiated this spring. So it's important to say that this bill is a step on the road to the coastal offshore winds we still need, but it's not the keystone of the sea winds development that will be beyond the 15-mile limit. It's important for SF to say in this context. Overall, we support the draft law and we are also part of the agreement behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316162503	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I would like to welcome the next rapporteur from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316162514	Thank you very much. The Radical Left can also support the proposal. I fully agree with the SF rapporteur and the other rapporteurs who have been up here that we must admit that the right of objection granted to open door projects by municipalities has practically been a right of veto and that very few of them have been raised in recent times. Now we're gonna formalize that part of it. It is important for me to repeat what the SF also said, namely that repowering is not affected by this, and that in existing projects, where the mills are gradually growing old and earned, new ones can be set up. So it is not the elimination of coastal winds, but it means that the municipalities will have the opportunity to veto it in future. I also quite agree that this is not the same as not putting mills on water in the future, and that the tender model for how to actually recover our North Sea is one of the major outstanding issues. But it doesn't have much to do with this bill. Radicals support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316162610	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316162621	This right of veto for municipalities in relation to installations up to 15 km from the coast has not been our priority, but when this bill is adopted, we are in a situation where those project makers who would like to have set up something have to have a good process in which they gain support in local communities. And that can be done because, for example, when you do... Going to Hanstholm you can see that there are a few mills at Hanstholm Harbour, and it is so very close to the coast, so it has been possible to do so. So I very much hope that there are some major players out there who might learn from the projects that gain support so that we can get some more coastal projects up and running. Then I have noted that there are some who point out in the hearings that now we are adopting a power-to-x strategy and there will be a possibility that we can get some lines from some wind turbines and directly into a hydrogen plant. I do not think that the rules should be automatically relaxed because something new is emerging, but we are in a new situation with the war in Ukraine and with the need to phase out Putin's gas and with the need we have for more renewable energy, and that is why it is the Enhedslisten's approach that we are so open to looking at all options. Therefore, there could also be something in the agreement that has been reached in the past that we need to re-evaluate in order to arrive at more renewable energy. What is stated in the consultation note is quite correct, where reference is made to an agreement that we have been involved in concluding, yes, that is the case, but it could nevertheless lead to conditions that should be relaxed. I think it is a good thing to see that there are no obstacles in relation to recycling and extension of lifespan. I myself feel that the Middelgrundens Vindmøllelaug seems to me to be more important than the Little Mermaid, if you are to see what is really important for Denmark. So it's really good to see that if you just want to make a repowering without it being much bigger mills, it can be done and that it doesn't require legislative changes. Then, like opening up, there may be certain solar installations on lakes. I do not think that this draft law is quite clear on what applies to the possibilities for setting up solar installations in some future low bottom areas. If we have this in this bill, is there a corner that needs to be clarified? These could be low bottom areas where there is no water all year round. Is this something that is covered by this bill, or is it only on something that is permanent lakes? Maybe it'd be nice enough just to get a hit. But as it all is, the Enhedslisten supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316162941	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316162956	Thank you. After all, this bill follows up on the climate plan for energy and industry from 2020, when we agreed to adjust the open door system. We also mentioned at the time that we should bear in mind that we are not doing it too rigidly, because it is important that we look at the interaction between municipalities and states and look at plans to develop the VE. We tried to push a little bit in relation to this distance limit, but it's pretty firm. We are now looking at whether we should bring the scheme back to its objective of promoting small and coastal projects. Open door projects of up to 15 km from the coast can now be applied for and the scheme made technology neutral. This allows new technologies to be tested in the open door system. Well, that's actually good, but then there's just one but. We are in a situation now where Denmark and Europe need an accelerated RE expansion, and where Danish politicians have the prospect of a lack of green current until 2030. We need to look at how we can develop as much as possible. We have also tabled a motion for a resolution on this in the past, in relation to what our plan is for the development of renewable energy sources. But we don't have to be pale to go back and adjust sometimes. We may have agreed something a year ago, but the transition to green energy is moving very quickly, and in relation to the events we are seeing around us, with Ukraine, Russian gas and the whole of Europe, which are in fact united in wanting to phase out Russian gas, there is a great need right now for us to speed up the green transition. After all, we in the Conservative People's Party would like to see a market-driven expansion, including in relation to sea winds, because that is what can be scaled. That is all it is about, that is to say, it needs to be speeded up and up in gear. It's important that we have a strategy and a plan for this. And with this bill, you can say a little bit that if there is something that should be adjusted in this, that is clearly what the political objective and strategy for offshore winds in Denmark is. We think that's a little missing from this, and you could get that into this bill. The second is that it is possible to put an end to this rapid and effective expansion of the market-driven offshore wind farm, and this therefore has some economic and socio-economic consequences. Yesterday we adopted a power-to-x agreement, and although we made an opportunity in that agreement for what we call direct lines, we also have to look at how it will be linked to this, also in relation to the possibility of coastal projects, such as the Channel Tunnel. is connected to power-to-x. After all, we need to see things more in context when we talk about green conversion and energy. Then there is the municipal right of veto. It is, of course, important that we have municipal autonomy, but again we may also need to take up this hierarchy of plans and see how we can create incentives for the municipalities that hold it to have an interest in doing so. I was just talking to the mayor of Bornholm here earlier this afternoon, who is following this closely. He said that we would like to do something, but it might also be possible to get some education and skills in the field of green energy; then it would also be a little easier to answer to the citizens in relation to where we drive it. Instead of making legislation for one thing and doing it for the next thing, that is, where we cut it out into nice pieces like the pie that was served just before at Søren Pape Poulsen's 50th birthday reception, maybe we should try to put it together a little more together in a whole and see how these things play together. We very much hope that we will be able to do that here in committee, because we think that there are some things here that could be sharper, also in relation to our vision: where do we want to go? How do things play together? And how do we get all the municipalities? You can understand that many will say no, but it is also because they do not really have a picture of how big the mills are and what it means if they get close. Someone said: I just need to see it, to visualize it, to what kind of mill of 270 m looks like, and to what extent it means whether it is 10 km or 8 km away? Obviously, it's hard to imagine. I couldn't give him an answer either. Nor do I know what that will mean in concrete terms. So I think we're doing a little more homework than getting this rolled out and looking at how it's gonna work in practice. So in those words, I look forward to the further examination of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316163441	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316163449	Thank you. After all, the aim of the bill is to strengthen municipal support for smaller renewable energy plants. It can be solar power plant, or it can be wind farms or coastal wind farms. And I think that the most important element of this bill is that the municipalities will not only have the right to object to the large energy plants, but will actually be allowed to say no if they do not want them. I think that is a good guarantee on behalf of the citizens, who can be such a lightning conductor, by putting a stop to the projects against which there will be great local opposition. I myself was elected in the Ringkøbing-Skjern circle, which is where Vesterhavns South lies, and I have seen the resistance. Of course, there are also some who have supported it, but at least, no matter what, it has resulted in a huge division of the population, because there have been very divided opinions about this facility, and there I think it might have been good if, after all, there were some local representatives who could decide whether or not you liked it and if you were unhappy with it, you could choose someone else for the city council. So I think it is very good that we are giving the municipalities this opportunity, and also that this so-called open door system is now being extended, so that it also applies to coastal projects, and that this right of veto also exists there, so that the municipalities can say no if they so wish. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I think we should be careful when we say 0-15 km. I believe that many people can live with a wind turbine plant which is 15 km out; it is, after all, quite a long way. But with this, it could also be 500 meters out, and it could also be 1 km out. Well, I remember that when you made the Vesterhav South, you said, I think it should be between, it was 3 km and 20 km, and then it was funny enough 3 km, because that is where it is, of course, most profitable to make it as close to the coast as possible. So when you just say 0-15 km, it probably gets closer to 0 km than it does at 15 km, and I just think you should be aware of that, because it can have quite big both visual, noise and other genes you have to decide on. But hopefully this right of veto can then help to slow down those things that do not make sense, i.e. if it gets too close to the coast and bothers too many people. But the Danish People's Party is part of this agreement, and I think it's good that we get this right of veto, so we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316163658	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316163704	Thank you. The former rapporteurs have explained the content of the draft law, which we support. So new citizens can back the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316163716	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316163723	Thank you. The Liberal Alliance also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316163729	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then I do not see any more rapporteurs who have asked to speak, and so I can give the floor to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316163744	Thank you. Let me start by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. The green transition requires green power, large amounts of green power. And while state offshore wind power supply can and must constitute one of the primary sources of the green current, we need all good contributions, including from private individuals who wish to establish coastal winds in Danish waters on their own initiative. That is why we are today taking an important step towards ensuring the future of the open door system for renewable energy installations at sea, established outside supply. With the bill on the adjustment of the open door system, we keep the door open for smaller coastal projects that can gather local support. The draft law aims to strengthen municipal support for smaller coastal renewable energy installations, to support effective state planning in relation to the sea area and to ensure technology neutrality for renewable installations at sea, so that new technologies can also be tested and established under the scheme. People's support for the green transition is crucial. And when citizens are concerned about what VE projects will mean for their local area, the concerns we need to take seriously are those that we have to take seriously. At the same time, the green transition requires all sources of VE to be in play, but the conversion must be done with respect for local environments and neighbors. That is why the bill introduces a municipal veto right for municipalities with a coastline of up to 15 km from an open door project. The Veto law aims to encourage an earlier dialogue between operators and local communities so that projects can be adapted and obtained greater local acceptance. Furthermore, with the adjustment of the open door system, we are creating clearer rules for the market, specifying when the state can reject projects for planning and social reasons, and introducing a distance limitation, so that projects will be set up within 15 km of the coast in the future. At the same time, the distance limitation means that we can abolish relevant state land reservations, which today constitute a limitation of the scheme and which are at risk of slowing down coastal offshore wind projects with local support. The technology development in green energy is moving incredibly fast these years, and market players have therefore expressed a strong desire to be able to establish and test new technologies through the scheme. We have listened to this, and we are now doing the legislative proposal that the scheme becomes technology-neutral, so that, for example, in the future. Also, it will be possible to establish liquid solar installations at sea via the scheme. In this way, the scheme is assured of the future and we ensure that it can help support future technology developments for the benefit of the green transition in Denmark and globally. Finally, I would like to thank you for your interest in the draft law and look forward to the committee's examination of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316164047	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316164053	Thank you. The fact that we are now going to have to deal with that popular support and all sources are going to have to play with regard to the expansion of renewable energy, I agree with the Minister. And I stand by the fact that we have a political agreement which is clearly referred to. But we are also in a current situation where we have to phase out the imported gas and we are looking into the fact that for several reasons we need more renewable energy and that we therefore need as much as possible and perhaps need to re-evaluate some things. I think it is interesting, for example. At Hanstholm Harbour can arrive to set up some mills for which there is support. I also note that the mill project at Omø has not, as it were, vetoed by any municipalities and that this project is in fact very far off. I have not heard the very last news, but it seems as if it is actually where it is the European Union and some ministers who cannot fully achieve that project. Is there any news that we could come to the conclusion that the Omøvindmill project became a reality?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316164206	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316164207	No, that is, there is no final decision yet. It's an authority decision. It is clear that this is very much about EU legislation, but I do not think that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is perfectly fair if he presents it as if it depends on the EU and some ministers. Firstly, there are no ministers in this resolution, and secondly, there are, in fact, many other critical voices from stakeholders, to which I think the rapporteur usually listens, namely conservation associations and the Danish Ornithological Association and others, who are very concerned that we compromise on nature protection. Personally, I take the view that we will probably have to find a slightly better balance than the one that is present right now between VE legislation and nature protection legislation on the part of the European Union, since I believe that a greater degree of coexistence is actually possible and that renewable projects can be carried out so that this can actually help to promote biodiversity in some places.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316164301	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316164302	I am listening to everyone, including green organisations, but right in the Omø project, I think that the right balance is lacking so that it can be realised. But there was actually another aspect I wanted to hear about, because now we are opening up for solar installations at sea. I would really like to know if we have looked into it well enough. Well, what can the negative consistently be of it? I think I have a little difficulty in assessing from the legislative proposal whether it has been clarified well enough. Does the Minister think that this has been clarified well enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316164341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316164341-2	No, I don't think you can say it's yet. That's one of them. an example of the fact that it is probably very good that we have different rules to ensure environmental assessments of VE projects as well, which is perhaps a little paradoxical that the questioner is bringing up, because the questioner, as it sounds, wants the Omø project through no matter what. I would also very much like to see the Omø project through, but of course not if it means that we are running a red light in relation to some EU rules that are, of course, there to ensure biodiversity. I therefore believe that, with the enormous expansion of energy production from offshore winds that we need in the coming years, we need to find a solution that also takes account of birds and also takes account of biodiversity in general. Otherwise, we risk doing very much damage. So it must be a balancing act, and we must, of course, follow the legislation in force. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316164426	Thank you, Minister. Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316164444	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316164503	Thank you. We have been gathered many times over the last few years to discuss various things in the school field that relate to the pandemic and the very unusual situation we have faced. Today, I believe that we will not need the big arm movements or the big discussions or anything else. On the other hand, what we want to change with this bill is extremely important for the sector. It is about the fact that the education cancelled at the beginning of the year, in January and February, because a lot of people had been affected by the covid-19, should not be obtained in contrast to a hunch of teachings that have been pushed in front of them so that you can concentrate in the schools on what is really the most important thing right now, namely to make the best possible education for the children and young people you have in the schools, and I am really, really glad that there is a broad majority for that. It can be said that in a broad community we have taken up this challenge, while at the same time we have faced the very difficult situation of covid-19, and that with great involvement of the sector we have found a solution, and I would be glad that we can also maintain that cadence in cooperation when we hope to see the pandemic slipping off. So the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316164638	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and this is where Kenneth Mikkelsen is. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316164645	Thank you. Unfortunately, the rapporteur of the Left on this bill could not be in the Chamber today, so I have promised to read the rapporteur's speech. In addition, I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they feel fully covered by the rapporteur's speech today. After all, it's been about two years since the famous press conference we're going to call it that in the Prime Minister's Office, where the government shut Denmark down for the first time. It has been 2 years hard years for all Danes, but there is no doubt that our children and young people in particular have been affected by the corona closures. It is said that two years is such a fingertip for the elderly, but an eternity for children and young people, and that is probably very accurately described in the situation here. Schools, leisure facilities, social activities have been closed down, and for long periods young people have had to live with the uncertainty of when to see friends, classmates, teachers and many others again. The 2 hard years have, of course, left their mark on Danish children and young people who, unfortunately, are miserable as never before; that is at least what Children's Conditions, Children's Phone and the Danish Health Authority and others from studies tell us. Our children and young people need to return to a firm and secure everyday life and to be able to say a final farewell to pandemics and restrictions, including to changed schedules and replacement hours. Therefore, this bill is a natural consequence of the last two years, we should call it chaos, because with the end of the special law at the turn of the year, yes, then online teaching and cancelled hours are now again subject to the general rules that one-to-one replacement hours should be held for the cancelled or online course. But this is probably the last thing our children and young people need right now, and so the whole education sector is tired too, we could call it, after two years, when everyone has been running really, really fast. That is why extra lessons are needed most of all during evening hours, weekends, spring public holidays and other activities. It would be anything but positive, yes, rather a long corona detention, one could call it if all the hours canceled one by one were to be completed evenings and weekends. So the Left also supports L 144. For the Left, it is primarily about the well-being of our children. Children and young people in Danish schools need to move on and use the energy properly. It is this bill that is based on a broad political agreement with all the parties of the Folketing, helping to secure. It goes without saying that the proposal also benefits municipalities and schools as well as teachers and parents who also need to return to a normal everyday life and look forward. We hope and expect that the country's talented primary school teachers will catch up with what can be obtained this spring, and that, at the same time, the schools will give priority to the provision of adequate education for graduates towards the end of their schooling. As most people know, this is an extraordinary situation. It is not practical to close off the hours cancelled without harming the well-being of children and young people; it is the balance between, on the one hand, the prescribed hours, which of course should normally be held, and then the welfare of children. Against this background, the Left can support the proposal. And let me remind you again of what I said at the outset, namely that the Conservative People's Party also supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165027	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. It is noted that there was a greeting from the Conservatives. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party. It's Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165038	The SF's quite excellent rapporteur in this area could not be here today, so the House must thank you. The draft law we are discussing today provides for the possibility of excluding replacements of cancelled teaching hours as a result of the covid-19. And that's something we in the SF have been pushing for. It is important for schools that the hours cancelled should not be replaced, because it will push the teaching and the pupils even more. They have already been under enormous pressure, and if you had to have a lot of replacement hours, that would mean even more unreasonable pressure. That's why we're happy in the SF that this bill can ease the pressure. At the same time, the absence of staff has been high in many schools, and this has created severe pressure on staff resources. The uncertainty about how to deal with this in the future has created very great uncertainty in schools, and it is precisely an uncertainty that we are pleased to be able to remove now. Children and young people in schools have sacrificed heavily during the covid-19. We have, among other things. It is clear from the large increase in dissatisfaction among children and young people. Overburdening them with many extra replacement hours will push them even more in relation to the thriving. For this reason, we in the SF are pleased that the Minister has listened to us, but in particular also to the teachers, the school leaders and the pupils, so that the schools can now focus with calmness on catching up in an appropriate way without increasing the pressure. That's why the SF backs the bill. This is good for the staff and for the children and young people in the schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165222	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165230	Thank you. After all, it is almost impossible for students to have another year with corona, and we just have to do everything we can to make it possible for the rest of the school year to have room for the community, to be together and to immerse ourselves in the subjects and not just such a neck after and training for the exam. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank you for the various agreements we have made, both on the summer rehearsals, but also on this agreement, which is, of course, about not having to replace all the hours that have been lost, as the other rapporteurs have also mentioned. When I liked to run down the hearing answers we got, I was stunned that the Danish Teacher's Association has written three lines where they express their satisfaction with it. I just don't think I've ever seen that before, that is, they could make it so short. So in this way I would just like to join on behalf of the Radical Left in welcoming the fact that, as I said, schools do not need to replace the hours they have lost.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165330	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165343	Thank you. As has been shown by previous rapporteur speeches, the aim of the draft law here is to deal with the problems that, unfortunately, in this school year too, have hit the country's educational institutions because of the corona. The level of infection, and hence the absence, has been so high during periods, not least in January and February this year, that it has not been possible to prevent a large number of lessons being cancelled. This has created difficulties in meeting the time limits laid down in the legislation to an extent that has not really been possible to replace them. Therefore, it is in all its simplicity and I can perhaps say it almost as briefly as I can understand the Danish Teacher's Association has done a bottom-up task for us to adjust the legislation so that we do not require that a great burden of extra teaching should be placed on the students for the rest of the year. So Enhedslisten can agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165448	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165457	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party can also support the bill, and I am not going to repeat what my good colleagues have said about the bill itself, but actually only say something about how it came about, namely that it is the School Leader Association and the Danish Teachers' Association that have addressed us, which is an expression of the good cooperation established between the Ministry, the Conciliation Party and the relevant parties. After all, the minister has a great honour to have established collaboration on the school, which, in large and small terms, turns out to have really good effects on the work of the Danish Parliament, not just on this bill, but in general. I think it is good for the primary school, I think it is good for the children, I think it is good for the teachers, I think it is good for the students, and it is particularly good for us here in the Folketing that we are now working with the school partners and that they are working with us instead of having been at war for many years. I have said before, but I actually think we should keep reminding each other that what has happened is a good thing. This is good for the legislative work. It gets better. They don't always get right. They don't influence everything, but they have influence, and this bill shows that they have. I hope, of course, that it will continue in the years to come, but much is often dependent on individuals, but when individuals pull the same hammer, it is that you suddenly get the good cooperation climate, and I really just want to praise the Minister for that. The Minister has great honour in this and I have dreamt for many years that we have this cooperation. We can see that in those countries where stakeholders cooperate with politicians, there is also a well-functioning school system. That is simply so crucial. And if I may end with a little story about a Romanian delegation that had gone to Denmark. Along with Mr. Knox. Sten Knuth met with the delegation because they were interested in hearing a little about the primary school and the reforms. I tried to tell relatively neutrally and objectively what I thought of it, both good and bad, but one of the things I said to those who were important was that they involved teachers and school partners, because the big mistake we made in the past was that we suddenly got into trouble with them, and that's never good. I have met some of these Romanian parliamentarians in later contexts, and they have told me that they have already involved Finland and their experiences and are implementing some of the things and cooperation that have made it work so well in Finland. So why am I really telling you this? It's just a small bill, but I think it's important that we remind each other that it's a cooperative folk government, not only here, but outside the Folketing. The Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165826	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165834	Thank you. In New Citizens, we do not support the bill. We basically believe that after this corona period we have seen quite a massive misfortune, because the children have been repatriated far too much, i.e. a huge backwardness in terms of well-being, but we are actually seeing a professional backlog. And I think it is quite natural that the children who have missed some teaching, either because the teachers have been ill or because they have shut down, in other words completely out of proportion to what was, are also entitled to the education they have missed. So in New Citizens, we don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165926	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Excuse me, I have to ask the rapporteur to come back. I had overlooked the fact that there is indeed a request for a brief comment, and that is what Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left, said. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165939	I just want to ask New Citizens: When are the students going to have the extra education?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165948	During spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165954	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165956	Does New Citizens imagine that it should be on weekends or in continuation of school day, or what are New Citizens thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316165959	It will be up to the individual school how to organize it. I think it's quite natural. We were opposed to the pretty massive shutdown. We also voted against the emergency law which made it possible to close schools in the autumn, which was unfortunately the case again. There's been a lot of things about this corona management that's been completely out of proportion. The children have been kept at home from school where it has not been necessary at all. Now these children are left with a rather large backlog, including in terms of education. I think they are entitled to that kind of teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316170033	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then there are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, and I do not see any more rapporteurs from other parties wishing to speak. So I can give the floor to the Minister for Children and Education. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316170044	Thank you. And thank you for your support for this proposal. I shall not go very far, but I have to say that the hearings have indicated that there is a problem with the private schools. What has been our intention on the part of the Ministry, when we have written it in the way we have done, has actually been to stress that there will not be a whole lot of commitment in private schools either; so that was actually the parallelism that was to be created. So I just want to make it clear from the platform, and I have done so earlier today, also to the public school conciliation circle, that we will, of course, have that made clear so that the misunderstanding is not there. So it has actually been a question of trying to ensure that everyone has the same freedoms, that it is written in that way. In addition to that, I would like to thank Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen for the words. I also believe that the cooperation we have had is extremely important, both between parties and under corona. I also think that today's talk in the Chamber shows this, in other words there is a widespread degree of consensus. I was sitting there thinking that, considering how many conversations we've had, this is somehow gonna be the end of them. There has been an incredible number of conversations between the parties during our meetings and individually between the parties, and it typically culminates in the fact that we then make legislative proposals. But there is a long process going on ahead, which I think is so infinitely important for what we get done. And it is quite right that the proposal we are debating today has been brought to us politicians from the parties with a great desire that we should not be allowed to push a teaching hump in front of ourselves into a huge nuisance to the working environment in schools and, moreover, to inconvenience the pupils, who would then have to run for afternoon and evening classes, weekend lessons and anything else at a time when there is simply a need for calming down. I also think it is important to dwell on this form of cooperation, and it is my great hope that we can maintain it. And it is quite true that this does not mean that we agree on everything because then there was no need for that forum at all, and then you could just do things. There is a need for this forum because there will necessarily be different perspectives on things, whether you are a student or a teacher, or you are a leader, or you are a municipality, and of course the different perspectives must be at the table and meet with each other. I think that one of the most interesting things that happens in space is to hear the reflections of the parties on each other's views; for one thing is to hear the views of them one could also look up in the press, and they get a little deeper when we have a meeting about them but to hear how they reflect on each other's views is very often what crystallises the good solutions. And, of course, it goes without saying that when the public school circle sits with the different views there are, I think we get some reflections that reach levels quite different from what we do in the way we have otherwise run things. I haven't held a single meeting during Corona and we have certainly held many of them, both with stakeholders and the political follow-up group where we haven't subsequently fixed things. So if you're wondering if listening to each other is any use, all you have to do is look at the dosmers I've made afterwards, with changes to things, compared to how else we would have done it. So when there are consultation answers now with three lines from the Danish Teacher's Association, it is because a lot of the process has been chewed through in the collaboration we have been running with each other, and I think that is very satisfactory. They're allowed to make long hearings, everything's fine. But it reflects that we have an exceptionally good cooperation in these times, and that's good. So something good has come out of the coronate. Thank you very much to the parties of the Danish Parliament for supporting this process, because it also requires us to stand together on this or else we would be on the same level. So thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316170427	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister from Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316170431	I would just like to say a few words of thanks for the comments on free schools and private schools, because, of course, we are not going to tamper with and regulate how many lessons they should have, and that is why I just think it is good that the Minister himself says this. I also see that we are, of course, in the process of fixing things, and that is why I did not say anything about them in my speech. So just thank you for making it so clear to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316170453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316170455	Indeed, it was precisely because both Mrs Lotte Rod and other rapporteurs have brought up with me when dealing with the legislative proposal that there was a problem. Therefore, I just thought that now I would also give such a binding commitment that we would accommodate you in relation to the objections that have been raised. And we are in the process of finding a technical solution to how we do that. However, just for saying from here too that it is the intention that we should resolve this issue in this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316170525	Thank you, Minister. Then there are no further brief comments to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316173005	The sitting is resumed. We shall now return to the item on the agenda, item 1, which is the third reading of L 145. This point can only be dealt with with in this sitting with the agreement of the House, and therefore consent to this paragraph must be voted on. There shall be: Paragraph 42 of the Rules of Procedure three-quarters majority for such consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316173033	A vote can be taken. That concludes voting time. In favour, 99 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG) and Lise Bech (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The consent is granted. That is why we can now go to the third reading of L 145.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316173101	Amendments have been tabled. The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten, does. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316173123	Thank you. I am taking the floor now because I think we need an answer from the Foreign Minister as to why the government will not support the alternative funding we are proposing from the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Radical Left. It is funding that means that the world's poor do not have to pay for the world's refugees, and frankly, I think that the Minister must come up here and explain why the government is so firm that the people in the world who are most poor must finance those who have the most difficulty right now because of Putin's war. Frankly, I think that the government can come up here and stand up for why there is no alternative funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316173219	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. But the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316173238	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Danish Parliament for a very qualified political discussion of this bill, despite the fact that it has been put forward and drafted in haste. So thank you to all the parties that have been part of the political discussion, and I guess that is actually all the parties of the Folketing. I would also like to say that yesterday we crossed three million Ukrainians who have been expelled from Ukraine. There are also several million internally displaced persons in Ukraine, and we are still in a situation where many of the Ukrainian cities, including Kyiv, are holding out. This could go completely wrong. A little over half of the people who have left Ukraine have gone to Poland, and the Polish authorities say that the first Ukrainians had an idea of where they were going. Not only were they on the run from something, but they also had an idea of where they were going. This is partly due to the fact that more than one million Ukrainians already live in Poland, so people have friends and acquaintances there, and that is the same thing we have seen in Denmark. Many of the Ukrainians who have come here live in private with friends, acquaintances, family or their family's employer. Many live in agriculture in Denmark. But what the Polish authorities are saying now is that the next waves coming out of Ukraine are more people moving away from anything than on their way to something. These are old-fashioned refugees, you might say, people who just have to get away from the bombs, and that also means that my best assessment is and the best assessment by the authorities is that we will see the biggest refugee disaster of displaced persons on the European continent since the end of the Second World War. It can be very, very violent, and what we are discussing in Denmark today can be a first step on a very long journey. It is not to ignore the fact that there is a huge need for funding to get this bill through between 2 billion. and 2.5 billion. kr. And it is not to neglect the political discussion that Enhedslisten is raising, but it is just to say that this is a very comprehensive situation we are in. Hopefully, when the law is passed shortly, the immigration authorities will start issuing residence permits, and we will be looking for the first one to be issued here this weekend, and then we have made an agreement with the Municipalities' Association that people will be placed around Denmark within 4 days, and then we will see that the Danes will have new colleagues, that the children will have new schoolmates, and that there may be a Ukrainian name when we are down to deliver the kids in the day care room. From a few days away, Danish society will have what I consider to be the greatest integration task this country has ever had. It's going to be very extensive. So it is in that context, and it is with that backdrop that I also ask that we discuss how we finance this bill, and yes, it is true that we are proposing that just over 2 billion. kr. to be used in the territory of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. They are transferred from an account which belongs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it is for the purpose that we are using the technical concept of DAC, as we have been doing since 1992. I think it is also clear to me that the many thousands of Ukrainians who have now come to Denmark, the vast majority of whom have entered without seeking asylum, but with visa-free access to Denmark, if we did not have this special law, would still have to apply for asylum when their visas expire in 90 days. They would still have to be in our asylum centre system, they would have to have provided interpreters, lawyers and accommodation, we would risk having thousands of people living in the Danish asylum system. That would be completely true and would mean that we would have very long procedural times, and we also have a bottleneck in relation to how many lawyers we have who are able to represent people, how many judges we have there are able to make decisions in the Refugee Board, and how many interpreters we have able to make qualified interpretations both orally and in writing. So it would be extremely expensive if people were to live in the asylum centre system. So it is also for the reasons we need to get those residence permits written so that people can get out quickly. And if people were to be in the asylum centre system, we would also have to pay those costs with the existing practice, and they would also have to be DACed. This also means that they would form part of the development framework. It is quite legitimate for the Enhedslisten to say that it is a political choice if you want to DAC them, and I agree with Enhedslisten. I would just like to say in all silence that it is not the case that there is just a free lunch somewhere else. But then we have to find billions of dollars somewhere else on the Danish Finance Act, and there it is at least the attitude of the government and it is a political attitude that we also think it is politically reasonable that it is financed within the framework of development aid. For many years we have had record low asylum rates and this has meant that very, very little money from the Danish spending framework has gone to finance refugee reception. Now we are in the second situation, and now I hope that the Danish Parliament will vote down the amendments and support the government in that it is fair that development policy should now also stand by in the very extraordinary situation we are in now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316173803	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister. The first one's from sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316173811	I think everyone in this room is aware of how serious this is and how serious it can be. Everyone is aware that the 20,000 people are the expression of a shot that may not hold true at all. It can go either way, it can go crazy. And as one of the employees of a ministry said, what if there's 100,000? I am pleased that the Minister says that money from the Ministry of the Interior, money from the Ministry of Finance can be included as development aid under the DAC rules. All that talk about DAC nobody understands, outside this hall, and probably not in this hall either, I've heard. The DAC rules mean that it is supposed to be development aid, and it is reasonable that the framework should be extended at a time when the world is completely upside down. I would like to ask the Minister: the 18 billion. kr. to more military is partly financed by loans. In four days, you could snap your fingers, and the money was in place. Corona expenditure is partly financed by loans. What is the reason why the poorest people in the world have to pay for these expenses?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316173924	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316173925	I would like to start by saying that I understand the rhetoric, but in reality it is the Danes who pay, no matter how we turn and turn the plate. It is the Danes who pay for development policy; it is Denmark that will pay for strengthening our defence; and it is the Danes who will pay for receiving the Ukrainians. And that's no matter how you turn it. Then it is true that the government, together with several other parties in the Folketing, has a desire that we spend significantly more money on our defences, and that is because security and peace in Europe come with a price, and we have not paid the price as we should, yet we will. And it will also cost Danish society. It is true that you can borrow money, but you cannot only borrow money. We also need to make economic priorities, and here we think it is right that some 2 billion should now be spent out of the overall development framework. kr. to the reception of displaced persons on our own continent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174026	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174027	Well, the awful thing is, among other things, that this money is committed in this financial year. Now they have to be swept away from these projects, and then there is another question: why does the government not want to negotiate this time with the people who are behind them, for example? the development strategy? You do not want to negotiate, you want to inform. Previously, in 2015, and during the corona, we negotiated and tried jointly to find the expenditure in development aid that hit the least hard. Why wouldn't you want to? Why are you so self-conscious that you say, "We're gonna take care of this ourselves?"
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174107	Following on from what the Minister for Development has already said, I can say that he will, of course, keep the rapporteurs closely informed about the actions taken by the Minister for Development.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174128	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174130	Thank you. We are in the greatest refugee crisis since the Second World War, and for that very reason, Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, we are not going to fund this agreement by saving money on development aid. It is precisely because we are in the greatest crisis. This simply does not make any sense and I do not buy the Minister's explanation. It is true that it will be cheaper in the eyes of the goose compared to development aid, the sooner people get out of the asylum system. We are very much in favour of this in the Enhedslisten, i.e. short-term procedures, access to education and access to the labour market, but if that is the argument, Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye, this should apply to all refugees, not just those on this special law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174213	I would ask Mrs Rosa Lund to remember to address the Minister as Minister. Here you go to the Minister for Reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174219	I have heard the argument that then we could just decide that everyone seeking asylum has the right to the Danish education system and the Danish labour market from day one. I would warn against this, because I fear that it will mean significantly higher asylum rates in Denmark. If people know that merely arriving in Denmark and using the right of asylum... so seek asylum, whether you have a need for protection or not... makes it possible to work down in Kickly and send the kids to high school, I fear that we will get very high asylum rates. So for this reason, I think we need to stick to the fact that the work permit and the possibility of full access to the Danish education system require an assessment of whether you have a need for protection and that you have a residence permit. With regard to the Ukrainians, I am pleased that there is very broad support in the Folketing for us to give them a residence permit quickly. It is a residence permit that will give them roughly the same rights as other refugees who are in Denmark, but they will get it quickly without an individual right of asylum assessment. It is so extensive that our asylum system would be true because so many people are coming at the same time. It is, moreover, a decision that we take in line with all other EU countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174331	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174332	After all, in the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Radical Left, we have put forward a very specific amendment on where the money can be taken from. We're not suggesting that we just sit down and find this money somewhere weird. We are pointing to some very specific points that we think the government should agree with, because it is money that goes from the corona effort, which is no longer needed, and money that goes from the defence agreement that has just been made, which states precisely that money must be spent on humanitarian aid. That is why it still makes no sense to me for the Minister to insist that it is the poorest in the world who have to pay for this agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174416	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174417	As I also said in my opening speech, I fully acknowledge that this is a political choice. There's no automatic here. And the government has decided with open eyes to spend more money on defense. We do so with open eyes, because we believe that it is right for Denmark that we get up to 2%. of our gross domestic product. We also think it is right that the development framework should be revised downwards by 2 billion. kr. for the purpose of receiving the Ukrainians. It's not a mistake. It happens with completely open eyes. That is our policy. There is a majority in favour of this in the Folketing and therefore we see no reason to move away from that position.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174453	The next brief remark is on Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174457	I would like to thank the Minister for standing up and telling him that, of all the possibilities that existed, the government chooses with open eyes that it is then the world's poorest that must hold so that we can welcome the Ukrainians. In any case, it is open and not, as has been said in the past, that it is like something that is automatic. What I want to ask is: the minister says this can get much worse, so how far is the government willing to go? How much will you take from development aid if this gets much worse?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174530	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174531	It will be a little if and if, for how many people come to Denmark? We have no idea. What we are trying to prepare ourselves for are the tasks that we are facing right now, when people come to Denmark right now, today and tomorrow, and try to look into the future and consider some different scenarios of what the Danish society should actually be able to absorb and how we should financially handle it. We have not finished that, but, like all other European countries, we are looking very closely at developments in Ukraine. I myself am very worried about what will happen if there is a city war in Kyiv and a huge million city comes to war, comes under siege and may be surrounded. This could be a hell of a mess. So I am rooting for the Ukrainian Government and the Ukrainian people, and I am rooting for the Ukrainian Government in the ongoing negotiations with the Russian Government. I really hope that there will be peace, of course, primarily for Ukraine and the Ukrainians, but also because it can be very comprehensive what we have to deal with in the West if there are real wars on the streets of Kyiv.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174648	Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174650	I fully share, and I think everyone shares, the Minister's concern about the situation. What I was asking was how far the government will go, also understood whether the government is willing to look at other options if it is necessary to spend more money on the reception of refugees from Ukraine. I really hope that the government will consider this so that we do not end up in a situation where Denmark will once again be the largest recipient of development aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174718	But the view of the Radical Left has been accepted. My attention is focused on this bill that we will be giving Ukrainians a residence permit as soon as possible and ensuring the best possible integration. And then I am quite sure that if, or rather when, there will be a need to have the next discussion, we would very much like to discuss both with the Radicals and the rest of the parliamentary parties, on the one hand, what is the right next political step, if we see an increase in the influx, on the other hand, how it should be financed, and there I also need to talk to some of my colleagues before I can express myself more categorically about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174755	The next brief remark is to Mr. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174759	Thank you. As I hear the Foreign Minister, he has two main arguments as to why money from Danish development aid should be channelled towards refugee reception in Denmark. And the two arguments put forward are paragraph 1, that the situation is extremely serious, and paragraph 2, that we have been doing it in these ways for a long time, that is, since 1992. But these are not arguments for finding the money right here. There are all kinds of other ways you could do it. We then propose, together with the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, that something be taken from the national compromise, money that is already prioritized for development measures, and some surplus funds from the corona effort and then spend it. So that's what you have to answer, that's why you don't want to do it. Why is it so urgent for the government to use money from development aid to do this, when you have so many other options to finance this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174902	After all, the political discussions on economic priorities will only be interesting and relevant, I would say when you see different options set up against each other. There I acknowledge that the government and the SF do not share the same view. Because it is a very important decision for the government that we are going to spend more money on our defence and that we live up to the commitments we have as part of NATO and that we recognise that the security and stability that my generation and the generation of the questioner have grown up with comes with a price. It is true that one could do well to spend the money, which would otherwise have gone to strengthen Danish security and defence, on receiving the Ukrainians. Of course you can do that, and that is a political priority. It's just a priority we disagree with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174957	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316174958	We do not disagree with that, no, I would say to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Because we are also part of the national compromise in the SF. We also think that our security is important. But these are, of course, resources specifically devoted in this national compromise to development initiatives. So it is not, after all, a question of taking funds from the common understanding we have, of armament and so on. in this extraordinary situation. It is, in fact, about taking funds allocated to development projects and then using them here so that we do not cut development aid instead. I hope that the government will take some initiatives after this, which will correct the problems that are now being created.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175033	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175034	Those are some means which, among other things, include: This is among other things. for that, but also for much else. And I think it's a little violent just to empty the box on this one initiative, in a situation where we also need to take many other political initiatives, among others. security policy initiatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175056	The next brief remark is to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175058	I would like to follow up on Mrs Sophie Callesen's question, because when the Minister argues that because there are many, we have to take the money from foreign aid, that means that if we need more than 2 billion. kr., so will the government take it from foreign aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175117	I'm not saying that because there's gonna be a lot of people, we have to do what we've always done. I am merely saying that it would be a rather violent decision, I think, if, following a practice we have had since 1992 that we have recognised that the reception of refugees can be included as part of the development policy in the middle of the biggest refugee disaster on European soil, where we can see that costs can be quite substantial, we should abandon the principle we have had since 1992. I think that would be a rather harsh economic decision to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175146	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175148	In other words, the Minister says he will not abandon that principle. Ergo, said in a different way, means that the Minister will finance it from development aid if we need more money. So I would just like a very clear answer as to whether the government, if it turns out that we need double that, 4 billion. kr. instead of 2 billion. kr., then will take it from the foreign aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175210	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175211	I cannot give a clear answer to that, because it depends entirely on its scope. Denmark must also have a development policy, one might say.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175223	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175226	I think that was today's good news: Denmark must continue to have a development policy. Nevertheless, I am glad that the Minister will say so. I am also quite pleased that the Minister is going to say that this is a political choice made by the government, and I really think it is a little to belittle the other authors as if what we have proposed on the Enhedslisten, SF and Radicals are either-or. After all, we have proposed that some of this can go from the DAC system and that some of it can be taken away from the so-called national compromise, which has just been set aside for humanitarian aid, and some of it can be taken from the corona war fund, which has been set aside and which, as such, is just doing nothing right now. If this is such a major crisis, as the Minister himself admonishes the Danish Parliament, then surely the Minister must also be open to taking some of the money from the war fund which is facing particularly acute situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175327	It is true that the amendment is not about completely financing the bill, but only partially with the amendments proposed by Enhedslisten, Radicals and SF. That's right. However, it is less than would otherwise have been financed according to the practice that has been in force for a number of years, of which we are then political supporters. I also think that this is part of the discussion. The UN has a recommendation that 0.7 per cent should be used. of our gross domestic product on development aid, and only a handful of countries in the world do, and Denmark is one of them. The OECD, which administers these special rules on what can be expected in development aid, has some fairly precise rules on what can be expected, and we fully live up to them, including the reception of refugees. Paragraph 1, then we are the doves in the class of international development policy; paragraph 2, it is entirely within the framework of the practice established by the OECD that the first year of receipt is calculated. I just think that is part of the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175426	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175427	Thank you for that explanation of the DAC system. I believe that we in the Enhedslist have got it about every budget debate from both this and former Socialist governments. We are gradually understanding how the system works. However, I would like to return to what the Minister himself started by saying. It is a political decision, it is not a law of nature, it is not something that someone has asked Denmark to do, and therefore the Minister cannot stand there on the platform and wipe out responsibility for the political decision elsewhere. That is why I ask again: it may well be that the Minister has said no to the amendment tabled by Enhedslisten, SF and Radicals, but one could not take any of it off, for example. a war fund which is there and does not the Minister recognise that emptying development aid also has security policy implications?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175517	I think that in my opening speech I made it very clear that it is precisely a political decision, and it is because I think it is important that the Danes are aware of what is happening at the moment. Yes, with our eyes open, we will spend more of our common money on defence, and that is the price of living in safety. And yes, it will have consequences for development policy that Ukrainian refugees are coming to Denmark now, because we have a clear view that we are giving priority to spending 2 billion. kr., which would otherwise have been spent out in the big world on receiving Ukrainians here. I would like the political discussion to be completely out in the rooms of the Danes, because we need to know that everything comes with a price. After all, I listened a little to the second reading debate and thought that it would be a bit more technical. I think it is important that we are honest with each other. This is politics, and we have the view in the government that what is happening here is fair. I would like to emphasise this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175610	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175614	Thank you and thank the Minister for taking the floor. I fully agree that we must, of course, continue the economic practices which we have had, I think, the Minister said from 1992. The reason why I am taking the floor for a brief comment is the Minister's speech, in which he says that, with the situation we face in relation to Ukraine, we are facing the greatest challenge of integration ever. It may of course be right if we talk about the number coming to Denmark. But I would like to know whether the Minister would like to clarify this picture a little, because as a representative of a party that is usually emigrant skeptical, it is my impression that many of those who come to Denmark will actually be easier to integrate for us than people who have come from so many other places in the world, among other things. Because they actually want to go back to their country of origin, if at all possible. They come, among other things, because they know someone in Denmark and have a place here. We are aware that they actually want to go out and order something as soon as possible. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175720	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175720-2	The day after Putin's attack on Ukraine, I looked up integration statistics to see what the Ukrainians are doing in Denmark. Both women and men have a very, very high employment rate which is broadly equivalent to the rest of the population. They commit only two thirds of the crime committed by an average citizen in Denmark. However, it should also be borne in mind that the Ukrainians who are in Denmark have come here on some of the arrangements in the Aliens Act, where you lose your residence basis, if you lose your job, and where you go out, if you commit crime. I think that is just part of the discussion. Then I would also like to say that the policy pursued by the Ukrainian Government, in which they say that men between the ages of 18 and 60 should not leave Ukraine, also means that half of the people who now cross European borders are children, and the rest are women and older people over the age of 60. I do not know what this will have to do with the integration task. I can only see that our day offer and our schools stand at the foot of a huge hill. Everyone knows that one Ukrainian child or two or five Ukrainian children in an ordinary Danish primary school is not a problem, but what if it becomes many, many more? That's also why I'm just appealing to the whole of Danish society now taking care that we get them invited to children's birthdays, that we get them dragged to football, and that we get Mom to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175834	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175835	I would like to thank the Minister for this nuance, because it is precisely in this context that, when we use the term the greatest challenge of integration ever, it is of course a question of number and, of course, it may overturn us in relation to the practical task. But otherwise these people who come to Denmark may be some that we can all hope to do better than others, and who may also have the expression clearly and clearly that at the moment they are able to return to Ukraine and help rebuild the country after these extremely sad events that we see taking place in front of us in these weeks, they actually want to. Then, of course, we in Denmark must also help to help them back to Ukraine in order to rebuild a torn-up country. We must hope that that day will come, and until then, of course, we must make things work in this country, and there I would just like to challenge the concept of the greatest integrational challenge ever, in relation to the fact that this may be some people who are actually a little easier to integrate into Denmark than people who come from so many other parts of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175938	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316175940	I would like to start by saying that that statement is, of course, based on the number. I would also say that some time ago I visited some of the first Ukrainians who sought asylum at Center Sandholm, and there I was talking to a 4-5 women who had arrived and their children were down in the Red Cross school. The very first question they asked me was: How do I get a job? I have been working with the area of foreigners for a few years, and that is not always the first question one gets. Actually, it was here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316180015	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. Since there are no more people here who wish to speak, the debate on the amendment has ended and that is why we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316180028	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (SF, RV and EL) joined by a minority (FG) and can be voted on. In favour of 25 votes (SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), against 74 votes (S, V, KF, DF, NB, LA, KD and Lise Bech (UFG)), abstentions 1 (Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG)). The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316180109	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316180122	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will be taken at the end In favour 91 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG)) voted against 1 (FG), abstained 8 (DF, NB, ALT). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220316180147	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 22 March, at 2 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. And I refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
