ParlaMint-DK_20220429100004	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Health (Magnus Heunicke): Bill no. L 191 (Proposal for a Law amending the Health Act. Bill No. L 192 (Proposal for a Law amending the Health Act. Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly (Astrid Krag) has informed me that she wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on the area of the elderly 2022. R 17). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday 12 May 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429100048	The debate is open. First, it's the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429100108	Thank you very much for that, President. The proposal here proposes the introduction of a system of contact-supervised contact when one parent makes false claims in court cases. The scheme must be combined with a fast track to ensure that a quick decision is taken in cases of high conflict. Alternatively, it is proposed that the government initiate an independent investigation into how the problem of the harassment of cooperation and the making of false allegations in court proceedings can be resolved. The proposal is one of the following: It is a well-known fact that the length of proceedings in the Family Court House is far too long. Reference is made to the Ombudsman's opinion of May 2021. Fortunately, we are somewhere else than when the Ombudsman made that statement, namely at the level that was provided when the Family Court was given additional funds, and the processing times have decreased considerably. This also applies to supervised association and contact-preservation. In fact, the fourth quarterly report showed that the Family Court has reduced waiting times faster than expected in the agreement we made. I find this extremely pleasing, but of course it does not help those families who have been hard hit by the long waits of the last few years. It is unfortunate, and it is regrettable, because it is quite obviously difficult to be in, especially for the children who are in trouble. In my view, however, we will have to deal with the situation in which the system is now in place and not discuss the divorce system of the future on the basis of a no longer valid premise about too long waiting times. Having said that, it is a little difficult to see the need for what the proposers are proposing, because it is already clear from the Parental Responsibility Act that the Family Court House and family law can make temporary decisions on association during the proceedings. It is also already apparent from the legislation that conditions of association may be laid down, inter alia: that it can be done supervised. And as we have now turned many times, the harassment package has introduced the possibility of establishing contact-preservation contacts. Figures from the House of Families, which the rapporteurs received prior to the last status meeting........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The average processing time for contact-preserving visits now complies with the three-week time limit which the Family Court has to decide on these cases. So the possibilities are already there. This means that contact-preservation can already be established and temporary decisions can be taken, including on supervised association. The various options are being used, and now that the waiting times have been reduced, the Family Court can help families as intended, while at the same time the tools to combat harassment can be allowed to work as they should. And then it is also important to remember that it is a concrete assessment whether it is for the good of the individual child that association is established. Therefore, there will also be situations where it is not for the child's good that there is association, even if it can be done under supervision. In situations where it is necessary to refuse association in order to protect the child and where one parent does not agree, it is not the rules with which it is wrong. What is wrong is that the conflict between parents has gone so far that there is a need for the system to take action to protect the child. So, to claim that supervised association will solve things, I think is a little too easy, because one forgets the consideration of the child, who in some of these very, very violent and few cases is in a lot of trouble and which is therefore very difficult. And then to the question of whether a fast track system would not be a good idea. I would like to remind you that the 7 cases are heavy cases. These are serious matters, and it is a fundamental element of the reform that these matters need to be dealt with in depth and dealt with in depth rather than in the past. That is to say, through a thorough screening of what is at stake and a detailed analysis of the matter as needed, also in cooperation with the municipality. After all, the intention behind the reform was to do away with automatics and to do away with one size fits all-model. A fundamental principle of the parental responsibility law is, and it is a very right principle, that consideration of the child's best interests and the child's right to well-being and protection must come first. Indicates a parent about risk factors, e.g. violence and abuse, yes, then the Family Court has to clarify whether there are any teams of information. It is, moreover, a fundamental principle of administrative law that the House of the Family should ensure that the case is adequately disclosed before a decision is taken. Such an absolute time limit for the decision to be taken or for a case to be referred to the court, which is laid down by a fixed track system, could mean that there are cases which are not adequately resolved. This would involve the risk of neglecting the child's interests and of having the case dealt with again in family law. On top of that, as I said when dealing with the most recent resolution we have had here, namely B 66 to make it a criminal offence to provide incorrect information, it is not always easy to find out what is up and down when parents disagree on the allegations made. It is difficult for me to see how we get past this proposal here. Unfortunately, there are parents who are harassing in these most highly conflicting divorce cases. This is unacceptable, and it is deeply, deeply unhappy for the children who are caught in the middle of the adult conflict. But that is also why, in the past, there has been a significant focus on cooperation harassment, that there have been thorough political discussions and that there has been concrete action. I am thinking of the 2015 harassment package. In addition, it can ultimately have the utmost impact on a parent who is harassing, namely that you can lose custody. That is why it is not quite clear to me what the authors of the motion for a resolution think should be examined in greater detail when it is proposed that an independent investigation should be initiated or how such a study could be done to deal with the problem. As I have said before, there are studies which unfortunately show that these high-conflict parents are fairly constant in size and that in the other Nordic countries too, the very complex high-conflict cases are being dealt with. We must, of course, bear in mind that it is the parents who are responsible for the conflict and that, unfortunately, we will not be able at least to legislate out of the most violent conflicts. Let's focus on the Family Court House's main tasks: firstly, to work to calm the parents' conflicts with good offers of conflict management; secondly, it is an essential part of the new reform that we should try to teach parents to be good divorce parents and not return to the system to make decisions; and most importantly, to protect the child in the best possible way and ensure the child's well-being throughout the difficult course of these very conflicting divorces, for example. with the good contact arrangement, which is part of the new divorce system. That said, of course, we should not turn a blind eye to harassment. It is not to be tolerated, nor is it to be tolerated today, but because consideration for the child always weighs the heaviest, there will be cases where contact with a parent must be interrupted. In my view, consideration for the child must not be ignored in a discussion about the rights of the parents. Therefore, complex cases cannot be pushed through a fast track, just as it must always, in full compliance with our international obligations, be a concrete assessment of whether there should be association with or without supervision. That possibility already exists today. Against this background, the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429100847	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429100852	Thank you very much, and thank you for your answer. We have been here a number of times, and I must say with shame that unfortunately I am not surprised that the Minister again chooses to reject the fact that there are problems in the House of Family Rights. It kind of reminds me of Comic Ali. I don't know if anyone remembers him. It's starting to look a bit like that, because there are massive problems in the family justice system. I do not know whether the Minister saw the documentary shown both last Thursday and yesterday, where it is actually shown that there are parents where one party makes some completely undocumented claims, but where it is simply not being verified. So to keep to the specific question: does the Minister really think that it is good enough that in a legal society you can make completely undocumented claims and thereby cut off the other parent from seeing your child?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429100943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429100944	In any case, it is very true that we have been here many times in connection with resolutions in this Chamber and consultations, and fortunately we also have a slightly more constructive space, one can say where we sit in the circle of agreements and follow this reform closely. It is just creative enough, I think, to say that the Minister rejects the fact that there are problems. In two successive financial laws, we have prioritised a three-digit million, up to a billion. kr. the Finance Parties and the Government have set aside because a divorce system came underfunded to the world. So to say that we have not recognised that there are problems is a little on the moon. I have to say that, and it does not do anything particularly good for the discussion, that it must continue to be the claim of the New Citizen. Then I would like to say that we are talking about party disputes which always have two sides. I would like to know how Mette Thiesen feels that it should be possible to be sure which party is right without revealing a case. I would also like to hear Mette Thiesen explain to me how the most important thing must not be that we ultimately ensure that the children are protected when they are caught in the most serious conflicts.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101048	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101049	Thank you for your answer. Now I am quite concerned that the Minister has read this proposal at all. That is exactly what the proposal says, namely that it must of course be unveiled, but it must be done in a fast-track system, because it must of course be the case in a community governed by the law that one is innocent until proven otherwise and that one should not carry out the reverse burden of proof. That must be quite fundamental. Then I also mean just basically there I can hear that I seem to disagree with the Minister that it will never be in the best interests of the child if it loses a good parent on the basis of false claims.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101122	So it is just too stubborn to stand and claim that someone thinks it is desirable for parents to lose contact with their children because of false claims. If it was very, very easy to establish that a claim is untrue, I would say that the House of Families has to uncover these claims, and they do so among other things. by also talking to others who can help to confirm or deny claims • it may be the municipality; it may be the school; it may be the police; it may be others • to determine precisely whether there is any truth to the allegations. I have not met anyone who thinks it is a good idea or desirable that children should lose contact with one parent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101156	Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101158	Thank you for the floor. When you hear the Minister's speech here today, you get the impression that it is just a few small problems that are in the House of Family Rights and that this is something we are doing well to deal with and fix. Then I cannot help thinking that the Minister has not seen the documentary from TV 2 the previous two Thursdays. In other words, it is a fact for us who have been sitting with this area that the Minister has been sitting with our hands under the thigh basses for over a year now, because we on the Left and on the side of the New Citizens have been yelling at this very thing for over a year, and when I hear the Minister's speech today, I cannot help thinking that there is legal certainty for the system, but how much legal certainty there is for citizens. Then I just have to ask if the minister, if the minister has seen the documentary with the children as a weapon and I hope so by God the minister has taken note of it and recognizes that the reports that come from the parents and which professionals support are violent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101302	Thank you. We don't usually summon the higher powers here in the Folketing. But here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101308	I have to say again in relation to standing here and saying that you see something as minor problems when you have spent just under one billion at the same time. kr. in changing finance laws to correct it, that it may sound very clever and such reading letter-like or beer box-like, but that it simply doesn't add up. We have recognised that there are problems and, as a result, we have already changed some of the things that were most conflicting and where the children were mostly caught up. Then I know that the Left's questioner is a lawyer, if I am not very wrong, and that therefore the Left's question will also know that there are measures in our legislation and in our system against the harassment of cooperation. Harassment is not free of charge, and there are judgments handed down where the parent, who is the least able to make the cooperation work, has lost custody of the person considered best able to make the cooperation work. What is at the heart here is that there are adult people who have put children together, they have broken up, and they must now be parents of divorce, and their main task is to make this cooperation work for the child. That is why I think it is quite right that the legislation is as it is today, and that the starting point is that it is best for the child to have both parents in his life. I hear no one seems to be different either, or that harassment is not free of charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101422	Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101423	Well, I still have to repeat what I said before. I think it is quite crazy that the Minister does not recognise that this is a huge problem, and I actually said, when we had it here at the previous session in Parliament, that I was hoping that there would be some media coverage on this, because then we could really have got the Minister out of the bush and deal with it. Because we really have been pushing for a very long time and, incidentally, the Minister is referring to the economic aspect. Well, we spend hundreds of millions on this system, and yet cases like those we've seen the last few weeks in the documentary with the kids as weapons. And in the end, this is the Minister's responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101457	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101505	When parents in high-conflict divorces get into the Family Court House, there's a lot of conflict. It is adult people who are divorced in a way where children are caught up in difficult conflicts, debilitating conflicts, and you have probably all read some of the stories from children who have grown up in the midst of such conflicts and what it draws from the traces into adult life. So I think it is absolutely right that we have a divorce system that sees as the starting point: can we mediate between these parents? Can we teach them to be parents of divorce in a way that allows them to agree instead of making decisions? It's a real system. It hasn't rolled out properly yet. We all know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101535	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. We are embarking on the rapporteur's round. First of all, it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101546	I have a professional intern this week, and she has been with me from start to finish, and among other things. In the course of this discussion, too, we are discussing the matter. We are trying to look at what we are actually going to be dealing with today with such a fasttrack scheme we are trying to describe what we as democracy support. What are we on politically speaking? When we discussed this motion for a resolution from New Citizens and we sat and turned it over and read it, she says something about her everyday life in school in the eighth grade at an ordinary municipal school in Aarhus. She's experiencing something in relation to her classmates and the people she's with at night. When there have been parents who had to divorce and have not been able to get along, then their well-being has been down. She can see that they don't get as good grades as the others and in general find it difficult to connect with the others who have ordinary families. I think that her story about a normal everyday life at a municipal school in Aarhus bears witness to why we have made the Family Court House. It is about putting the children at the centre and recognising that it can be incredibly difficult when, fortunately, we in Denmark are about to have such a high level of equality that both parents actually want to be in contact with their children. I think the Minister has explained this incredibly concretely and precisely. It comes as no surprise that I support it. But I actually like the whole basis of the Minister's speech, that is why we have the Family Court House and what it was quite unanimous Parliament in the last session adopted. It is because the starting point is that we look at the well-being of children and that we can basically see when there are particularly difficult matters, what we do about conversations, benefits, and that we do it thoroughly. It's also true that in this collection and that this Parliament came out in that we had some pretty big challenges compared to long processing times, and that together we had followed the work of the Family Court House closely. We have held several meetings and followed the processing times closely. And the government, together with the Finance Law Parties, has so much upgraded, as the Minister has also explained. I think that the proposal here is wrong on several points. It is wrong to address the problem on the basis that we have to change something that has not got proper flying height, that we have to start evaluating something that basically a completely unanimous Parliament agreed to take as a starting point. And at the same time we have several laps adjusted. I also think that there is a tone in the proposal which is not based on the child, but is based on the environment around it, and I think that is wrong. I think that we have just chosen it, i.e. as a unanimous Parliament has dared to put the child at the centre and have been aware that there are things that are difficult when you are divorced. It's not everybody. There are so many families who agree well on the children. But there are cases where there is a stalemate and where the perspective you have as a family is different. And as you look into it, it is essential that we take account of the child. So, overall, I would like to thank the motion for a resolution for raising a debate and a debate in which we can have a talk about how important it is at least on our part in the Social Democratic Party to put the children first; that we ensure that these are the ones we are looking at and that the systems we are making all around the children are the ones we are targeting. I think that is the sensible thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429101959	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429102002	Thank you so much. I have, of course, heard the rapporteur's arguments before, and I would really like to hear the rapporteur on two points. No. 1: Does the rapporteur himself have children? No. 2: Does the rapporteur really believe that it is worthy of the rule of law that one can actually lose one's children based on completely undocumented claims?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429102028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429102029	Thank you. I think it is worthy of the rule of law to start with the children. I think that the work we have done together in this Parliament to make a number of different approaches and put the children first is extremely important. We have not only done it with the Family Court House, we have, for example. also done so with the police settlement, where we have set aside additional resources for a whole new unit to ensure that when there is domestic violence, there is also contact with the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429102106	Mrs Mette Thiesen, I would just like to say that we do not have a practice here in the Danish Parliament to require Members to provide information on personal matters. It's just to mention that this is the way we usually debate in the Folketing. Here is Mrs Mette Thiesen's second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429102118	Thank you so much. And I'm sorry about that. But that's because it's very hard to understand, I think, if you don't have children yourself, what it means to lose a child. I have said before, and I would like to repeat it, that I think I'd rather have ampute both my legs without anesthesia than I would lose my children, and I think that's a basic understanding that that's how it is when you have kids that it's the most important thing in the world. That is why I think it is so important that that dimension is included. Because none of us are sitting in here who doesn't think that it should be the children who have to be guaranteed in this. However, I still do not think that the rapporteur is replying to whether it is worthy of a legal society that a child may lose a good parent or that a parent may lose his child on the basis of completely undocumented claims.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429102202	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429102203	I would first like to say that I have promised to salute the SF and say that they also support not supporting the proposal. Then I would say that I think it is worthy of the rule of law to look after the children. I think that when Children's Terms comes with an analysis and a report that shows that 22 percent. in an 8th-class experience being humiliated and beaten at home, then we have a job to do. The fact that we choose to say that the family courthouse is based on the children, I think is the first step. There are so many other steps we must take as well. So social democracy does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429102238	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Marlene Ambo-RasmussenRasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429102246	Thank you for the floor, President. There is also a great deal of thanks to the friends in the new citizens who are behind this resolution we are debating in the Chamber today. Because unfortunately, it's just necessary that we have that talk about the Family Court House again. From in here we must avoid, for all things in the world, the cases, the heartbreaking stories, such as: The documentary from TV 2 tells about the last two Thursdays, repeats cases where a mother or a father will hit the other person and therefore invents stories about the other person most because in the end this child loses contact with one parent, and for some it stays forever. It's violent. It is violent, and it has tremendous consequences for the parties that are hurting our children, and most of all our children. Nor can it be reasonable for innocent children to be taken hostage because the parents have a dispute in the House of Family Rights. When I hear what the Minister says again today, I will be sad, because we have been pushing for a very, very long time now. We have been pressing for the Minister to acknowledge that there are some challenges about this. I thought and hoped my quiet mind that when there was some media coverage on it to the extent that there has been in the last few weeks, it was now that action would be taken by the government. With the children as weapons, the documentary is a completely heartbreaking documentary, which tells of very heartbreaking, very gripping about the children and what they experience when Mom and Dad have quarrels and conflicts. In fact, in 2021 alone there were over 300 children who lost the right to see one parent because they were in a conflict. Last month we received the progress report, as the Minister also mentioned, from the Family Court House, and it showed that the hump settlement has gone the right way, that the service objectives for section 6 cases are respected in most cases. The only problem is that in the high-conflict cases, the cases we are talking about today, the 7 cases, which still have to be transferred to family law, things still look different seriously. Here we still have long waiting times and we are still away from that service goal, despite the fact that we are three years into the reform. So, although it is positive that we have succeeded in reducing waiting times, we also have to recognise that now, three years after the reform, we are at a time when we have to act. We cannot look at that passively any longer in the Left, and that is also why we, together with New Citizens, have been shouting for a long time in arms about this, among other things. in relation to contact-perpetually monitored association. For this is a failure; it is a failure on the political side. It is a failure of the children, it is a failure of the parents, it is also a failure of the system. Only a month ago we were sitting here discussing the motion for a resolution on the criminality of the fellowship Schikane, and here it was said by the minister: 'Really, few parents do not see their children because of conflict with the other parent...'. But honestly, one parent, one child who loses contact forever, is one parent, one child too much. So this is also about the legal certainty of children. And according to the United Nations Children's Convention, children are entitled to contact with both parents, and conventions are otherwise parties in here who pride themselves on pushing ahead in many other cases. Today we have to understand that this convention is whistling. On the left side, we will not compromise on this. If that parent is not a bad parent, then the starting point must be that as long as there are unfounded accusations, they must be unveiled. We have to protect the child, we have to look after the child. But at least at that time there must be some kind of contact-preserving association. Whether it is over a video link on Skype, which also occurs today, whether it is at a physical meeting supervised in the Family Court House, doesn't matter, as long as it happens. For the situation in the Family Court House, this is about the ties between parents and children that, as we have seen in the documentary, can potentially break for some people forever. And it is therefore essential that we, on the political side, ensure that no children grow up without their mother and father, if that parent is not a bad parent. It is not just their best interests; we cannot be aware of this from the political point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429102759	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Thorholm, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429102817	Thank you. With new citizens' proposals, the government is required, before the end of the current parliamentary term, to make legislative proposals and make the necessary administrative changes to ensure that a system of contact-safely supervised association is introduced in undocumented claims in court cases. It is a very hard text, and I am trying to go into that in relation to the position of Radicals in this context. We have established the Family Court Houses and the new family law legislation in 2019, which will focus more on children's needs and support parents to create a framework for children's contact with parents after a divorce. Family courthouses help many thousands of families with association agreements, and in some cases they have to get over family law before a solution is found. We all know that the family courthouses have had a difficult start with too few resources and therefore also too long processing times, something that has pushed especially those families who have had a high conflict conversation. This has created many disgruntled parents, but in 2021 a three-digit million amount has been added, and we have recently received a status at the processing times, which has now reached the level of service we wanted for the § 6 cases, and we are very close to the difficult § 107 cases that were the target of our agreement. Recent studies show that the children's well-being has improved and the parents' level of conflict is reduced after working with the Family Court House, although there are also parents in these § 7 cases who are still experiencing challenges. But I would also like to inform the House that the Oxford study shows that the interaction between family law and the House of Family Rights is not working optimally. VIVE's new investigation into enforcement proceedings under the Parental Responsibility Act shows that more settlements and fewer orders have been made following the reform than before, and that the child's opinion is a strong knowledge base in the cases, but at the same time it also shows that many parents have nine out of ten parents who, in addition to having an enforcement case in the Family Court House, also had another case, did not resolve their problems within a shorter time limit and that three-quarters of parents did not find the course of proceedings coherent. These are figures which, I believe, are more historical than they are at present, after the appropriations that have been allocated. We believe that the Family Court House is working to reduce the high level of conflict, as there was support for. So we cannot support the text of the motion for a resolution as it stands, nor do we support an investigation, because we believe that some of the studies we have had give a status to the fact that the high-conflict cases are resolved as intended, in other words to increase the well-being of children and that parents are being helped. At the same time, the VIVE study notes that the reform envisaged that the referrals should be dealt with in a specific track track in the Family Court House, and the VIVE study also points out that in practice this system is not known to the judges or does not work, and that is why we would like to understand and learn more about why it is pointed out in the VIVE study and possibly look at it in the negotiations. We still hear that there are critical tones in relation to the family courthouse's casework and professionalism. Among other things: We are very much concerned by the women's crisis centres' criticism of the lack of violence in the Family Courthouses and the limited use of section 50 studies and parental studies of both parents and the use of the crisis centres' documentation in the difficult cases. We believe that this is a criticism that we should listen to, and we look forward to the negotiations, but it is crucial that children's well-being is the most important factor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429103325	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429103328	Thank you very much and thank you to the radical rapporteur for also getting extremely involved in this and reading down the figures. It's always a good starting point. I would really like to hear the radical rapporteur on two different points. One is whether the radical rapporteur does not recognise, including the documentary that TV 2 could show last Thursday and yesterday, that there are quite massive problems, precisely because it is possible to make completely undocumented claims in principle that the other parent loses his children. That's one thing. The second is whether the radical rapporteur recognizes that there is a concept of parenting, which is actually a fundamental harassment of the other parent, simply indoctrinating children to say some bad things about the other parent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429103421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429103422	In these cases, there are many allegations and parents who, as the rapporteur himself said, are really concerned about preserving the right to their child without necessarily having a special look at how the child's well-being is in these contexts. It is the task of the Family Court House to investigate allegations in relation to cases of association, because a great deal can be said, and that can be said in some defence mechanisms. Therefore, it is crucial that the Family Court House spends that time investigating what is being said and what kind of knowledge there is and how other parties view it. There you can also welcome the fact that VIVE has made the finding that there is actually more contact with schools and day care institutions in terms of including the knowledge about the claims you are now calling the undocumented claims so that they are more documented.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429103524	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429103525	Thank you so much. With regard to the issue of parental alienation, I would really like the rapporteur to respond a little more specifically. Because it is a concept that I know there are several people who do not recognize, that is, the fact that one parent can simply indoctrinate the children into saying things that are not true. And does the rapporteur not also believe that the family justice system, as it is today, is not screwed up to take account of the fact that, for example, it does not. can take place, e.g. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429103559	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429103601	Again, I would like to refer to VIVE's study, which shows that children are being heard much more and that the children's statements are being emphasised. The children are under influence and are greatly influenced by the interplay problems that exist between the parents, but we have to assume that the adults who are and the professionals who are in the Family Court House are able to go behind the arguments and the statements, and that they get the necessary documentation, and then I also say § 50 and parental capacity study.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429103636	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we now move on to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429103645	There are a lot of kids in this country who unfortunately come through an extremely difficult period of their lives because their parents can't figure out how to break up in a proper way. I am at an age in life where, looking around in my own circle of friends, I can see that there are good ways to break up when you have children and that there are really, really, really bad ways. And when it's the bad way, the biggest losers are always the kids. And the children who get scars for life to a greater or lesser extent are also among the children in the two thirds of all divorce families who never enter the system. It's not easy for children when parents break up, and we just never have to make it seem like that. When you come up with what is called high-conflict cases in the system, we are not just dealing with parents who cannot find out together and are having a hard time, but we are dealing with parents who need other adults to do what is best for their children. And we're not actually just dealing with parents who need other adults to get help on what's best for their children, but we need help on some of those who actually can't even figure it out in the system that's there and where they get support and help. We are dealing with parents who are in the high-conflict cases where you might say that if you are there first, so many things have already happened that are devastating to your children. It's a failure of those kids, it's a failure. We hear about the horrible things that are going on and I fully acknowledge that they are there and I really do not want me to be here, that some people are sitting in this Parliament hall and should insinuate that there are some people in here who do not recognise how harmful this is. Because I do, and I know that all other colleagues in this room do. When you look at it, I think that one of the most important things is that we should be better at helping families break up in a proper and good way, so that we minimise how it affects parents. With the reform we made in 2019 I was also the social rapporteur, and I also helped to make it was one of the intentions that people, when people approached, then it was called the State Association, now it is called the Family Court House, should have the opportunity to get some help. You shouldn't just have a decision, dang, dang, and then the conflicts could be allowed to continue there, and then the parents could stand and scream at each other when they handed the children over for association. You had to be helped, and that is one of the things that needs to be implemented and that has still not been properly implemented because the reform was so grotesquely underfunded. But that was one of the intentions. Where we need to take action, we may be dealing with all the parents who have not actually yet approached the system, but where things are starting to go wrong. When we have children and start a family, we are met by a midwife and a healthcare professional we would like to have more time with them and there are educators and institutions that would like to help us with how we do things with our young children. But there's nowhere to go to find out how to plan a good divorce and break up together. I think that is missing. What is not missing is another redeployment of the Family Court House. The reason it doesn't work right now is because not enough money was set aside at the time. One of the biggest items of expenditure that has been in the finance laws I have been involved in negotiating is the Family Court House. And then it's because there's no time to make it work. If you do a new restructuring, I would just like to ask the proposers and all the others who are talking about new reorganisations to answer whether they believe that any cases are being dealt with while you sit and reorganise it all or whether they think that it may be going beyond the time of the proceedings again. I think it does, or I know it does. It pulls teeth into such a system. So what we need to keep doing is to make sure that it is funded, that there is enough money and that more money is missing, then more money needs to be put into it. We're gonna have to deal with the cases. The trial time is going down. And then we'll try to see if that system can't work. There is already the possibility of contact-preservation, fortunately. The trial period for high-conflict cases, we call them red cases, is on the way down. This is where you're supposed to get in quick. We need to make the system work. There is no doubt about that. And no, I know that there are some who are harassing and thus not handing their children over for association. You shouldn't do that. Fortunately, the legislation takes this into account. There are also those who feel that they are being forced to extradite children to violent former spouses or other things, and that is also terrible. We can't settle individual cases in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104158	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104201	Thank you very much and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would really like to turn it around a little bit. Because what is, after all, in relation to the family law system is • and it is absolutely right what the rapporteur says • that the intention was precisely to pick up and try to intervene with some tools in relation to these very, very high-strong conflicts. But does the rapporteur not think, because we have proposed this in the past, that we should start by settling these high-risk cases in the courts? And does the rapporteur not think that it would be better if a decision were taken and then you picked up those parents, because then there was certainly not the decision to fight over? So is it really not the wrong way to go, where you first put in with the teaching tools, while there is still a very, very big conflict about how, for example, we distribute the association with the children? So does the rapporteur not see that it would really be better if we turned it back, so we started with a ruling in the courts and then picked it up in the House of the Family?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104300	I think I understand what the intention is. Well, I can sympathize with that. First of all, I think it is quite important to decide such cases that they are properly identified and fully identified. For many, many years I have heard from families who are in huge trouble, that there is also a very great frustration if you do not feel that you have been heard and if everything has not been uncovered or everything has not been seen. And I'd be really, really afraid of that. Secondly, I would like to say that a decision is not, after all, a conflict stairwell. Understand me correctly: With that argument, we could say that as soon as you turn, boom, you make a decision within a week, and then it's just the one you have to live with as a family. I think that if we're going to remember that it's the kids it's about, and that's so for the kids' sake, it's actually about trying everything that may be a conversation that can get parents to agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104406	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104408	I wonder a little bit, because the courts are also uncovering matters. So, the whole problem and the reason why we actually made that proposal is precisely that it takes so much time to uncover matters in the House of Family Rights, so when they come to the courts, they are both obsolete and often not necessarily covered very well either. Because that is what the courts can do, that is to say also to uncover these cases. So I would like to say to what the rapporteur says about a decision that is not a conflict-breaking one: no, it is not, but then that is the starting point and then you can start working educationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104445	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104446	I think it would create a great many conflicts if we were to have just a decision and not feel heard and no mediation has been attempted before. That's what I'm gonna say. But when we did this reform, the Enhedslisten advocated that we put all the high-conflict cases in the court system immediately. What I am not advocating is more bureaucracy and reorganisation, which takes time away from matters. So, no, we don't think so anymore because this decision has now been made, and we need to make that system work. The children will suffer if Mrs Mette Thiesen continues to make this system more difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104522	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104525	Thank you for the floor, President. And also thanks to Enhedslisten for the speech. Because all the right things have just been said in the speech, I attached myself to it, at least at the beginning. Then it became more so as it was, the longer one came to the speech, especially because the speech that Enhedslisten gives by these parents is in relation to the perfect world; it is the perfect world that really does not give the high-conflict cases, namely where we can actually get the parents to cooperate. But the documentary clearly shows that there are some parents who do not want to, and I can really understand the situation, that you have to deliver your child to another party and you only want to be with your kids 24-7. But you can't, because there's also a mother or a father on the other side who has just as much right to these children. When we look at these very matters, when we see the documentary showing how it is going on in the real world, is the minister, no, not the minister, not yet, is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten's answer really that there is nothing to do about it, because in the perfect world they had just cooperated?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104628	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104629	Well, I simply do not believe that the rapporteur of the Left has listened to what I said. Firstly, I would just like to say one thing: I do not think that there is any mother or father who has the right to these children, as the rapporteur of the Left says. I think there are some children who are entitled to their parents. And that's probably the basic difference between our approach to this. No one should be robbed of their parents with harassment because parents cannot find out together. Well, that's the whole point of departure. It's not about what the parents are entitled to, but it's about what the children are entitled to. That is why we must start from that point of view. Having said that, I would like to say, like the other thing, that what pervaded my speech was that we cannot escape the fact that there are a group of families for whom this is not going to be good. Their way of breaking up will never be good. And it's not a systemic error. That is also the flaw in the approach of the Left. Left thinks it's a systemic error that makes those parents fight. It's not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104734	Thank you. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104736	Now you've got the left side like that. This is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution to the effect that the European Parliament should have the right to vote in local elections. And the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten talks about the child's right. I totally agree that this is on the bottom line about the child's right. But it is not the child's best interest that the child loses one parent. The rapporteur says all the right things, but the rapporteur just does not relate to the fact that for some people, and that is so finely uncovered in this documentary...With the children as weapons... it seems that one parent is lost forever.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104811	Yes, please. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104812	Yeah, I'm dealing with that. It's awful. That is also why, as rapporteur, I was there when we made the harassment package, as we called it. That is also why I have helped to make the rules that lead to the loss of custody if you cannot find a way of working together and that parental authority ultimately belongs to the one who is best at working together. So, yeah, I'm gonna deal with that. And then I relate to the fact that you think that a fasttrack scheme makes this better for the kids, when in fact it will just take more time away from the casework in the system we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104848	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, which means that we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429104858	Thank you for the floor. We must always be on the side of the children, and children should not be taken hostage in the parents' fight for association. There is no doubt that in some cases there are major challenges when parents use unsubstantiated claims about the other party to put the other party in a worse light, which has the consequence that some children and visiting parents do not see each other in half and full years. Children should not become victims in their parents'struggle and lose contact with a parent who may be accused innocently. Therefore, the Conservative People's Party supports the launch of an investigation into what can be done about the problem of visiting parents who are exposed to undocumented allegations of neglect and thereby lose contact with their child. We believe that it would be a good idea for the government to examine what can be done in relation to accusations and undocumented allegations and interruptions of association, including what it will cost to make contact-preservedly supervised association in those cases so that the child and parents do not lose contact while the case is being dealt with. It is important for us to have it thoroughly examined so that we make sustainable decisions. We would therefore like to contribute to a joint report in which we propose a study of the problem. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429105031	This gave rise to a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429105034	I just want to thank the Conservative People's Party for supporting it. That is also why we wrote it in the last part of the motion for a resolution, namely that supporting the motion for a resolution is not necessarily conditional on the support of the system itself, but at least it is agreed to have it examined. 'Cause we can see these cases reappearing over and over again. I am contacted on a daily basis by parents who have simply lost their children on the basis of completely undocumented accusations. So I just want to thank the Conservative People's Party for recognising that there are problems in the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429105107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429105108	Thank you. In any case, we would very much like to have a closer look at this. I'm also getting inquiries, and I've also seen the documentary TV 2 has made, and of course it makes an impression to hear about these cases. That is why I think it is important to look into what can be done. So we would like to contribute to a joint report on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429105130	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429105140	Thank you very much. We agree with New Citizens that there are very great challenges in the area of family law which have not necessarily improved since the establishment of the Family Court House. There are major challenges with far too long processing times, as has also been mentioned in this debate, and we have also seen it in TV 2's documentary series. This is a waiting period which exacerbates the situation of the children concerned. That will be absolutely crucial in these cases. I would like to sign that, as we have understood, we have succeeded in significantly reducing the processing time since it peaked in 2020, but we are not in the target yet. That is why we also look very positively at the desire of New Citizens for even faster decisions in high-conflict cases. Similarly, we are in favour of a model for how children more closely maintain contact in the unhappy cases where the association with one parent has been broken. The broken association can in many cases be harmful to the child, and in any case it weakens the child's connection with the parent to whom the connection has been broken. However, it is important for me to stress that in any concrete model of reform of the system it must be an improvement in the conditions and situation of children, which is the objective itself. The proposal, we think, seems to us to be a step in the right direction and therefore the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429105319	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we have now come to the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429105342	Thank you so much. Now I did not have time to thank the Danish People's Party for supporting the proposal, but I will take this opportunity to do so here. Thank you. Last night TV showed the second part of the documentary with the children as a weapon. The documentary focuses strongly on the flawed and harmful practices of the Family Court House in so-called high-conflict cases. I myself have known about the problem for years: parents who lose contact with their children when the other party makes groundless accusations that are not being verified; other parents who lose contact with their children for years because the conflict is dragged out indefinitely, and the parent refuses to extradite to fellowship. The scariest thing about this is that it can happen to all of us, because there is no legal certainty. The system is unfair. And the most tragic thing about all this is that politicians know about the problem as well as I do. And it is well known that it is due to legislation that it is the residence parent who has all the power. For example: he or she can simply refuse to hand over the children by simply lying that the other parent is somehow causing harm to the child. It is also the fault of the law that accusations against one parent lead to separation from the children, although they can be completely groundless. It is in black and white in the legislation that the issue of guilt does not play a part in the family court's assessment. So the legislation means that one parent can be rewarded for creating conflict. And the politicians have known about this for at least a year now, when I and New Citizens have been calling out about the lack of legal certainty. At that time, we proposed that the issue of guilt should, of course, be weighted in the family law system, in other words, as in other parts of our legal system. It is therefore necessary and necessary to be innocent in the family justice system until proven otherwise, and the family justice system must not have the burden of proof reversed. It simply runs counter to everything that the rule of law stands for. Unfortunately, the proposal, like many of the other proposals put forward by the new citizens, was voted down by virtually all the parties responsible for the sick and dysfunctional system. So they have stood by while even more families have broken, and that is heartbreaking, to say the least. It's a bit like driving past a bad car accident without trading, sailing past a drowning man without helping him up. Those responsible parties that still do not want to act on this should be ashamed. In New Citizens we are not giving up the fight for this reason, and that is why we are here today dealing with this proposal, because this proposal must also ensure that lying parents are not rewarded. That is why we propose that the allegations should be investigated while monitoring contact-preservation, and at the same time that these investigations should be carried out on a fast track so that they cannot be delayed by the other bureaucratic problems that may be in the House of Family Rights. Politicians have already done a great deal of damage by looking the other way, but it is not too late for them to fix the sick system. On the other hand, you owe it to me to do it now before more families are destroyed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429105745	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That means that no one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429105801	The debate is open. Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429105820	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution, which highlights a very important issue: more flexible assistance for citizens with disabilities in moving between municipalities and after the age of 18. The motion for a resolution instructs the government to table by the end of October this year a bill on the debureaucratisation and more flexible assistance for people with disabilities. First of all, the draft law must allow citizens to retain the same means and services for which they were searched in the municipality of relocation for a period of at least 2 years after moving to another municipality, unless there are changes in their situation or living conditions. Secondly, this should involve an attempt being made during 2023 to continue aid to young people with disabilities under the provisions of the Services Act on children after the age of 18, unless there has been significant change in the situation of the young person or if the possibilities for rehabilitation, training and jobs can be significantly improved through a transition to adult regulations. I would like to say at the outset that, although the government shares the intentions behind the resolution, we cannot support it, and I will come back to that in a moment and elaborate on it. As I said, we share the intentions behind the resolution to increase security, predictability and continuity in aid to citizens. This applies, of course, both when you move to another municipality, or when you are young at the age of 18 and thus formally move to adulthood, but also in general. In a welfare society like ours, people with disabilities should not live with the fear of suddenly losing all the help they depend on to make everyday life work. In the government, however, we do not believe that this intention and clear value should be achieved by locking aid for a period of two years if you move to another municipality. Instead of ensuring the legal certainty of the citizens in general, the government has already taken a number of good and important initiatives along with the other parties of the Folketing, among others. with the party of the proposers as well. To mention just a few of them, I would like to point out the extension of the 14-week warning system of the Services Act to the municipalities' decision to disallow or reduce aid. Here we have the Finance Act for 2022 and now I'm looking down at the Finance Law parties • set aside funds so that the alert scheme can be extended with several types of help, for example. social pedagogy support, accompaniment and housing provision. This is an important step to increase security, predictability and continuity of assistance, because you will have a minimum notice of 14 weeks if the municipality decides to disallow or reduce the aid. This also applies, of course, to relocation, understood in the sense that the municipality to which you move cannot deny or reduce the aid at today's notice. I would also like to say that current benefits, for example. additional expenses and assistance schemes received by a citizen shall continue to be transferred to another municipality until the new municipality has taken a decision on the matter. In the case of current benefits, therefore, a citizen will not be left without help during the period of the new municipality's case handling and if the decision of the new municipality is to reduce or disallow the types of aid provided by the early warning system, then the notice of the 14 weeks will be added. I would also like to point out the legal certainty package for which we allocated funds under the social, health and labour market reserve for 2022-2025. In that package there are among other things. an initiative entitled the citizen at the heart, aimed at strengthening confidence, cooperation and citizen involvement in general, and thus also helping to increase security, predictability and continuity of aid to the individual. I would also like to mention from the legal certainty package the initiative to amend the law on stricter requirements for the treatment of the Danish map by local authorities, which we gathered in this Chamber to deal first with last week, on Tuesday, I think it was the initiative for a disability barometer to measure the quality of legal proceedings and the initiative for a legal service review, in which municipalities, among other things, are involved. will be obliged to resume proceedings in which the decision is invalid. It also increases the security, predictability and continuity of aid. With that in mind, I would now like to go into the reasons why we in the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. The first part of the resolution is to keep its aids and offers of assistance for a period of at least two years if you move to another municipality. For the aids which have been granted and which are still needed, it is already true that you can take them with you if you move to another municipality. So you can take your wheelchair, your leg prosthesis or your visual-compensating reading program to the computer with you when moving, and only when there is a need for repair or replacement of the old aid or a need for a new remedy because the need for help has changed should you apply for it in the new municipality. So what is being proposed in the motion for a resolution on AT is already in force and good for it. In relation to keeping the other aid in addition to the means for which the municipality of relocation has searched, e.g.: There are some more fundamental objections to aid schemes or social pedagogy support. Firstly, in Denmark we have municipal autonomy, which is essentially based on the fact that the municipality with the responsibility for authority and supply is also the one that pays. Therefore, a municipality must also be able to determine its own level of service without being bound by the level of service in another municipality for a period of at least 2 years if a citizen moves to the municipality. Having said that, I would like to stress that municipal differences must not, of course, become excessive. Denmark is too small a country for big differences, we usually say. Aid to the individual citizen must also always be given on the basis of a concrete and individual assessment of the individual citizen, so that help matches the need for help and the current life situation. And if you, as a citizen, believe that you do not get the help that you need and the right, then there is a crucial guarantee of legal certainty that you can complain about the municipality's decision to the Ankestyrelsen. I believe that we should stick to these basic elements of the allocation of aid in our welfare societies rather than in what is proposed in the motion for a resolution to lock the aid for at least two years when moving to another municipality. Furthermore, I also see the concern about the resolution that, in principle, it would be possible to move temporarily to a municipality with a higher level of service in one area and that it would be possible to move on to another municipality with a high level of service in another area. In this way, aid could, in principle, be collected in various areas, such as: social pedagogy support, accompanying, cash grants for the recruitment of helpers at a high level of service, which could be maintained for two years. Although I do not have the imagination to imagine that the citizens would speculate on it and act in that way, I am thinking and may be concerned that this would entail a real risk that the municipalities would feel compelled to harmonise their service levels, and this would probably not be the highest level of service that would be landed. If that were to happen, yes, then the resolution will have a very unfortunate effect on the overall aid to the citizens, which I really do not think any of us really want. Finally, both for this part of the motion for a resolution and for the one that I will come to shortly, I would like to say that it is also to be expected to involve additional expenditure and, as I see it, there is no funding in the motion for a resolution, and that must be included in the motion for a resolution. the additional costs have to be seen in the light of. Municipalities will lose the opportunity to adjust aid downwards if the needs of the citizen are reduced, for example. Because the stakes are working, and it is, after all, a success criterion for some of the efforts that the citizen, who gets a higher mastery and needs less help, can handle more himself. So to the second part of the motion for a resolution, which deals with attempts at a more fluid transition between the provisions of the Child and Adult Services Act: I would like to start by saying that as a follow-up to the question debate, F 32, which we had last summer in this Chamber, there will be discussions on how to create a better framework for the transition to adult life for young people with disabilities. As I announced during the question debate, I have asked the Ankestyrelsen to do a study which can shed more light on what is actually happening in connection with the transition to adult life for young people with extensive support needs. It is a study which is soon to be completed and I shall then, as agreed, convene discussions. I believe that consideration of different models in order to ensure a better transition to adulthood, including possible experiments on new models for organising action, even after the age of 18, will be usefully brought up and discussed in the discussions we will have together. In this way, we can ensure that, when we consider all aspects together, we do not come out on the other side with half the solutions for young people whose help and living conditions are all about. The upcoming discussion of models of possible experiments will be based on the regulatory framework laid down in the Service Act's experimental home, and here it is among other things. a condition that the experiment does not put citizens at a disadvantage compared to what is the result of the Services Act. It is important to keep in mind when discussing the details of possible experiments. Finally, just a repeat of the government's support for the intentions of the motion for a resolution: greater security, predictability and continuity of aid also for those people who have some of the most complex aid needs, but as I have just explained, we cannot support the resolution as it stands, but hopefully we will have some good discussions in front of us about parts of it. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429110727	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429110736	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for the speech and for supporting the intentions, although it is the act itself that will make a difference to people. I assume that the Minister knows about the concept of municipal lottery, and that is a description of the very different help you can get if you live with a disability in Denmark, depending on which municipality it is. And that is also what I hear the Minister refer to, that is to say you should not be able to keep any of the provisions that are from before the 18th year or at the transition from one municipality to another, because you would then be able to challenge the level of service of the municipalities. If you compare it with a broken leg or with the cancer area, it would be quite inconceivable that we allowed conditions which meant that as a citizen of this country you could have a very different treatment, depending on what the economy of the municipality says. So I would ask the Minister to reflect on that and I would also like to ask the Minister: does the Minister really believe that the economy is more important than the individual person with disabilities who needs help?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429110842	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429110848	In fact, I think I explained what concerns I can have about the model proposed by the SF in the motion for a resolution here, namely that we may end up with municipalities which harmonise their level of service at a lower level than some municipalities currently have, and that would be, I suppose, a totally undesirable, unintentional consequence of the rapporteur's proposal. So you can say that aids can be taken with you. The current benefits are also taken with you until a new decision is taken, and if it falls within the now extended alert framework, then you will have 14 weeks' notice and you will be able to complain to the Danish Agency for Appeals. For there must be a concrete and individual assessment of the individual. In other words, even if a level of municipal service has been established, an assessment must be made of the individual, and the legal guarantees are there today. So I would like to say that I fully understand the intention behind the proposal, but here too I have shared from the platform the concerns that I can have about what this might have as a result of unintended consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429110942	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429110946	What worries me about the Minister's answer is that it is about the needs of the municipalities and more is a concern about whether the citizen will think and wonder about it, rather than thinking about what it is that we can make the citizen stronger. There will be so many cases in my inbox and in the backs of many of the other rapporteurs, and no doubt also in the Minister's inbox about the unfair treatment that is being experienced out there in the municipalities, and a downgraded aid. What will the Minister do, what will the government do to help these people have better treatment in the municipalities and a proper help?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111018	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111021	It is, of course, a very big question, and in my speech I reviewed some of the grip we have made together, with the big agreement on last year's reserve and some of the things that became part of the final financial regulation. And then it is not a solution where there is one grip that is right. I believe that getting a proper specialty planning in this area, with some strengthened tools also for those who sit and search, with increased access to highly specialised knowledge, will make a huge difference. But I also believe that it is working to look at, for example. the rules for additional costs and see if we have any legislation that is too complicated is part of the answer. And in this way, I believe that there will be a great many different approaches.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111056	Sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111059	Thank you. I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister will not agree with the proposer that there may be an element of stick binding in the rules we have today. It is true, as the Minister mentions, that there are different levels of municipal service. A citizen who has been awarded a BPA scheme in one municipality may therefore, to some extent, fear that if she or he moves the municipality, he will no longer be able to maintain his BPA scheme, and that is of enormous importance in relation to the individual's own life. Isn't it a problem that the citizen can experience such a stick binding?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111143	I fully understand that it can be associated with uncertainty about the future help if you choose to move to another municipality in full. I do not have the imagination to imagine that one can go from being judged to having a very extensive need for help in one municipality to being judged not to have a need for help in the other. I do understand, however, the fundamental uncertainty, which is why I also think it is important that we continue to have the guarantee of legal certainty, which is that you can complain to the Ankestyrelsen, if you are incomprehensible about how the new municipality you are moving to has arrived at the assessment it is. After all, it also provides greater security that the early warning provisions have now been extended as they are by our joint financial agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111220	Sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111224	Yeah, but after all, it's only 14 weeks you've got to change your life. I agree that it would not seem perpetual for a citizen to be granted a BPA scheme in one municipality and then to move and then to be deprived. That is not what is alleged at all, but, as I understand the proposal here, it must ensure that the exception that may occur because there are very different practices, for example. in the field of BPA, can lead to a complete change, a fundamental change in one's life. Does that not mean that we have to find another way of regulating this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111301	Thank you. Then we get the answer from the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111304	Thank you. I have tried to explain what I fear can happen if you make such a lock, where one municipality is obliged by another municipality's level of service. I think that this concern will also be recognized by the rapporteur if that proposal is put forward, because then I think there will be a concern that this may end up being a road to harmonisation on the lowest common denominator, probably not the highest. So that's one weakness. The second weakness of the proposal in relation to some of these provisions is that the citizen can have a progression where the citizen gets better, and then, of course, the aid needs to be adapted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111340	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. There are no more brief comments, and we shall then proceed to the rapporteur's round, and that is first of all Mr von der Vring's report. Daniel Toft Jakobsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111402	Thank you for that, President. Like the Minister, I would also like to start by thanking the SF for the motion for a resolution, and I might also reveal that I am not just thanking the SF for the motion for a resolution, because I will also say other things that are somewhat similar to what the Minister said, and that will probably not be very surprising to people. However, the title of this resolution is: more flexible assistance for citizens with disabilities in connection with the movement between municipalities and after the age of 18. The intention that lies in that headline is something we in the Social Democratic Party can support. It should not be the case that there is enormous uncertainty about future aid if, as a citizen with disabilities, you move from one municipality to another municipality, whether you move because of work, education, family, friends or for all sorts of other good reasons. In the same way, there should be no uncertainty about future aid, just because we are about to turn 18 years old, which is something we have discussed in the House in the past, and we have also acted on the law on better preparation for the transition to adult life for young people with disabilities from December 2020 and, of course, also with the adoption text and question debate that took place in June 2021. So we agree with the aim of the draft law, but we do not entirely agree with the means. When it comes to the proposal to lock aid for two years when you move from one municipality to another, it is already the case today, as the Minister also mentioned, that you can take your aids with you when you move. And in relation to other types of aid, there is legislation that all municipalities must comply with, but within the legal framework there may of course be differences between the level of service provided by the municipalities, and there may be differences between their tax rates and other things. It is part of the municipal self-government that we in the Social Democratic Party support very much and which I believe the SF also supports. In any case, the motion for a resolution states that the SF respects the existence of municipal autonomy. So, rather than locking the aid for 2 years when moving from one municipality to another and thereby linking one municipality to another municipality's service level for 2 years, we would rather try to strengthen legal certainty in the field of disability in general, as we were also many parties that took some good steps towards the 2022 Finance Act, also with the agreement on the social reserve that was made last autumn. With regard to the idea of an experimental scheme which will continue the same assistance for young people with disabilities after the age of 18, I think that this discussion is part of the process which the SF itself has been involved in launching this question debate and the text of its adoption from last summer. For these reasons, we in the Socialist Group cannot support the concrete proposal contained in this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111712	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111716	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech and support for his intentions. However, as I said earlier, what really counts is that we do something, that we act. And this is where there's a little empty space left. I asked the Minister earlier, and now I also ask the rapporteur: what is it that the rapporteur thinks we can do to act precisely on the intentions behind the proposal? Because we can surely agree that the legal certainty and the state of the disabled right now are simply too bad and we have to do something about it. I think that is very clear on many fronts. And here we are trying like to give some suggestions as to how we can make the citizen stronger than the municipality's economy. So I ask again: what is the Social Democrats' suggestion that we can start to do some action and how we can support the fact that we have made the changes that are needed so that we can support the intentions behind the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111821	Well, there are some things we have done, and there are some things we are planning to do very soon. And some of what we've done, we've done together with, among other things. SF and several other good parties in the agreement we made on the social reserve in the autumn, where there is a legal certainty package for kr. with a number of different initiatives aimed at ensuring that the law is observed in all municipalities, across municipalities, so that all citizens get the help they need in the first chop. And then there is this from the Finance Act, with an extension of the early warning system, which I think is a very, very good thing, which I am pleased and proud of also included in the Finance Act, and which did not least because of the support parties. We are also in the process of evaluating the specialized social area, which will soon have to be followed up, and which, as such, is also intended to provide citizens with the right help, which they need, in the first chop, across municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111920	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111924	Unfortunately, I was not wiser, and I do not think anyone did, in relation to what the Social Democrats are going to do, precisely so that we can live up to these intentions. It is the case today that as a young person you can risk that the municipality will not do what it is supposed to do under the law. Then you can complain, but in the meantime the young person just sits and waits and does not get the help that is needed. Or you can get an appropriation that is so reduced compared to what you could before that you are actually almost institutionalized behind the four walls. What are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429111958	Thank you. Then we will have the rapporteur's answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112002	Well, I think I mentioned some things that have to do with legal certainty, and this discussion also has to do with legal certainty. And then there is a dilemma in relation to this: in our party we are very much in favour of municipal autonomy. In fact, I believe that it has historically benefited the development of our welfare society enormously, that there has been a freedom in the municipalities to find local solutions, to set the level of service differently and so on. I would really like to stick to that, which is why there are only limits to how completely harmonised the level of service can be achieved throughout the country. Of course, there should not be too many differences. It must be within the scope of the law everywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112035	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112038	Thank you so much. Now the rapporteur speaks into local self-government, and it does not sound as if it were recognised by the Social Democrats that there is a lottery. Let's just call it that in relation to which municipality you end up in and whether you get the right help or not. So I would really like to hear whether the rapporteur thinks that all municipalities are fulfilling their task in the field of disability, and whether the rapporteur cannot also go a little further down that road and perhaps deepen for some of us who are sitting and wondering whether we really do not think it is time to put the citizens ahead of the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112125	I think that Mrs Mette Thiesen here is making the mistake of saying that if you do not agree with a very specific solution to deal with this challenge, then you disagree with the fact that there is at all I did my best and it may well be that we did not succeed in saying that we recognise that there is something here where there are challenges, and that is why we recognise the intention. But for the reasons I have mentioned, among others. Because we are very much in favour of local self-government, which has historically also meant a great deal for the development of the Danish welfare society, we see some problems in exactly the solution that has been put forward here. Then I have pointed out some other solutions that we think are important and that we are also in the process of implementing, in relation to some of the things that have happened to the Finance Act 2022 • the social reserve agreement that we made in the autumn, and also some of the things that lie ahead of us, namely the negotiations on how we follow up on the great evaluation of the disability area that was made. And these are the tracks that we will pursue in relation to the challenge that I recognise there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112217	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112221	Thank you. Now I would like to quote the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, and this may not happen very often: I guess not many of them got much smarter. I didn't do that in this area either. 'Cause I'm wondering a little bit. There should of course be no doubt that in New Citizens we want the disability area to get completely out of the municipalities. We simply believe that they have been completely bankrupt in this area with the amounts of cases we see where people are being completely run over. However, I just find it very difficult to understand why the Social Democrats seem to give priority to the ability of the municipalities to give priority to the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112254	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112258	Well, neither do we. In other words, we recognise that there are some challenges in the area of disability in general, also in relation to the things we are discussing here, but we are not sure that if you just moved it all away, all the problems would disappear. Actually, we don't think so. So again: although we do not agree on exactly what these solutions are, I can acknowledge that we are seeing some of the same problems, and I would like the questioner to be able to do so in the other direction as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112330	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which means that we will move on to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112339	Thank you very much for the floor, President, and also thank you very much to the Socialist People's Party, which is behind the resolution we are debating first in the Chamber today. Indeed, we need to discuss aid for people with disabilities in connection with the relocation between municipalities and aid for people with disabilities at the age of 18, an area to which we had some very good discussions and input, both from relatives and from professionals, only yesterday in Odense at a disability summit. Because legislation in the field of disability is today challenged. There have been countless heartbreaking stories testifying to just the past few years. Unfortunately, too many young people are experiencing the disappearance of aid from one day to the next, and there are still errors in too many of the decision-making cases, among others. in the children's handicap area. Nor does it look much better in the area of adult disability, where the rate of conversion was barely 42 per cent. in 2020, and that is not good enough. For although we in the Danish Parliament generally agreed to ensure a better transition to adult life for young people with disabilities with the L 17 bill, we still face the challenge that the provisions on children and adults in the Services Act are sometimes too different. We need to ensure that the transition to adulthood takes place in a fair and fair process, with respect for the needs, abilities and competences of young people. So, while it is positive that with the legislative proposals L 15, L 16 and L 17, which we dealt with last year, we improved the rights of people with disabilities, we are not yet in the finish line. So we still need more flexibility, but also a need for greater freedom for these people. That is why we are entirely behind debureaucracy in this area, both in the adult and child-handicap areas. We want equal opportunities for all, and we also want a society where there is room for people with disabilities to live freely; we want a society where citizens with disabilities can become an active part of the community and where they can contribute their skills and competences. Therefore, clauses and service frameworks should never stand in the way of a citizen with disabilities moving closer to a job, family and friends, or that young people with disabilities can get the education or job they want most. No, so more rules and more trouble will never ever be the answer to our problems. That is why the Left has also insisted that, among other things, we should: would like more free municipalities in the welfare field, including, as SF is also aware, among other things. social area. Because we also know that there is a great deal of knowledge around the municipalities and among the skilled professionals and the relatives and most of the citizens that this is all about, and if we can learn in any way to benefit from that knowledge, we simply have to give the municipalities some room to show us. That is why we in the Left also fully agree with the substance of this proposal, and although we cannot vote wholeheartedly in favour of it as it stands, we hope that, together with the SF and who else could be in it, we will be able to come up with a report so that, in cooperation with each other in the parties in here, we can put pressure on it for something to happen. Because we also need to get this area covered. We need to get the concrete knowledge and proposals on the table so that we can take the right decisions. We have already had countless resolutions in this Chamber and just as many consultations in committee, and although the area of disability deserves even more attention than it gets today, we simply need to bring these proposals together and bring them to the negotiating table. For this falls solely on the evaluation of the specialized social area for which we are still waiting and which has been pushed several times over the past year. Without the right knowledge base, we run the risk of groping blindly, and there are good and competent people, such as: The SF also emphasizes in these motions for resolutions. In fact, we have a great many of our civil organisations, which have already made some input, and that is why I also hope that a majority in this Parliament will be able to stand together, among other things. to press the government to call for negotiations on the basis of the long-awaited evaluation of the specialized social area. We have already waited too long for them. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112813	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112818	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very thorough and, in fact, quite nuanced talk about the many difficult conditions that are actually in the field of disability right now, and also recognising that we need to go into the field of action and start cleaning up some of what is and some of it may be the legislation, and other things can also be a weak legal certainty for the citizens out there. So I fully agree that we should like to get some negotiations started. With this proposal, we in the SF are trying to start to address at least two of the areas with which I find there are really major problems, and this may be some of the way to a better legal situation for some of these citizens. What does the Left really think about this proposal? Is that something the Left can see itself in as the whole they are in? Or how does the Left see that we can continue working on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429112920	Thank you for that and thank you to the SF for the question. Well, the part about the free municipality experiment we actually think is really interesting to continue working on. So that is something we would certainly like to work on with the SF and hopefully also the other parties in here. Then there's that transition phase, and now we actually have, for example. in Odense tried to make some other solutions for it. We have among other things. This is a project in which these young people are transferred to another administration in the 15th year, and then the same case officer is appointed, and that person must then follow the citizen with a disability from the 15th year up to the 30th year. So we actually have some solutions out there in the municipalities where we are just trying to uncover this problem, because we know that the transition from the 18th year is simply too violent for these people and, in fact, also for the case workers. Because, as far as many of them are concerned, I can clearly understand that you actually change the caseworker because you also per. It is not appropriate to change management automatically, nor is it appropriate to do so. And now it is not to highlight my own municipality, because we also have such challenges in the field of disability, but I think that in some of the municipalities out there there there are some solutions where things could be arranged.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429113021	Thank you. Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429113024	It sounds really nice, and what local self-government can do is to find local solutions and structure itself in a way that helps citizens. The only problem is that, overall, in far too many of these cases, we see that they do not get the help that is needed and that you are late or that you are going down significantly in service just because you are 18 years old. So could the Left see itself in that part, at least as an isolated attempt? For then we could test what it is going to mean, what experience we have with us and what the economy really says.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429113055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429113059	We can certainly understand that we are making an attempt at a free municipality, and it has to be in cooperation with the municipalities that then offer this task, and I have an expectation that some municipalities will do so. I would therefore like to take the lead in this from Odense, because I think it might be exciting to discover some free municipalities, and that is one of the things we in the Left really want to do. In fact, I also think that we should recognise that there may be some difference in relation to the revisiting in the municipalities, for example. because you may put some things on a different level, or you simply have a different design of the offer, and it can therefore be difficult to set it down as such a single framework over all 98 municipalities. But that is why there should be no deterioration in service.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429113133	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line, and that is now Mrs Christina Thorholm, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429113152	While we are waiting for the evaluation of the specialized area, SF has come up with a very concrete proposal that will improve conditions for people with disabilities in the municipalities. We would like to thank you very much for this because, like other parties, we are really pressing for something to be done in this area, and we are waiting with great impatience for the evaluation which should give us a new basis for action, because we want to act on a knowledge base and on an analysis. However, it is also a question of putting action behind the position, and we can see that with the proposal that the SF has put forward. The first part of the proposal is that you should have the right to move to another municipality and retain the support you have, and we have been told that AT is not a problem, but there are a lot of other benefits that you can get as disabled people, that is to say personal support and guidance, and there we think it is a very good proposal that you retain the right to what you have, whether it be called 1 or 2 years. If we could end up with the proposal being implemented, we could live with a different time horizon, but the principle that we can safely move to another municipality and know that we retain the service we have is a fundamental right and we do not think that it is costly, so we can support it. We must, with regret, hear the Minister talk about the fact that it can be a race to the bottom. I think that the perspective of the municipalities' desire to take account of people with disabilities is shameful, but that is something we have to say about as we think. As far as the second part of the proposal is concerned, we agree with the intention to make an attempt to maintain the same rights after 18 years of age before the age of 18, because when you are young, we know that it is a huge transition to be 18 years old, and getting new benefits or new aid can be really difficult. We would very much like to look at it in an experimental scheme, but we just do not have funding for it and therefore we cannot support it. We hope that the SF will accept that agreement can be reached on these proposals individually, because then, as I said, we will be able to support the first proposal, but not the second proposal, because we do not have the money for it at this stage. Then there is also a whole discussion about whether there are some benefits that stop because you are a child and you grow up. There is a legal difference between being a child and being an adult, including for these people, so there is also a discussion about it. But let us take a look at this also in a debate on finance law. We would also like to support looking into free municipality agreements, i.e. whether it is possible to make it legally easier for the municipalities to work with this without there being an economic link in it. So thank you very much for this initiative, which puts action behind the positions that many of us have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429113520	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429113524	Thank you very much for that and, in fact, a very great thank you from here for being able to see both the intentions and the idea of the proposals that are there. I also share the rapporteur's views on the question of the government's position on this, so that unfortunately we do not have the courage to take action behind the words. One of the things I am listening to is that the rapporteur says that there are little challenges with the two proposals as a unit. So would it help if we split up the proposal? 'Cause we're happy to do that. Then I would just like to add that what we had seen as financing this project with the young people and the transition, we had seen in a reserve context. And it is clear that it has its own course of negotiation. But there we can at least see ourselves in raising it again. But it is just to hear whether the rapporteur can see himself better if we divide it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429113617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429113621	Yes, we can see ourselves much better when it is divided up, and we also see that there is a negotiating proposal funded by the reserve, but we need to get it clarified from a legal point of view too, because there are elements in this going from being a child to being an adult, which may have to be taken in some way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429113635	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429113649	We fully agree in the Enhedslisten with the proposers that far too many people with disabilities experience that there is uncertainty as to whether the aid they have been granted can be maintained if they move from one municipality to another. It may be because of different service levels that have been decided in the different municipalities. It may also be, and it may be all the worse, because in some municipalities you have a more border-seeking approach in your decisions than the municipality to which the citizen moves. And that means that the insecurity of the citizen will be experienced as perhaps a real staff tie, so that one simply does not dare to move to another municipality for concern that one loses the help one has been given. Therefore, there is good reason to strengthen legal certainty, as proposed by the SF with this proposal. We also agree that more needs to be done to ensure the best possible transition to adult life when the young person with disabilities reaches the age of 18. Fortunately, this has been addressed, as the motion for a resolution also shows, by the amendment we made here a year and a half ago with the legislative proposal called L 17, where we included a new provision in the Services Act, which is, after all, an obligation on the municipalities to start preparing for the transition even at the age of 16. We supported that proposal but already pointed out at the time that we did not get far enough with improvements to the rules, among other things. because there was no guarantee that there would be no slip from the young person's child's provision until the young person was helped by adult regulations, so that there could simply be a slip in connection with the age of 18. In this connection, we pointed out that a solution could be to keep the aid under child care for a longer period of time. And I would say that the SF's proposal meets that wish, and that is why we are very positive about the proposal. In relation to the part concerning the inclusion of aid across municipal borders, I would like to add one thing, because I think there is a need for a fundamental discussion about where the visitation is actually in relation to helping people with disabilities. It is no secret that we want to move not all visitation in the field of disability, but parts of the visitation in the field of disability away from the municipalities and to a new perhaps regional, perhaps government-based authority. This is an issue that we, and we have said this many times from the platform, will soon be discussing in negotiations after the evaluation of the specialized social area. I guess that's gonna happen now. What we are going to discuss will be, among other things, where the cut surfaces of the visitation are. We haven't settled there. We are going in with an open mind in the negotiations on this. However, one of the points or one of the paragraphs or two of the paragraphs of the Services Act mentioned by the proposers, namely BPA schemes according to paragraphs 95 and 96, seems to us immediately to be a task that should be moved away from the municipalities and over to the regions. That in itself will solve the problem by moving from one municipality to another. Then we can discuss what you do if you move from one region to another, but we have to discuss this a little more specifically. That is why I would say that I hope, as far as that part of the proposal is concerned, that very soon, towards the summer holidays, we will sort out the problem of having the visitation moved. That is why I would like to say that, with the terms of reference that exist today, we absolutely support the SF proposal for this proposal as well. We support both of them. However, we hope that, in the negotiations we now have on the whole location of the visitation, we will actually resolve it in an even better way by simply moving the highly specialised visitation away from the municipalities. Then we solve the problem that we fully agree with the SF in must be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114126	There is a brief comment on Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114129	I would like to sign and thank you very much for your support, although I may not be so surprised because we have now had a somewhat longer and very good and constructive cooperation both with the Enhedslisten and indeed also with the Radical Left. Our ambitions for the disability area are much higher than the actions are at present, and that is why we are all standing on the platform a little tripping to get started on what many of us also call the great reform of the disability area. But that should not be called, and that is why we also think in the SF that we are about to get started and beyond the steppes with some of the things. In fact, I agree with the rapporteur that if we look at visitations, if we look at another mechanism, then it may well be that something in these proposals is not so relevant. However, with the current system, we are thinking that we can put the citizens in a better position and actually get a little done about the very, very wide diversity that exists, in terms of professionalism and visitation level, because it is based on the economy of the municipalities. I do not really have so many questions, but I would just like to acknowledge and thank the rapporteur for his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114232	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114235	I would say that we can perhaps both, because if it goes as Enhedslisten wants and as I can hear SF also wants us to change the entire location of the visitation, then we won't get it done overnight. And our patience is running out in many ways in this matter, but if we nevertheless choose and hopefully get a majority in favour of moving parts of the visitation away from the municipalities, then we cannot do it over one morning. That is why it would make very good sense for the proposal made here by the SF to have legal effect until the visitation was moved, so that we made sure that the citizens who are about to get into trouble today or tomorrow should not just look into the promised country when you move the visitation, but that they will actually solve their problems here and now. So in this way, I also think that the SF's proposal makes very good sense, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114330	Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114334	Yes, I share that view. And it can be said that the way we have constructed the proposals has also been done with caution and in a limited framework, so that it is over a shorter period or in an experimental framework which actually also allows us to examine a little more what happens if we do it this way. Is it better for the citizens? Are we creating a better basis for professional judgement out there? At least that is the intention of it. But it has been received here and let's see how the further treatment of both this and general of the disability area is going to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114405	Thank you, here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114409	Yes, and I think that is an excellent approach to it. It has already been mentioned that I think it was the radical rapporteur that there may be some reflections about the fact that the needs of the 18th year of age will be different. That is why, on the one hand, we can say that it is good to continue with the provisions on children; on the other hand, it can be said that it is very important that we carry out a procedure so that everything is applauded and clear on the day of the young person's 18th birthday. But we agree with the intentions and look forward to further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114436	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114446	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for putting forward the motion for a resolution here on more flexible assistance for citizens with disabilities in connection with relocation between municipalities and after the age of 18. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that the intention of the proposal makes good sense. We believe that the proposal deserves to be dealt with more thoroughly, where we look at the challenges in a wider context and in an overall overall thinking with regard to the municipalities. Whether it should be considered in the work and the negotiations on the specialized social area or elsewhere, I cannot see right now, but we are at least positive about looking at it in a wider context. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114535	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114542	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for recognising the intentions here and, in fact, also the positive things that we have seen in this very resolution. Should I take the view of the rapporteur that the motion for a resolution is not supported in the way it has been written here today? As a result, I would like to ask what it is then necessary for us to be able to move forward in this work. For I agree with the rapporteur that this is something that we need to take into account in a wider context, but the question is whether there is anything that can help the further process in that we can start to realise some of these visions that we have for people with disabilities to get better help out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114636	In fact, as I said, we think that this is a very good proposal and that it makes very good sense. We also think that there is a need for it to be examined more thoroughly so that we see it in a wider context. Right where it should be put in and where it would make the best sense, and that is what I am saying, I cannot say on a stand-by basis whether it is, in relation to when we have to look at the specialized social area, or whether it is in relation to another area. But we are certainly open to looking at it because we actually think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114706	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114710	Thank you, and I'll be glad to hear that. Would it help if the proposal were split up, as I also asked about earlier?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114720	It would probably help, perhaps, that we found out where we can look at it in relation to a larger context, and in relation to how it best fits in. It would actually help if we could look at it, because we would like to help investigate how we can do better, because we think quite clearly that it makes real sense for us to look at it. These are some good things that have been presented, both in this respect, when you move from one municipality to another municipality and you have been given help in one municipality, but also in relation to the transition, from being under 18 years old, until you turn 18 years of age and you get into adult regulations • that we also look at a perhaps better transition there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114804	Thank you for that and then there are no further comments to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429114817	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we would like to support more flexible help for citizens with disabilities; moreover, I do not think there are any parties here in the Danish Parliament who can nod to that. However, it is a matter for us that citizens with disabilities should have the help and support to which they are entitled, and thus have the best possible quality of life. There are many examples of citizens who have needed help and support, but where the municipalities pay attention to the situation of the individual citizen. This is unacceptable, but it is taking place in certain municipalities. Although we want to ensure proper conditions for citizens with disabilities, we must be careful whether the proposal here is also the best solution in terms of citizens' right to assistance. Are we risking unnecessarily to take autonomy from the municipalities and override the autonomy of the municipalities? Will the proposal here indirectly expose the municipalities to extra bureaucracy and costs, which may be a nuisance to the municipality and more than to the benefit and benefit of citizens with disabilities? We also need to be aware that there may be challenges with citizens moving to a new municipality that do not have the same offers and opportunities for specialized services that, for example, a larger municipality can maintain and finance. It may be asked whether it is realistic at this stage that all Danish municipalities can offer a uniform offer to all citizens with disabilities without additional funding. From a financial point of view, I understand that 10 million have been set aside. kr., and what conditions are at the root of that exact amount? With 98 municipalities it may seem somewhat limited funding, especially bearing in mind that the disability area is a very complex area, which is economically a major item in many municipal budgets. We actually support the intention of this proposal, but there may be several unresolved issues. I mentioned some of them, which is why we will allow ourselves to wait until further notice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429115023	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429115027	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech and for supporting your intentions. We have also had quite a good and constructive cooperation with the Danish People's Party in the past when it comes to people with disabilities and their legal certainty and, in fact, also the opportunity to get a proper and dignified help out there. I would like to make a few comments on the rapporteur's speech. The first is about this demarcation of the economy. It is simply because we have wanted to do a limited project search. It is to examine what will happen if we allow it to be possible to continue the provisions on children in the adult regulations. In fact, it is a proposal that Danske Handicaporganisations have called for. So that's why it's part of that construction. The second structure is, of course, an opportunity for the citizen to retain the current support, but that does not mean that it is the support that one should have if it is that one agrees with one's caseworker that another support will make better sense. So it is really such a minimum protection and to try to remove the stick binding that you often experience. Because when you finally get the help you need out there, you're really afraid that you're gonna lose it by moving to a new municipality. So that is at least what is meant by the intention, and I hope that I have given the rapporteur a little more comfort in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429115145	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429115146	I thought it was nice to have that clarification. I think I must have misunderstood something about the individual case there. So that is a major factor in making us more interested in it, but let's see what happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429115156	Thank you. There are no more questions. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429115221	It's very funny, because when I got this briefcase with this proposal, my secretary had come to write on New Citizens as the proposer on the front page, so I just had to correct that. But I do not think that this is a very good proposal put forward by the Socialist People's Party. It is basically about what we have discussed many times down here in the Chamber, namely that you can risk losing in what I usually call the postal code lottery in the field of disability, so that you simply end up in a municipality where you do not get the help you are entitled to, where cashier thinking largely replaces the vision of the whole human being, and we have been concerned about doing something about that for a very long time. We ourselves put forward a proposal that municipalities should be penalised, which did not provide the right help, by requiring them to compensate citizens, and we also supported the citizens' proposal from #enmillion votes to get the disability area out of the municipalities, because we actually believe that that is what needs to be done. We believe that the municipalities have been bankrupt in this area. However, I would like to thank the SF for putting forward this proposal, which addresses at least some of the problems which lie in the way in which the disability area has been put together today. I simply do not share the concern that has been raised here in the debate that the procedure could be much more expensive. On the contrary, I can actually see that it will be cheaper because the municipality that is taking over can see that they do not have to initiate new procedures and so on, because there is a plan for what the citizen in question needs in concrete terms. So I certainly do not share that concern. So we have also seen some rather grotesque examples of young people who have very, very difficult disabilities, which are not something that just goes away because they are 18 years old, but who are still in a situation where they have simply lost their help, because they have been judged to be 18 years old, they should probably leave home or whatever it may be, even though they are young people with quite severe disabilities. So that part of it is also important to address, and that is also something we can support. In New Citizens, we fight hard to ensure that it is the money that follows the individual, and that is also why we put forward our own proposal on how to link the system, namely through what we call an objective visitation, in which we take it out of the municipalities, so that we are searched on a stairway of effort, if we can put it that way, financially, and that we can then take the help with it, no matter where in the country you so settle. Because it must be the core idea of having a policy in the field of disability that what is intended and the goal is to put people with disabilities, almost like they would actually have been, if they had not had the disability, so that they can live their lives as they want, so that they are masters of their own lives and can decide for themselves. In fact, we think that this proposal addresses this proposal, as I have said, and we also support it if there is a report or something else. We think it is a very good proposal and a step in the direction that I think several of us would like to go, namely to create a completely new system to get the disability area out of the municipalities and where the money follows the individual. This is a good proposal that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429115544	Thank you. A word from Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429115548	Thank you. I would, of course, also like to sign and thank you very much for your support for the proposal. I also know the rapporteur as very passionate in this area. Although it is not always the case that we fully agree on what the solution should be, after all, we agree a long way along the way that we have to do something and that it is urgent and yet we also agree on some of the solutions. I also share the rapporteur's concerns and considerations regarding the visitation, in other words, that we need to do something else that is not so directly linked to the economy that is so pressured out in the municipalities. That is another thing we must also take care of. But the fact that you can speculate so much economically puts the citizen in a really, really difficult situation, especially when you go from the 17th to the 18th year, when you can go from having such a full child-BPA to having almost only 15 accompanying hours per month. And by the way, you can look forward to having fixed putting times and waning times and not living at all on a fairly equal footing with other young people. That's really what we're trying to address with this. So I would like to sign for that, and I would like to thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429115655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429115656	Thank you very much. It is absolutely right, as the rapporteur says, that this is something that both I and New Citizens are very passionate about changing. I know the rapporteur is too. So thank you for signing for that. We are very much in agreement. As I said, we do not agree with all the solutions, but by far the majority I think we can actually meet about. So thank you for that. I fully agree with what the rapporteur says. It is basically about being the human being before the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429115722	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no one else, I see, who wants to speak, so that is why it is now the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429115746	Thank you for that, and thank you for all the comments that have been made here today on the motion for a resolution, and also for thanking the Social Democrats for also referring to the question debate which I helped to raise, yes, it was probably last spring. It is very good that the work that is being done is taken with it, and in fact work is also being done on it, because that is what is most important. One thing is that we can say what we think, but what really makes politics worthwhile is that we have decisions made that affect real people's real problems. We are talking here about help in the field of disability. It is under intense pressure, and for too many people with disabilities it is simply a struggle to get the help that is needed. Legal certainty is extremely challenged with far too many mistakes, and the worst thing is that people do not get the help they need. I believe that the situation in the field of disability is so serious that it must be one of the most important areas for us to remedy, and we are then trying to start with this resolution today. We are dealing with a motion for a resolution on more flexible assistance for citizens with disabilities in connection with relocation between municipalities and after the age of 18. The motion for a resolution contains two parts. The first part is about a citizen moving from one municipality to another. The recipient municipality will then have to assess whether the citizen should be given the assistance that has been granted in the municipality of relocation. In the SF, we have respect for the municipal self-government, as was also asked for earlier, we do, we think that this is important, but we also believe that the relocation municipalities are sometimes too quick to re-evaluate the aid. It is not acceptable for us to de facto bind citizens in their present municipalities simply because they fear what can happen with the right help and support that they have been granted and need in the past, and that fear should simply not exist. And just as we do not treat a broken leg in 98 different ways, the level of service for the treatment of people with disabilities and the various disabilities that are cannot be in 98 different ways. It is a municipal lottery, as it is today, and we must have done so, and it should only be the professional and specialized knowledge that should be the basis for assessing which aid can be granted. Therefore, it seems incomprehensible why the offers can vary so much, and that is actually also the message I get from a lot of unhappy people. We therefore propose in the SF that the necessary changes be made to the law on legal certainty and the service law, so that citizens can continue with the aid so far and retain the existing aids for a longer period and for at least two years when citizens move the municipality. The second part is also about the fact that, when you are 18 years old and have a disability, you run the risk that your birthdays will be reduced, that you will have the assistance you were granted before you reached the age of 18. Many young people with disabilities are experiencing a dramatic change in the aid they received before the age of 18 with their transition to adult rules, and this has very major consequences for their quality of life. Young people who have to live with a disability should not sit at home and have limited their opportunities. There should be room and space in our wealthy societies for us to continue to live an active and full life and get the help that is needed. We simply need to have higher ambitions for the area of disability than we have today. And, of course, we need to strengthen the transition to adult life for young people with disabilities, because it helps to ensure that they are involved in the decisions about their own lives when it comes to education, employment and support, and while the adult regulations focus on it, the children's regulations focus on well-being and development, and these things should of course be thought together. For we must remember that a number of young people with disabilities are also very far away from education and employment, and perhaps they do not get training or get into jobs because of their serious physical and cognitive disability. But they must also have the opportunity from a development perspective to live their adult life, and the prerequisite for that is that they can continue the aid they were given before they reached the age of 18. That is why we in the SF are proposing that a number of municipalities carry out this experiment of fluid transitions between child and adult regulations, because that is not what we should do today, and that the experiment be evaluated after two years, so that we can see the importance for the quality of life and development of our citizens and the impact of a more flexible procedure. The motion for a resolution will reduce the feeling of being tied up, reducing the cost of municipal transactions and reducing the amount of bureaucracy, while at the same time increasing legal certainty and confidence in the system, and this is very much needed. Most importantly, it must increase the quality of life for citizens, which is why we welcome the many positive statements we have heard about the intentions. Now I may also be listening to the fact that it does not seem that it is just being voted through with the construction that is today, but maybe we can start working on a report text that can somehow carry on with these intentions, so that we can also work on putting action behind the words, as some of the other rapporteurs have said before. As I have also said before, I have suffered a concern particularly for the emphasis of the Minister and the rapporteur of the Minister's party on the importance of the economy and autonomy of the municipalities rather than the citizen's need for help and some form of legal status. There must be a bottom for how and how far out we can search the various offers. The interpretation width simply should not be as large as it is today. In fact, we do not believe in the SF that with this proposal we are going to destroy municipal autonomy. There is still plenty of room for individual decisions, but we are a little stronger on the side of the citizen. After all, it is the citizen who is the weak party to this and who must already fight with all possible procedures and appeal systems in the Ankestyrelsen, and it may take a very long time, and in the meantime the citizen sits in his home and does not get the help he needs. So there I hope that we can also get the government and the Social Democratic Party to say that we are a little stronger on the side of the citizen and also have a little more confidence that what the citizens are actually coming and saying they need is not a lot of exciting calculations or speculation, and that what you are doing is doing only because it is the help that you really think is needed. It has also been said here from the platform that there is not a real solution, and I fully agree with that, and I do not want to claim here from the platform that this is the solution that saves everything, but I think it is the beginning of changing some structures, which will also improve the quality of life of some of the citizens I have mentioned earlier in the speech. It is clear that we will shortly have an evaluation that we will have looked at, and hopefully we will also have a debate on what we are doing on the very big blade, when we are talking about the disability area, in terms of visitation, and there I would also very much like to sign the rapporteurs who have raised this question on the platform, because it is also a very important part of this picture of the disability area that we are looking at visitation and how it works and, in fact, how the mechanisms are around people with disabilities and the help they need. With those comments, I would like to thank you for today's debate and I would like to thank you for the many good rapporteur speakers. It has a lot of new ideas going on with me, and I will continue to work on finding out whether we can find a text that, hopefully, can improve for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429120631	Thank you. There's a comment from Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429120637	Thank you. It is, in fact, just a clarification of the substance of the proposal. If you move from one municipality to another, you must, according to the proposal, be able to keep the help you have in the first municipality in the second municipality for two years. If, after a year and a half, you move on to a third municipality, will the two years start over again, or what is the idea there? It's just to completely understand this part of the content of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429120707	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429120709	Yes, they do, and that is simply because, in principle, when moving from one municipality to another, we must at least have some sort of guarantee that there is a transitional phase in which we can keep this aid. But if the rapporteur thinks that some people will move to new municipalities every two years, then I think that is a very thoughtful example. I do not know whether the rapporteur himself thinks it is fun to move. At any rate, I think that it is one of the hardest things you can do to yourself and, in particular, when you live with a disability where there are so many other circumstances in your life that are quite important to you. So it's a big decision to move the municipality. But I do not think that this will be a problem in itself. In fact, I have quite a lot of confidence in the citizens of this society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429120758	Sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429120803	Well, that's fine. It was just to get that straight. But it is clear that this will of course mean that the fears which, according to the proposers, may at least be associated with moving to a new municipality can arise when the two years are running out, compared to staying in the municipality in which you live now. And I agree with what the rapporteur says, i.e. it is a tough process to move and so on. But it is still a little thought-provoking that, after the two years have passed, you will be able to find yourself in a situation where you can almost be afraid of the revision that will come when you stay, and that can then be avoided if you move over to the other side of the municipal border. I think that is just one aspect of the proposal where I was interested in hearing whether that was the way it was, and I understand that that is the way it is. I just think that's good to get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429120851	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429120853	Thank you. This part of the proposal is, in fact, very much based on trust. This is based on the confidence that citizens will move to another municipality, because that is what their circumstances of life are saying, just like all of us. We should also do the same, cf. The UN Convention on Disability, in fact, creates opportunities for it to actually be done. In fact, there is also a confidence element in it for the municipalities by saying that now there is a two-year period in which this right is guaranteed, and in the two-year period there is then time to uncover it much more thoroughly and, by the way, in a mutual dialogue, to build a cooperation that is hopefully more trust-based, so that we find the right help for what needs to be done in the future. So I think we should be careful not to spread a lot of mistrust into the systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429120936	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor. That is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429120952	The debate is open. Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429121012	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution here, the authors of the motion for a resolution want to oblige the government to put forward a legislative proposal which illegals the removal of profits from social offers which are subject to the so-called self-conference principle, i.e.. women's crisis centres and shelters, governed by Articles 109 and 110 of the Services Act, and requiring the government to call for negotiations to strengthen the supervision of the professional skills of the two estates. I would like to start by quoting from the proposal which I have been looking forward to debating here today. After all, it is no secret that the government would have liked us to have already done something about the possibility of taking profits out of the social services, just as I agree with the proposers that we need to discuss the quality of the offers that accept some of the most vulnerable in our society: women and people suffering from violence in homelessness. As the resolution deals with two parts, I would like to start by addressing the part which concerns a ban on taking profits to shelters and shelters. Boformer under Sections 109 and 110 of the Services Act is, as you know, subject to the principle of self-meetings, which is due to the acute nature of the offers. The principle of self-meeting ensures that the victim of violence and the homeless person can be admitted directly by the leader of the offer and should not pass the municipality. As the proposers stress in their comments on the proposal, the principle of self-meetings is of crucial importance to some of the most vulnerable people in our society. That is something we must safeguard. However, the principle of self-meetings also means that these offers differ from other social services to which the municipalities search citizens. At the same time, there is free access for private operators to set up and operate shelters and women's crisis centres either as private non-profit offerings or as private commercial offers with the possibility to pay dividends if they can obtain approval from the Social Inspectorate. If we look at the women's crisis centres, we can see that in recent years the number of offers and seats has increased. The increase is mainly driven by the fact that more private commercial women's crisis centres have been added. The number of private commercial women's crisis centres has increased from 6 to 20 from December 2019 to March 2022 and thus currently represents a significant proportion of the total of 71 women's crisis centres. Civil society has historically played and is also playing a major and important role today in the shelter and women's crisis centre area, and not all private commercial offers are of course problematic. However, when I talk to stakeholders in this area, such as, for example: LOKK, they highlight that there are actors who are on the market for wrong reasons and run crisis centres with the aim of generating profits that can be paid as dividends to the private ownership community. In the comments on the proposal here are several of the stories reproduced. If we look at shelters, we can also see an increase in the number of private commercial shelters. From December 2019 to March 2022 the number of private commercial shelters has increased from 11 to 23. Private commercial shelters now account for about one fifth of the 110 shelters in total. For both types of estate, therefore, there are significant increases in private commercial offers. Compared to the fact that the municipalities do not have an influence on what offers are created and that there is no critical buyer when the municipalities do not have the right to visit, but have to pay the price for the stay that the offer has set, yes, then I think it should not be possible to run a shelter or a crisis centre and take out dividends. As I began by saying, the government therefore supports a ban on making profits on private social services under sections 109 and 110 of the Services Act, but I must also say that a similar proposal has already been discussed in the negotiations on strengthening the social oversight and strengthening the economic supervision of social services in autumn 2020 and spring 2021, where the government proposed that private social services should be created and operated as self-serving institutions. As you know, there was no support for this from a majority. Instead, agreement was reached on the strengthening of social oversight and the strengthening of economic supervision of social services, in which the offers include: to publish a new series of economic key figures on, inter alia: dividends paid. The key figures will include the municipalities. be able to use in their decision-making framework when choosing concrete offers for the individual citizen and thus enable them to act as critical buyers. However, as mentioned earlier, there is not a critical buyer in the 109 and 110 areas. The second part of the motion for a resolution instructs the government to call for negotiations on closer supervision of the professional skills of the two types of estate. I would like to start by stating that both women's crisis centres and shelters are subject to approval and ongoing operational supervision by the Social Protection Agency. The Social Inspectorate may accept a tender only if it is expected to have the necessary quality and includes, inter alia: an assessment of the competence of the staff. Having said that, the government agrees with the proposers so far that we should be more interested in professionalism, but we believe that discussions on professionalism should be seen in the context of the question of capacity and accessibility and offers which can meet the needs of target groups. This is also part of the background to the capacity analysis in the field of shelter initiated by the political agreement on a reorganization of efforts in the field of homeless people, which we together with, among others. The party of the authors of the motion was involved in November last year. That analysis shall support the development of residence times, places, types of offers, type of ownership, including the extent of offers that make profits, as well as expenses and capacity in the area. The analysis shall also examine whether the total number and also the types of offers in the field include the professional competences corresponding to the needs of the target group. That is why I believe that any discussion of professionalism in the field of shelter should await the analysis and be taken in the context of the debate on capacity management, which we should have in the wake of that agreement in the area of homeless people. As I have said, the number of women's crisis centres and the number of places in the centres have increased considerably in terms of the professional skills of women's crisis centres. Unfortunately, there have also been stories about the growth of new women's crisis centres of dubious quality. That is why, of course, the question of professionalism needs to be addressed, but I do not think we should look at the issue of quality without looking at the issue of capacity at the same time. The capacity of women's crisis centres is not controlled from a central point of view, and the growth of many new offers and places has created a concern for overcapacity among some stakeholders.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... offers with seats for women with very special needs. I am therefore open to discussing how professionalism and capacity can be further supported in the context of further work in the crisis centre area, among others. under the negotiations on the reserve in the autumn. As I said, the government agrees with the intentions behind the resolution. There is a need to ensure that the public funds spent on women's crisis centres and shelters actually benefit those who need help. I believe that we have important work ahead of us, and there is already a capacity analysis on one paragraph in progress, and I think it is good to clarify in committee how we can ensure parallelity, also in relation to the other paragraph. With that I would like to thank you for the floor and that I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429121737	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429121741	Thank you to the Minister, not least for the support for the intentions of the proposal. I am concerned in the same way as the Minister is, not least because I am concerned that if we act too late, there will be the overcapacity that the Minister also talks about, then important historical professional players, who are private, will risk closing down. So wouldn't the Minister say a little bit about how particularly this principle of self-meetings really is and how much we really depend on the professionalism that is also with the private actors who have been in the field, the Danner House, the Men's Home, which everyone knows, how much it really means to the knowledge and professionalism that we have as a country in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429121827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429121828	It is quite true that historically there are some very key private players who have then driven self-serving offers and not offers, where profits have been paid out as dividends, which have both a very strong professionalism, but which also often have a different access to the most vulnerable target groups, because they are not public, and in particular in the field of shelter, it is very often some people who have bad experiences with the public sector in their luggage, also so many that there is a better chance for these players to reach them. In the area of the women's crisis centre, we have some very specialised offers, which may be for women who suffer violence, who may at the same time be drug addicts, or women who suffer violence, who are also in prostitution or other forms of violence. And it is clear that when there is no control of capacity at all, we run the risk that there will be more non-specialised cheap offers, that are cheap to operate, that can generate profits and pay dividends, and that, without anyone wanting to do so, some of the specialized offers can cause problems in getting the ends to meet. So the principle of self-meetings is very unique and very crucial for some very vulnerable citizens' groups, because these are acute issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429121941	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429121943	I very much agree and again I am very pleased that the Minister would like to talk about what we can do to keep an eye on this. Will the Minister not ensure that we get new figures on the ground as soon as possible so that we can keep an eye on and dig into this area around the principle of self-meetings, simply keep an eye on how many new commercial offers are coming and keep the committee informed on a regular basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122009	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122009-2	I'd love to do that. It can be said, as I also described in my speech, that we will gain new knowledge with the agreement we reached on strengthening the Social Protection Agency, which will make us more aware of what is happening in terms of building up, profits and dividend payments. However, as I said, although we get that knowledge on paragraphs 109 and 110, there is not the critical buyer who can then question it critically because we have the principle of self-meetings, and I hope that there is a broad will in here to stick to the principle of self-meetings. But then we will just have to be willing to discuss what we do then in order to solve the unintended problems it will cause elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122049	Thank you. There are no more comments. So we can get to work on the rapporteur's line. This is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122102	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for presenting this motion for a resolution and, in that way, be persistent in discussing how money is allocated in the highly specialised social area and here in the women's crisis centres. I think that, with the rapporteur's motion for a resolution here, there is so much attention to what we are using the money for and how we ensure the professionalism that is present. I also think that the Minister has made it clear that when we look at the capacity analysis that is coming, we should sit down and look at what it shows. At the same time, it is also my clear expectation, when we have the social inspectorate and the strengthening that has been on the particular economic side, that we can begin to see an output of it. It is a motion for a resolution which, to such an extent, also has the same issues and things that have been important for social democracy, namely that we get a direct plug in so that we can draw excessive profits and so that, for the same purpose, knowledge and experience are also drawn out. This is an important area because we take care of the most vulnerable. I look forward to continuing to discuss the subject, and I know that it is at the heart of the Enhedslisten, so I am quite sure that we will continue to have a strong focus, both in our own ranks, with the debates in the Finance Law Parties, but also in the committee and here in the Parliamentary Chamber. So thank you very much to Enhedslisten for raising the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122255	Thank you. There are no comments. This is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122312	Thank you for the floor, President. I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten, who tabled this resolution today. In the Left, we fully recognise that among the private social services there are stray vessels that exploit trust and abandon the vulnerable citizens whom they are responsible for helping and supporting in a particularly difficult situation. That is why the Left was also included in the agreement on strengthening the social oversight and financial supervision. That is why we also voted as recently as four months ago to strengthen both the social inspectorate and the financial supervision of the social services which, as you know, came into force here in February 2022. The purpose of the strengthening of the social inspectorate was precisely to strengthen control in this area and to improve the conditions for more uniform, coordinated and effective supervision to help ensure the quality of social services and to take action against offers where quality does not exist or meets requirements. At the same time, we strengthened the supervision of the economy of social services, thereby giving better opportunities to take action against the reckless use of public funds. In view of the fact that today's proposal addresses many of the stories about stumbled vessels in the social field, which come back from before the law was tightened up and this social supervision and financial supervision came into force, we believe that the resolution actually provides for double legislation. We are basically doing this because the proposal seeks to solve a problem that we hopefully will be able to tackle and here I stress: hopefully the proposal has already dealt with L 64. For good reasons, we cannot know that at the end of the day, because we have only just put it into effect, and that means that it will have to be evaluated at the end of the day. This may not come as a surprise, but of course the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution, and we really believe that this proposal is just another attempt at an ideological battle against private welfare provision, and we cannot, of course, take part in it in the Left. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122525	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122527	I simply cannot understand why one can continue to try to hide behind this charge of ideological struggle. Just when it comes to women's crisis centres and shelters, you are dealing with a very special offer where you should not be allowed by the municipality to determine the price or who needs the offer. Basically, when you are approved as a shelter or a shelter, you can take the money you need, and it's insanely important that you can, because it's insanely important that people can go in and get a seat right away. This proposal isn't about the privates. It's about whether you can make a profit to shareholders. What is it about, in other words, the fact that public funds are being used to pay out to shareholders, which the Left sees as being satisfied with the changes to the Social Protection Agency?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122626	So, basically, we in the Left simply have no problem with making money on welfare. We see this in many other areas too. What I also started by saying in my speech was that there are challenges with a few stray vessels. But what about all the fire souls we have around? Now I see that the recommendation notes mention someone who has been a cookbook author, I think. But is it basically something that you want to get rid of in the Enhedslisten? If that's the starting point, as long as it's not localized, you're just per. Automatically against it? We are simply not in the Left. I don't have a problem with that being a cookbook writer. If it is some kind of fiery soul who really is passionate about this area, really is passionate about working with it, then he must be behind it, and he must also be able to pull out profits as long as those who use the offer are satisfied. That's kind of what matters to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122719	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122720	Again, that's not what I asked. There are differences between private actors and commercial players. If, now, the Left would just start by saying that yes, there is a difference between private players and commercial players. There is also a huge difference between earning a salary for an important caring work, it must be valued, it must also be paid much higher than it is already today in relation to the social educators who work in these places for many, but it is not the same as paying out profits to a shareholder who may never have set foot in that place. That money comes directly, directly, from the municipal treasury. They're gonna be missing somewhere else. Can the Left not recognise that there is a difference between private and commercial?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122803	Once again, I simply have to repeat what I said before. There certainly sounds again once again and we had the same discussion in connection with the L 64 as an ideological battle on the part of Enhedslisten when you talk about it here. And I just don't have the per. It is a problem with that, or that I would like to prohibit shareholders from sitting there who can be part of this and pulling out profits. For it is also one of the starting points of our welfare societies that we have these opportunities. I'm not against having private offers. I'm not opposed to making self-serving offers. I do not have the automatics that as long as it is localized or as long as you ban yourself out of all sorts of things, it is the right way to go. The fact that citizens are satisfied is what matters to me. And if the citizen is satisfied with an offer, then that must be what matters most.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122847	Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122849	Thank you. The KL has problematized the principle of self-meetings on several occasions because they believe that it is simply too difficult to control the economy in this area. They cannot control how many offers arise and what the price should be, nor can they choose what offers the citizen should have. I would like to hear: with the explosive increase that the Minister also explained in his speech, both in the area of women's crisis centre and in the area of shelter in relation to the establishment of new private commercial offers, is the Left so concerned that the principle of self-meetings may end up smoking at some point in time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429122934	After all, we also had that discussion in connection with L 64, and we would like to, if you can do some kind of cooperation with KL on how to look at this better in the future. However, quite frankly, we also think that we have just adopted legislation in which we so broadly anchored in the Folketing agreed that this was the right way to go. Then I think we should look at the evaluation of what follows, and then the SF is welcome to make some suggestions. But such a collaboration with KL about how we could look at this in another way, we will always be approachable to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429123004	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429123006	Thank you. Just a follow-up question in relation to it: when I hear that figure for newly established offers, it is an unnaturally high figure, because so many more citizens need it, there has not come; demand has not increased as the supply of shelters has come. I would just like to hear the Left: where is the left's pain limit that it is now serious and that we now have to do something?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429123039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429123040	Well, there I have to say that the starting point is not what the number is. The starting point is that you could sit down and collaborate with KL about this... that's the one thing. And the second thing that really matters to me is simply whether the citizens are satisfied. And we have just seen some of those examples, among others. with the Oat farm, which was not a women's crisis centre, but was a 24-hour institution where there were just some problems, and we took them in connection with L 64. In fact, I think that we should wait for the evaluation of this once it has been fully operational.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429123111	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429123124	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to Enhedslisten for making the proposal. In the SF we think this is an important proposal that we support. In the SF, we fully agree that the principle of self-meetings is important to preserve and safeguard. It is our duty to ensure that people who are out of violence or homeless can get the help they need right now. Those people who need help so urgently are in an extremely vulnerable and vulnerable situation which requires them to be met by competent staff who, with their professional skills, know how to receive them and help them in the situation in which they find themselves. However, the fact that this is how they are met ensures, unfortunately, that the principle of self-meetings is far from being met. On the contrary, right now it gives free access to the creation of women's crisis centres and shelters, while at the same time generating profits that can be drawn out, rather than spending money on citizens. For other social services which do not have the principle of self-meetings, it will be the municipality that refers the citizen, and thus also the municipality, to assess whether the place meets expectations in terms of price and quality. They can check the site at the Offer Portal, where there is a wide range of information about economics and professionalism. And with the latest change of law in relation to social oversight, which several have also referred to, we have agreed in here that there should be even more information on the Offer Portal. But because it is the citizen himself who chooses offers with the principle of self-meetings, the municipality does not have the opportunity to enter the Offer Portal and take a position on economics and quality. So even if the offer is in principle transparent through the information on the Offer Portal, it is not necessarily really the case for which person is in a vulnerable situation and in urgent need of help, looking up offers on the Offer Portal and deciding on the information. My guess will be no one. This is first and foremost a problem for citizens who need to be met with the right professionalism, but it is also a challenge for the other non-commercial organisations, both municipal and private. Civil society actors play an important role in the efforts of those people and have for many years built up a really great professionalism around among others. violence and homelessness, which is absolutely indispensable. That is why I am also concerned when I hear that a great many of the self-serving offers are experiencing difficulties in filling the seats; not because the need is not there, because then it would be a happy story, but because there has been an explosive increase in the opening up of private commercial shelters and crisis centres with freedom of establishment and the principle of self-conference. We therefore support the authors of the motion for a resolution on the need to ensure that no surpluses can be drawn out and that higher requirements are imposed in connection with the approval and supervision of the professionalism of individual tenders with the principle of self-meetings. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429123433	Thank you. There are no comments, so we move on. Mrs Christina Thorholm, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429123446	Thank you to Enhedslisten for raising the debate on social profit. The idea behind the motion for a resolution is that no profits should be deducted from social offers subject to the principle of self-meetings. The principle of self-meetings means that citizens who are victims of violence and homelessness can show up and have a place a shelter or shelter. We recognise that there has been a huge development in the number of places, particularly in the commercial crisis centres, over the last five years. We are also listening to Selveje Denmark and the concerns of the crisis centres about the large increase in commercial offers, which puts pressure on the Self-Conference principle; a principle which should not be in doubt that in Radicals we believe is essential for the immediate residence of the victims of violence and the homeless. It may be in the evening and at night, where there are no case officers present. We recognise the challenge, but cannot support the motion for a resolution's ban on profit. Because we believe that it is the Social Protection Agency which must approve the quality of the applicants who are. They have a professionalism to go in asking what kind of management it is, what kind of employees, what principles they have to approve the offer for. It is the task of the Social Inspectorate to follow up on whether there is quality in relation to the price set. There are stingy vessels among the private commercial players, and this is being put to an end, and that is a good thing. There is also quality control in the municipal services; they are sometimes inspected and some orders are issued by the Social Inspectorate. We recognise that there may be something in the legislation that does not work well enough. In the Social Protection Act, we would have liked to see the Social Protection Agency's ability to follow up the link between price and quality and to clarify for the outside world what the context is going to be, going beyond what was in the autumn agreement. But it was not possible to agree on that. We believe that it is essential that the offers have the necessary violence skills, and we would like to work to complement the model that the Social Protection Agency is working on now. Because in relation to people who are in such a vulnerable position where, for example, they are. It is important that we can go as close as possible to the offers. We support the call for negotiations to strengthen the supervision of professionalism in relation to the two types of accommodation. In relation to the concerns of the municipalities, we believe that the municipalities have an opportunity to follow up both the citizens who live in shelters and shelters, in order to ensure a safe and secure life after their stay at the shelters and shelters, and the sooner they get a home available, the more control it is, because then the citizens move on. After all, nobody wants to stay longer at a shelter or shelter, I think. So we want to work on a report in relation to some of the challenges that are, but we cannot back the basic element of this with a ban on profits at shelter and shelters.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429123843	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429123846	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Radical Left for the partial support and, above all, recognition that we have an area here that is both difficult and in rapid development. That is how I heard the rapporteur. I would like to ask whether the Radical Left does not recognise that this problem is growing bigger than a few stumbled vessels. The rapporteur himself says 'brothers' in this area, and the rapporteur of the Left did so before, but it is not really a question of individual cheats buying spa rooms for themselves and everything else for public funds. We may be outraged about this, but what is the problem is that we see such an increase in the number of seats that it undermines what you might call the classic women's crisis centres, shelters whose customer base, if we are to stay in that jargon, is disappearing out of their hands, and that may mean they have to close. Is that where the classic Church's Cross Army shelters or similar NGOs, which have a great deal of professionalism, can close? If that happens, is the Radical Left willing to say: then we put a plug in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124000	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124001	There are well-known suppliers of shelter and crisis centre services, which possess enormous professional skills and which also contribute to the development of the area in a very special way. When is the pressure too high in terms of supply? That is one of the things we can discuss in relation to a report, I think, because it has a value that we have some of these special specialized offers. It is a specialization which is not achieved because of the establishment of an area. So let this be part of the debate we have in relation to a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124046	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124047	Thank you. I shall look forward to that, because I am thinking that it must make an impression on the Radical Left. I would say that the world has changed now compared to the last time we had this discussion, both because this is self-meetings; you set the price yourself; the municipality cannot choose another supplier if they don't like it, and because there are a lot of actors who make calls. It is the National Organisation of Women's Crisis Centres, it is the Mother's Aid that says that they are picking up women who have been to shelters where they have gotten worse. It's the principal of Kofoed School, and we could go on like that. The fact that they say that developments are violent also impresses the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124126	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124127	As I said, we recognise that there are some players who have a very special competence and specialization and experience that goes back decades, and we have to listen to them, also in relation to the challenge that exists. We recognize that challenge; that is what I said in my speech. We just think that there are some other gripes and then the rapporteur can ask, but we are against profit becoming the main tool in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124159	Thank you. There are no more comments, so now it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124215	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten refers to a ban on profits in shelters and women's crisis centres. I can make this speech very brief. The Conservative People's Party does not support the motion for a resolution here, which is based on an ideology that all private social action providers are not doing a proper job and that they are thinking only of making profits. We don't share that suspicion about private offers. In the Conservative People's Party, we are pleased that there are private fire souls who are passionate about making a difference for people who are at risk and need help. There are many good examples of private provision of welfare services in the social field, where a great job is done. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124309	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124311	I would like to start by saying that I agree entirely with the rapporteur that if there were no private providers, perhaps especially women's crisis centres and shelters, we would be very good on a certain part of our body. In other words, it would be absolutely devastating to destroy private services throughout the social field, but perhaps especially shelters and women's crisis centres. The private fiery souls are at the heart of our social efforts and have been so for decades, perhaps even before we got the welfare state as we know it today. So it is so important that they are preserved. When they then say that the country organization of women's shelters, private shelters, the Church's Cross Army, the Danner House, that these new commercial offers undermine their work, that there is overcapacity and that they risk having to close, what does Conservatives hear? Do they hear some ideology or a serious problem that could undermine all our private efforts in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124422	I hear that there is an ideology behind the motion for a resolution that we are simply opposed to some private people making money actually doing a job helping some people who are at risk. And we do not share that ideology on the part of the Conservative People's Party. I just have to say that. For us it is very important that there is an alternative to the public; that you have the possibility, if you are a soul of fire and you want to create a place, because you want to make a difference for some people and really passionate about it, then to set up that place. Nor do we object to making any profit from doing a good job. So we simply do not share the ideology behind this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124502	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124504	That's not what I asked at all. I asked what Conservatives hear when private offers shout up and say that there are new commercial offers that undermine those private players who have been in this area for decades and who have the strongest social professionalism when it comes to violent people and homeless people. When they shout and say that they risk being undermined, if we do not do something about these new commercial players, and when we hear from Mother's Help, they say that they are picking up women who have been to commercial actors and who have gotten worse by being there, what does Conservatives hear, what does the rapporteur Enhedslisten say, but what does the rapporteur hear the private organisations say? Is this also an ideological battle on their part?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124550	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124551	Now I haven't spoken to the organizations that you mention there and who should have said so. I have not heard from any of them in relation to what the questioner says, and that is why it is a little difficult to deal with. I can only hear what the questioner says, and I think it's a little difficult to relate to when I haven't heard what you're saying here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124613	Thank you. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124623	Thank you very much. In the Danish People's Party we share the concern from the Enhedslisten about some private players who cheat the community and exploit socially vulnerable ones they are put in the world to help. Of course, people who need help in a difficult life situation should not be exploited economically, and we as a society must combat that. It is unacceptable that we have some stinging vessels that exploit vulnerable people. In the Danish People's Party, however, we do not share Enhedslisten's solution for a ban on earnings at shelters and women's crisis centres. In the social field, there are several good examples of private providers and self-employed people who make a great deal of effort and make a big difference to their clients. We risk punishing anyone who makes a difference to the socially vulnerable. Well-run private players are an advantage for everyone, not least for citizens who make use of the offers. Should we exclude all those self-employed people who make a great deal of effort for socially vulnerable people and, in some cases, can be better than a public offer? What if we are better at targeting the industry's stray vessels rather than excluding the possibility of earnings for all the players in the area? It should be recognised that a well-functioning social enterprise, which is capable of doing its work well and effectively for the benefit of both employees and citizens, makes a positive difference. We do not want it per year. to eliminate all independence and suspect skilled self-employed people who make a difference to the socially at risk every day. As I have said, good and well-run private actors in the social field provide opportunities for private women's crisis centres, for example, which are able to specialise and obtain a high level of professional knowledge for the benefit of citizens who have experienced an extreme life situation and need professional and specialised assistance. That is why we in the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124831	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124834	Will the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party recognise that there is a difference between a commercial offer which makes profits for example? owners or shareholders, and then a private non-profit institution or self-owned institution?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124853	It is, of course, such a rather strange discussion about a game with the two words private and commercial. I do not quite understand it, because private individuals can also be commercial and are apparently increasingly so. As I understand it, it is a positive development that so many new people come forward and try to do so. And there's nothing criminal about being commercial and earning what you're good at doing; you can do that in all of society's relationships.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124921	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429124923	I hear that the Danish People's Party says: yes, there is a difference between a self-serving institution or the Church's Cross Army, where people earn money from helping the homeless because they get paid for their work, and then another type of offer, for example. a limited liability company which can also make profits and thus pay out funds to some shareholders who may never have set their feet in that place or have never ever in their lives said hello to a homeless person. There is a difference between the two. Will the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party confirm that this resolution is not about all private players, but about those who can make profits?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125008	So, if it is so simple to understand for the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, it is strange that the motion for a resolution has been written in a way that everyone in this Chamber before me thinks it is strange, and Mrs Pernille Skipper has to say the same thing every time. There are plenty of examples in health care that there are skilled private companies that are of great commercial importance. Think, too, of all the private clinics you have, which you also use in relation to the treatment guarantee. So I think that is a game of words. I think that the most important thing is to make it clear that it is not criminal, that it is not criminal to make money from what you are capable of doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125051	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125111	I do not really want to say so much about this proposal, which reflects a fundamental mistrust of private initiative and basically purely socialism. I would just like to say that, of course, new citizens cannot support it. We shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125131	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125142	No human being is an island. We are all dependent on other people because man is a social animal. We depend on working with other people, and sometimes we also depend on other people's help. When we rely on the help of other people, it is an accident if one is limited to seeking help from a few. It is a joy if there are many who offer help to those who seek help. It is a joy if there are industrious people who are vying to give the best possible help because they care about it with an honest heart and because they have also chosen to make a way of living out of what they care about. Everywhere in Danish society we all always enjoy innovation and investment from people who both care about what they do, but who also seek a way of life for themselves and those they have to support. The prerequisite for putting your savings into a project or perhaps lending it to a project is also that the risk you are running gives you an opportunity to make money back home and maybe even make a profit from it. That is why we can welcome all sorts of areas of society in which private players, who are also looking for profits, compete with each other to deliver the best possible to us. Having the view that it is an accident that people who are dependent on help, vulnerable people, can meet people who are vying to offer them the best possible, also with the aim of making some money on it, stands in complete contrast to what we think we benefit from as people when we are self-reliant and able to take care of ourselves and are just looking for the best possible offer. It is not the case that, when you are self-reliant and able to take care of yourself and are looking for the best possible offer, some have quite different interests from those that need help. Those who need help also need innovation in the field of aid, and there are fire souls who want to volunteer, including those who see a business idea in it. So we cannot therefore support this socialist crazy race against profit in welfare, which both Enhedslisten and the democratic socialists in the Social Democratic Party lead the way, but which, fortunately, so far there is not a large majority in the Folketing. We shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125448	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125450	Does the Liberal Alliance rapporteur know whether, when you start a crisis centre, you invest yourself in setting up, or whether you get public funding to set it up?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125506	There are both options. Nevertheless, it is also the case that you can establish with your own funds and with investor money that you get and that you also have a need to get that money paid back and that you also have a need to know that that risk is worth taking.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125535	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125537	So what the Liberal Alliance thinks is that if it is the government that pays the establishment costs and you get subsidies for it, and it is the government that pays all the operating costs, so that you have nothing invested in it and have no risk in it, then it is okay to say: After all, you must not draw the profits out to the shareholders anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125602	I am only interested in one thing, and that is that there are as many offers as possible to those who need help. That's not what Enhedslisten is interested in. Enhedslisten is interested in protecting the established in the field from competition from new people with new ideas and new visions. This is what we see time and time again: 'Enhedslisten wants to protect the public sector from competition, and sometimes, as in this case, we also want to protect NGOs from competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125630	Here you go, Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125631	Thank you. I would like to ask something if we now see this unusual increase in capacity, which is approaching significant overcapacity. Normally it would be the case, when it is the free market forces and there are discrepancies between supply and demand, that then it is the buyers on the market who decide what those offers are that exist. Does the Liberal Alliance believe that these mechanisms really work in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125708	Yeah, I think they do. Let's take a corner of it, not a small corner, but a corner of it. The most recent figures I have seen say that one third of the people who are on, for example. women's crisis centers are revenants. And that means that if they return to a place they've been before, it's an expression that they've had a good experience of being there before. If they have not had a good experience of being there before, I think that in that situation too they can find a way to look elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125744	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125746	Okay. It surprises me a little that a success criterion should be that you returned. I would hope that it was the case that you did not actually need to return. But let it be so now that I have the floor. But it is also the case that when you want as many offers as possible, it means de facto that you close some because demand does not just increase because there are more offers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125821	I think it is extremely unspeakable when Mrs Trine Torp knows very well that the vast majority of women in crisis centres today go to some of the established institutions, which Mrs Trine Torp will protect against competition. When Mrs Trine Torp then pretends that I am the situation today with the institutions that Mrs Trine Torp protects from competition. That is why Mrs Trine Torp has given me an untrue answer in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125849	Thank you. Then there are no more comments and no more people have asked to speak, so the debate is closed... I am sorry, it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion. Of course it is. Here you go. I just thought Mrs. Pernille Skipper had said so much, so I thought there would be no more. But here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429125912	Thank you very much and thank you very much for the debate. I can regret or promise or reassure that there is plenty more to say on this subject, even after today. I think so. We have seen a very large increase in the number of new offers in the field of shelter and in the area of women's crisis centre. Some of the most glaring examples advertise wellness departments and the opportunity to go to surfer school: Come here, and we'll do you great. This is evidence that we have a problem. The principle of self-meetings is something that is not really talked about. I know that this is not a really popular concept, but it is insanely important when it comes to some of the most vulnerable people in our society. Because that means you can turn to a shelter or a women's crisis centre, knock on the door literally, and then the person who opens the door is the person who assesses whether to go in and have a seat and a bed with all the rights of treatment and support and help there is. And the municipality just has to pay and sort of pay what the place says it takes to deliver the right professional effort. It is so important that we keep it. When there are so many new offers, many of which are public limited companies or aps, it shows that there are also some here, or at least there is a risk that some have seen a fat scam. And it also undermines the existing established private offers, which are just driven by fire souls on the basis of strong professionalism for many years, because their customer base disappears, and then they cannot continue to run their offer. So we run the risk that some of the most important players we have at all when it comes to vulnerable people, homeless and violent women end up having to turn the key because we have an ideological desire that they just part-out should be exposed to competition. Honestly, they don't have to. If you think that competition is of the good, when it comes to shelters that help the victims of violence, you have such an idea that there is a woman who has been battered for a long time, many of them have children too, and when she is planning her escape, she is not wondering when he is coming home from work and whether she can be sure to get there and where to put the bag she has packed so that he does not discover it. Then she's just going to google what they've got on Trustpilot, and wondering if she'll go to one place or another. It is nonsense to think that those people who have no home have no place to live and knock at a shelter are such critical consumers who choose the best place with the good recommendations. You haven't been outside these doors, if you think that's what this is all about. That is why there is no free market. It is also not a free market when you can just set your own price and then ask the municipality to pay. Indeed, we have decided that here is extreme trust, complete, and some people are taking advantage of it. There is a very, very big difference between being a private initiative and then being a private initiative that can make profits and be commercial. Hiding behind the fact that this is some kind of socialist storm against private people is simply too much, and it is too stupid, especially when a great many of the private players who have the strongest professionalism in this field, and who are all the very souls of fire whom many of the previous rapporteurs salute, warn and say that they are in trouble now. Yes, you have to make money helping vulnerable people. Welfare work, caring work is valued far too low. I think it should be borne in mind that the next time we talk about whether social educators and nurses and sosus should have something more in pay, in the context of discussions on equal pay. This is about whether shareholders who may never have set foot on an offer or have never greeted a homeless person should also have the opportunity to make money on it. And there I think: No, it's simply a waste of public crowns... something the right wing cares a lot about avoiding. I hope we come to our senses in here before this goes wrong. The problem is precisely that this is not a free market where it is survival of the fittest. The problem here is that these are very, very specialised offers that we need and some professionalism that is likely to be lost. I hope we can agree on some kind of very, very close monitoring. We have already started in the field of shelter; we have yet to do so in the area of crisis centres. Then I hope we can tighten up a little on what kind of professional requirements there are, so that the Social Protection Agency can keep an extra eye on. I am afraid that if we do not realise that we have to put some real thumb screws around these profit opportunities, then it will end up going beyond the principle of self-meetings. Because what happens in a municipality and in the town roots when you have to lay the budget is that the money has to be paid out, no matter how high the price is, and then they will be missing elsewhere, either elsewhere on the public offerings. So someone in here cares a little bit, I can almost understand or they may be missing in the field of disability or elsewhere, which is why it can't just go on. Some kind of limit has to be set. It is a wonder to me that we have a right wing who thinks it is quite fine that there is zero governance with the economy in a public area where spending can just go crazy, and it does not matter. It's really a wonder to me. In any case, we would very, very much like to accept the extended hands that have been around and then try to continue working on the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429130600	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429130602	Thank you so much. What comes from the Enhedslisten and from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is nothing new. But I would really like to ask the rapporteur, because this proposal specifically deals with the ban on profits in shelters and women's crisis centres, precisely because the current legislation does not have the same rights for men and women: does the Enhedslisten believe that equality, in other words gender-neutralising section 109 of the Service Act, is necessary to ensure that men have equal rights with women?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429130637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429130639	The Enhedslisten believes we should make a separate paragraph so that women and men have the same rights to appear at a shelter and bring their children with them if they are victims of violence, yes, and that work is under way, as Mrs Mette Thiesen knows. What is the problem is that if we do this and the principle of self-conferences still apply, then public spending in this area will increase enormously. We will still be able to make profits in this area and we will simply undermine the efforts already made. So, yeah, we're gonna do that. This has nothing to do with this proposal, but fortunately we have also tabled our own resolution on the previous one, which I am sure Mrs Mette Thiesen will remember.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429130720	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429130720-2	Because I can do that. It was just because I haven't heard anything about this with section 109 A for a very long time. So that is actually why I thought I would ask the rapporteur if it had been forgotten again. In New Citizens we basically believe that it is simply a matter of gender neutralising Article 109, because it makes no sense to have separate paragraphs for women and for men. However, I do not really know what it is that Mrs Pernille Skipper is based on the assumption that expenditure in this area will rise completely insanely if we do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429130753	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429130754	You can look at the numbers that are right now. In the last very, very few years, there are more than 100 per cent increase in commercial offers in the women's crisis centre and shelter area. A lot of new A/Ss and aps have emerged. There are also some who have already gone bankrupt again. It costs a great deal of money because they have access to value themselves and decide for themselves whether or not the people who come through the door need their help. You want to expand that option if you make a section 109 A.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429130827	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429130841	The debate is open. It's the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429130859	Thank you. In fact, I always want to be quite accommodating to the proposals that people are making, and we just got to talk a little out back; we actually do that quite often. Before we go to the hall, it's usually nice to sit out back and talk to each other. I am not very accommodating about this proposal. This is simply an arrangement that has not really grown in the backyard of the Social Democratic Party, and I would like to say a few words about that on the way. I always think it's good to have the discussion. It has not been so long since we had the debate in this Chamber before. What is being proposed here is, of course, that the rules on subsidies which already exist in a slightly different variety and with some limitations should be changed, so that 90%. of the municipal allowance is paid to the parents, that is to say to the parents or to another caregiver in order to care for the child at home, and it must then be an alternative to the existing provision of care. As it is today, it is the individual municipality that decides if you want that opportunity. When this is done, it is after a year-long debate and a year-long disagreement between the various parties in the Folketing on how to deal with this, and it has been resolved by the fact that it is up to the municipalities to decide whether they are going one way or the other. In this context, it has never been the main priority of social democracy in all these debates that we should go down that path, to put it bluntly. However, I think that, whatever party we come from, we all think, of course, that good children's life is the right thing and that that is what we must support, but in relation to what the boundaries between state and private sphere are and when something must be private instead of collective and all these things, are, after all, the areas where disagreements arise very quickly. This thing about paying parents to go home hasn't grown in the backyard of social democracy. We believe that we must contribute and contribute to the community, and this does not, of course, apply during a period of maternity, which we have helped to extend on several occasions, but our starting point is that adult people must, of course, contribute to the community by working, and at least that the state should not provide an economic incentive for not contributing, so to speak. This is partly what we think is the basis for this proposal, and that is that one wants to spend government dollars on and thus provide an incentive for there to be a part of the workforce that is no longer supposed to be. We think this is inappropriate. It's like the one layer that's in it, and the other layer is the kids. There we see that the offers, that is, day care, crèche and kindergarten, and later also the school, are places where the world of children opens up. It is clear that until some age it is very appropriate that you can go home and also have an economy for it and take care of your child yourself, and then the world of children begins to open up as they grow a little bigger. There is crèche, day care and the other arrangements we have, a really good framework for starting to join a community and start learning to consider each other and meet other children who do not necessarily look like you, and who come from some other family patterns where they eat differently at the lunch table otherwise eat some other things at the lunch table or whatever they do. You simply start to be socialized into a community, and we in the Social Democratic Party think that this is a very good idea that we spend not only money on but also a great deal of money on it. That is why, in these years of government, we have helped the support parties to set aside a great deal of extra money for the children's area, because we believe that these communities and early times are extremely important for children's development. We believe that the opening up to the world that happens when you reach a certain age is really good for children to get out of being a part of. It is not always the case that parents have the same security that children begin to become part of the world that the child himself has, and therefore it does not matter that one gives an incentive that when the children reach a certain age, they start to open up from there. It is clear, then, that if children have certain specific needs, there may be a good need for mother and father, one or the other, to go home, and therefore there are arrangements for having children with disabilities, for example, to receive financial support and pay compensation in relation to caring for the child in your own home. So, of course, there may be cases where it is different, but for the large broad group of children we see it as an absolutely good thing that it is not just a matter of caring for children, but that it is actually a matter of children's glasses that they will then have the opportunity to participate in collective arrangements. We must therefore bear in mind, when we talk about free elections here, that, at least in the debates we have had about it, it has been typical that most parties talk a lot about free elections for adults, and I think this is about the children. There I would say that for the vast majority of children it is a very good idea that the world is actually allowed to open up and you are part of the small or larger communities of children, depending on who you are, which day care and kindergarten respectively can offer, and that is different. Some can best with the small context, where day care is the most relevant, and that is why we have a really solid day care in Denmark, and others can better with the slightly larger contexts and come into the children's community with all the brittle and colorfulness that is there. So I actually think that we have several different types of offers where we give children the opportunity to open up the world, and that is why I am sometimes a little sad that we have a discussion about free choice for adults. After all, it is not about them. Well, summa summarum is that we by the government do not think it is a good idea to start paying money for people not on the labour market. On the other hand, we think that the discussion on children is really important, that is, what is at stake is how best to get children moving, and that is where we want to focus our attention on the idea that we have day care, so that we have smaller children's communities, and that we have day care institutions, which are the slightly larger children's communities that we can enter into. However, I would like to thank you for putting the proposal forward and for giving us an opportunity to discuss child policy. I cannot immediately see such a path of compromise in front of me. That's how I like to round off my speeches, but I think this is one of the places where the water divides. But thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429131601	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429131610	Thank you for a good speech, and thank you for an honest speech. It's nice to have honest words on the counter. And this is a rather exciting debate, because in the alternative we also want the community. We believe that there are many, many things we need to resolve in common in our society. But we also have this desire for freedom, and sometimes this social democratic society can get a little too tight. On this occasion, it is a matter of allowing the money to follow the child, so that parents can decide for themselves when a child should be in care or whether they will take care of a child themselves often during the earliest years and decide for themselves whether it is the best for the child. Now that it is true that parents will get back the tax dollars they have paid themselves by caring for their own child for a period of time, why is it not reasonable for them to be able to assess themselves, for example? when the child is very small, if they would rather use the tax dollars to care for the child themselves, if they consider it to be best for the child?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429131705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429131708	But the desire for freedom for whom? Thus, the alternative has a great desire for freedom on behalf of parents, but the vast majority of children begin to become curious about the outside world from the time they are in the vicinity of 7-8 months of age; so it is a desire for freedom on behalf of some parents, but not necessarily on the basis that children start to become curious about each other and want to become part of a community of children. Then, of course, there are exceptions to it, but that will be for the vast majority. The second thing I want to say is that there is no compulsory education for children who are one year old; unlike the school where you do not actually have to go to school because it is a compulsory education, so parents can choose that the children are taught in a different way. But there is no obligation to have children in an institution. Well, it's almost gonna sound when you listen to Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl, as if there was a duty to send his child to crèche. There isn't. So what is the discussion here is not whether you can keep your child at home if you want to, but about the state and I think it is important that you also contribute in terms of work to our community.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429131815	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429131816	After all, it is not the state that pays; it is really money that you have paid, so you just get your own money back. But with regard to the freedom of whom I think that is also a good question. But, in other words, children aged 8 months are, what can be said, dependent on parents choosing for them. Well, there is no child who is able to choose anything at that time. So it is clear that if a mother or father considers that he or she wants to take care of his or her child from one year to one and a half or two years, then it is also an assessment that has been made on the basis of the child's best interests.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429131848	Thank you. Here you go, Minister. Torsten Gejl I will not make it anymore, but I hope the Minister understood my objection). We have some speaking time here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429131852	Well, I quite agree with that, and I think that parents know far along the way what is best for their children. What is the question here is, of course, what we should have state financial incentives for and what we should not do, because there is not, and that means that it is actually only when the child reaches the age of education that the state begins to relate to how the child should be cared for or in that situation taught. We have a tradition of children being sent to kindergarten and crèche. There wasn't the same tradition when my father was a child and my mother was a child, because there it hadn't arisen yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429131928	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429131931	Thank you so much. We've had this debate before, but I'm just a little shocked by some of the statements coming from the Minister for Children and Education. Maybe I shouldn't be at this point. But does the Minister really believe that parents do not know what is best for their child? Because the Minister keeps arguing that the state does not have to pay the parents to care for their children and that it is a desire for freedom for the parents and not for the children. But I guess the parents know best what's best for their child exactly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132005	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132010	I sometimes get the feeling that Mrs Mette Thiesen does not belong to the things I say or at least hear them very differently. Well, it's been less than three minutes since I said that it's really my opinion that parents are best at assessing what's good for their child. The question is, what is going to state? There are two different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132023	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132032	Yes, the state money, the children of the state, is almost tempted to say that with the policy pursued by the Social Democratic Government too. But it is not the state's money; it is the Danes' money that they pay into too high taxes and taxes. And that is something that the government could actually change if it wanted to, so that as a family you had the opportunity to adapt much more as you wanted, and could go home and look after the children for the first important years. So that means that if the Minister really believes in it, then surely the Minister should also take the lead in putting taxes and taxes down so that parents can make it stick together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132105	I actually thought that but there I can be wrong, because it's New Citizens, so it may be because it's a new bourgeois virtue that it's been such a classic bourgeois virtue that you have to contribute to the community and that it's important that you each contribute your share. And that's why I'm actually surprised that you hit so much on the drum for us to start using tax dollars to pay people to go home. But, of course, that may be what is in the word new. But Mrs Mette Thiesen can explain that when she comes up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132129	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we start the rapporteur's round, and first it's Mr. Knox. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132145	Thank you for that, and thanks to the alternative for raising the debate on what we are doing to ensure that there is the best possible framework around our children, and this is, of course, a debate that we have actually had with the alternative in very many other contexts. After all, it is no secret that since the majority changed and the present government came into being, we have invested a great deal, including billions, in ensuring better children's lives and ensuring that there are enough hands, that there are more educated adults around our children, and that they have a better everyday life in the institutions, and that says everything that we agree on that priority for our smallest fellow citizens, and that is something that can only be welcomed by politicians and as parents, both as a social democrat. It is also true, as the Minister says, that it is different how one chooses to arrange oneself in the municipalities, and it is also different how one organises oneself in the families, and it is, of course, an option that children do not go to institution and that one chooses to keep one's children at home, and there are also municipalities that choose to support it, i.e. have arrangements where they, if so to say, grant a subsidy, and I think that is actually fine. And that is why there has been no discussion on my part about whether to prevent the municipalities from doing this. On the other hand, I think that what we should focus on, and what we should prioritise, and what we should use, after all, the scarce resources we have, is, of course, to strengthen the day-to-day institutional offer, which we have also done together, and that has many different aspects, also because it is good for children. Just as it is good to be with your parents, it is also good to be in social contexts and to meet some other children and get into the circles it provides, but it is of course also because we have arranged ourselves in this country that we want parents to have the opportunity to be on the labour market, and we also want it to be both women and men who have the opportunity to be on the labour market, and it is clear that some of these discussions also have an equal opportunities battle side, and where, at least, there have been trends that in reality it will end up with some gender setbacks, if one can say that one can resolve the collective solutions and start drawing it in a different direction. The discussion on how to ensure more freedom for families or how to ensure a better balance between working life and institution and everything we all know, that is to say, that we think our little one is a little too much away from home and something like that, of course, we are happy to take it. But this is not how we think we should give priority to the funds, and that is why we do not support the motion for a resolution. But we are happy to discuss the framework for our smallest.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132433	There is a brief comment, first from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132436	Thank you so much. I'm actually just gonna follow up. After all, it is fairly clear from the Socialist Government that they believe that it is best for children to be stuffed in an institution and that parents enter the labour market right at the start. In New Citizens we already tabled a resolution some time ago to secure an employment allowance, so that it was precisely families who were at work, but that they had the opportunity for one to go home and look after the children for the first important years, and there I just get a little curious when I hear the rapporteur here. As I interpret the rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur believes that the rapporteur knows what is best for children when they are very young, namely that they are going to a day-care institution, and I would just like to hear the Socialist rapporteur confirm that, in other words, the rapporteur believes that this is clearly the best for all children.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132528	I don't think you can say that. Well, I guess there's no concept that's all children. Children are different, families are different too. What we are discussing here is whether or not we can say what we should support, what we should use the resources we have in the community for how we organize it best, and we have just said that quite frankly. And that is where we give much more priority to the children's area than the bourgeois parties have been willing to do, and I am actually proud and glad that we have done so. However, we have given priority to them in order to ensure that there are good conditions for the children who are going to day care.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132602	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132605	Yes, and I do not think anyone disagrees with the need to ensure good conditions for the children who are in a daycare institution. Where there is a little mishmash, there is where the Socialists really want to go in and dictate that all parents should practically put their children in a daycare centre. We in the New Citizens' Party would just like to ensure that families have the opportunity to adapt as they would like, even if this means that they want to go home with the children for the first important years. That is why we tabled the motion for a resolution, in other words we as a family had an opportunity to decide for ourselves, because it is extremely difficult for the vast majority of people today with the massive tax burden, which among other things. The government is behind this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132637	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132641	It is true that new citizens, and I think the Liberal Alliance too, have tabled a motion for a resolution which, on a long stretch, will in fact have some of the effects of this motion for a resolution, and there is, of course, some sort of breakup. This does not alter the fact that we do not force any children to go to the day care institutions that Mrs Mette Thiesen is trying to give the impression. Of course, this is entirely up to the parents.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132702	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132706	Thank you. It has been a pleasure to make these major improvements in the area of children together with the Social Democrats and the Support Parties. We've been happy about that and we're not going to wind up these collective cares. But would the rapporteur not agree with me that other communities can also be created? It's not like you're either in a crèche with a lot of kids or you're sitting at home hanging out with your dad or your mom for a hundred years. In other words, many alternative small communities, play schemes and common care can be created. It is, in fact, the local social inventiveness that could perhaps offer lots of other schemes that make it not so black and white.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132746	Yeah, that's right. Well, I definitely don't think it's black and white. What we are discussing is basically where we put in what we spend money on. But it is true that you have the freedom to adapt as you like. There are also children's families working part-time because they want to ensure that they have more time to be with their children, and I think that is a sensible thing to do. And, as I said before, there are also municipalities that make it possible to take care of home, if you like, and I have no problem with that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132810	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132813	But does the rapporteur think that there is something socially beneficial about giving families the right to actually take care of their homes and get the money they pay in taxes instead of paying them to a day's institution? Imagine that some of the derived effects were actually socially beneficial, for example. are allowed to stay at home in the children's family and perhaps be less pressured and care for your child while it is very small, together with others, perhaps play arrangements etc.? Can there be anything socially beneficial about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132846	That is, in fact, what I think parents have to assess, and that is why there are different ways of adapting their daily lives as they please. But maybe I don't think that's how we usually discuss it there. In other words, it is like asking whether you have to demand health care because you have paid taxes. No, we give priority to the funds, so you can't say that. In other words, we are contributing with what we can and then we are making public arrangements that are best possible. So it is not the case that there is a return note on the tax revenue after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132921	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we move on to Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429132929	Thank you for that, President. In the Left, we think it is good and important that there are alternatives to day care institutions so that parents can choose for themselves how they want their child to be cared for. The motion for a resolution here proposes that 90 per cent should be used. of the public allowance to a day-care centre must be able to follow the child in order to enable a parent or other caregiver to care for the child. It is, of course, the case that there is already an opportunity in Article 86 of today's Act for municipal councils around the municipalities to decide to allow parents with children aged 24 weeks and until the child's school start to opt for financial support for the care of their own children instead of a place in a day offer. As I said just now, it is about two thirds of the country's municipalities which are currently taking advantage of this opportunity. In the Left, we very much welcome the fact that many municipalities are putting the offer into play. We support local self-government and we really believe that the current legislation seems to be working satisfactorily. The possibility available today in Article 86 of the Today's Offer Act has a number of conditions attached to it. As I read and understand the motion for a resolution, these conditions will be lifted. It is certainly not for me to see in the comments of the draft law how it should be dealt with. If the idea is for some of these conditions to be lifted, we in the Left find it problematic. One of the conditions of the law is that parents are not allowed to receive public transfer income while receiving money to care for their child. And we know from research that the longer you are away from the labour market, the more difficult it is to come back. Right now we are experiencing a boom in society, and we are also experiencing some of the best conditions for getting our feet on the labour market. This also applies to the long-term unemployed. We should be careful not to gamble with that. Another passage in section 86 of the Act is that if you care for the child at home with grants, you must have sufficient Danish knowledge to develop the child's Danish language skills. We know that there are parallel societies in Denmark where Danish values are not counted and Danish values do not count. And it is no good for us to give financial support to parents who potentially isolate themselves at home with the child and do not speak Danish with the child. This will make the child less able to cope in school, in society and so on. We in the Left recognise that there is an interest in a system which is being proposed today, and which we take the liberty of saying a little along the way at least there are already, but we have, as I have tried to outline, some concerns. Furthermore, it is important for me also to point out that we in the Left want to maintain local self-government, including in this context. On this basis, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429133257	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429133301	Thank you. With regard to the conditions mentioned by the rapporteur of the Left, they are not included in our resolution. We're not going to change those things. The rapporteur cannot find this in the resolution, so I do not quite understand why the rapporteur is referring to them. But in any case, this is all about being able to take care of your child for 90 per cent. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take any action on this matter. That's what we're saying. And then I thought that the Left would be a party that weighed personal freedom really, really, really high. So I had actually expected to find support from exactly the Left, which usually says that it is up to the individual to decide how to shape his life.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429133344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429133348	It is a good thing to clarify that the conditions also apply. I had trouble reading it in the notes fair enough. In relation to personal freedom and to freedom, we believe that that freedom is, of course, present in the legislation today. We've just asked the municipalities to manage it. In other words, municipal autonomy is a matter for the Left, and we can see that two thirds of the country's municipalities actually offer some offers to the parents. We are quite confident about this in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429133420	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429133423	Yes, but is the Left not part of what I would call the Social Democratic Force with a smile? For is it more important for the Left that the municipalities have autonomy than that the individual citizen decides his own life? Will the Left not be part of this patrimony, where the municipality knows what is best, and that is where we start, instead of giving the citizen some rights, because the citizen actually knows what is best for the citizen and the citizens' children?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429133447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429133451	I am happy to smile back and say that no, the Left will not be a part of, we shall call it the Socialist hamster wheel. We've seen this work now for a number of years in the municipalities. It is a Salomonic solution • I think the Minister also mentioned the • which has been found by a majority in the Folketing, and we see that it is working. We're quite comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429133513	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which means that we will move on to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429133526	Thank you. In today's motion for a resolution, I should just have read the glasses at an extra time or two, because one could almost be completely worried about whether it came from the blue block. That is also said a little in a tease of tone, because in fact we agree that it can be really challenging to be a family for children, and there can be a lot of different solutions that are needed, but which are really difficult with the systems we have today. In fact, we think it is really important that we look at the conditions for families with children, i.e. whether we can give some better opportunities to go down or up in time, depending on what fits into the family situation, and thus help to find a calm in a actually very, very stressful period in one's life. There is no doubt about that. And there is no doubt that for some children it may be very difficult to be in day care, but there we have so many other options too, but in this way we agree that some different solutions can be looked at, but we do not agree with this solution, and that is where we from the SF have a very fundamental position. The fact that we, as citizens, have to walk around with a sum of money and go around and be shoppers in our welfare system, we do not believe that will be the right thing for any of us. We also believe that it will create challenges because it will be entirely on an individual basis, those decisions really have to be made. We have a model of solidarity with our day-care institutions, which helps to ensure a certain basis for the standard and quality of teaching, and it also helps to set a standard for the framework in which children are living; it helps to set standards for the level of education and, by the way, also the training of the next to come, because we need a lot of practical places, so that we have more educators and more educational staff, because that is what we need. So what we are really seeing with this motion for a resolution, and that is what I am most worried about in this proposal, is that it is also a little a bomb under the day institutions, and in reality is one of the most important things in the heart of the SF, namely minimum standards in day institutions. I read very well that the rapporteur agrees with that, and I sincerely believe the rapporteur is, but I just think that with this model it will de facto make it impossible to manage it in practice in the municipalities. So in this way we do not see that parents should carry the money around in this way, because it will also be extremely difficult to manage, because there are more tasks in the sum of money that you get in day care per year. child, than that there is just one person for your child. So, with these comments, I have at least explained a little what we in the SF think about the resolution and what concerns we have and we cannot vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429133841	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Yes, sir. Torsten Gejl at the last minute.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429133845	Thanks, I just made it. And thank you for your speech. Now it is not the case that this cannot be administered, because it works in mini-size in many municipalities; it can be managed there. As far as the day-care institutions are concerned, we have problems getting these minimum standards going, that is to say, actually, so that it could take a little of the pressure off. Well, I don't think there's gonna be a lot of people who use it, but enough for us to get some air. So I'm not so worried about that. But now the rapporteur says that she is also thinking that there might be other ways of bringing a little freedom into this, so that there could be other solutions. Can the rapporteur clarify this a little? Is there any other way for the SF to approach this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429133929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429133931	That was a really nice question... thank you for that. Well, in fact, I think we could be much better at talking about family policy and what kind of structures we have in our society for a family to function. Right now, for a great many families, both parents have to work almost full-time in order to pay the bills that are now. There we would very much like to look at some much more flexible solutions, particularly in relation to going down in time. It is true that I think it was the Minister who explained that you have opportunities if you have a child with a disability or some other challenge. Then you have the opportunity to lose earnings, but it is not quite as easy as I would have liked it to be. We just want some more flexible options in terms of going down more in time, and we would like to support that with possibly a public fund or some other flexible solutions. In addition, we have also talked a lot about the child's sick days, i.e. that you give more space to it, because it is also some of the things that push very much, and there are some children who are very sick at times.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134033	Thank you. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Torsten Gejl the word again?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134037	Yes, thank you, Mr President. And thank you for your answer. Now the rapporteur says that this should come almost from the bourgeois side of the House, but in the alternative we have this desire for freedom, and we also have a huge sense of community. We are green and we are fighting for a common development in that area, but we have that desire for freedom. Does the rapporteur not know the feeling that, when the children are young, you would like to be allowed to decide for yourself a little more instead of the small grafts just leaving? If you had it for six months or another year, it might benefit you, but especially the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134115	I'm the mother of three children myself, and now they're thank God and promise older, because it's just a hard and stressful period. So I myself have been standing there for exactly that time, and there I can just say as both mother and also educated educator that one of the most important things that has been is that I have known that where I sent my children there was a proper quality, that there were some talented adults to accept them and that there was enough time and space for it. But the flexibility of being able to turn it down during some periods I also have three pennies of kids... maybe that's what we'd be looking at if I had to say it on the basis of personal experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134151	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, which means that we are moving forward, and now it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134202	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the alternative for raising this debate. I think that the Minister already mentioned two of the important arguments in the first reply. One is about the world that opens up to children, and the other is about our common commitment to contribute to the community. I actually think that in my speech I will refer to the third argument, which also takes up a great deal with me, namely equality. It was not long ago that we had a debate in here which was, of course, about recreational education, where Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen said that in the best of all worlds women went home. Mrs Ida Auken and I were falling all the way down the chair and, as I also said, last time we had exactly the same debate, I can almost hear Lone Dybkjær sitting up in the sky raging that after the decades of progress that women have fought for, we are about to bomb it back. I think that what one has to ask oneself when one has that discussion today is: do we want to go back to home, or do we want to go forward where fathers and mothers mean the same in children's lives and where they are equally attached to their children, and where not only on paper, but also in reality, do parents have the same opportunities to make careers, earn pensions and everything else that comes with them? I think I am now experiencing a worrying tendency that it is almost already such in some places in the country, too, where I live, that you are almost a strange parent if you haven't picked up your children by 8 a.m. 15. There is something about the fact that we do not think that we can conscientiously have our children in an institution all day long. Then, of course, you can ask yourself whether the answer is that there are more people who have to go home with their children, or whether the answer is that we must insist that our day care centres are so good that you as a mother and father can go to work for a whole day with a good feeling in your stomach, because you know that there are talented, present adults with your children, and that your children have a good day all day in the institution. The last one is my main priority. In the Radical Left, we want good standards. We have put in a plan that we can add half a time to the minimum standards, that is to say we will spend 1 billion. kr. extra a year to improve our pedagogic education and to ensure that our minimum standards are not just with more adults, but are with trained educators, because it means a lot that you know not only that there are adults but that there is also a strong professionalism to be with the children in close interaction in small groups. As other rapporteurs have mentioned, in a large number of municipalities today there is an opportunity to receive subsidies to look after their children at home, and what we are therefore discussing today is what direction we want to push for from the Danish Parliament. And instead of pushing so that it should become more and more normal for Mom to go home, I would rather push for us to have such good institutions that parents can go to work with a good conscience and thus increase equality and not reduce equality in Denmark. The Minister concluded by saying that she usually has a proposal for a compromise, but that she could not see one right here, so I would like to try to give my opinion on what we could work on together. Because in my party, the Radical Left, we have a continuing debate on what structures we can create around good children's life and good family life, and I would like to be involved in a discussion of what structures it is that both mother and father have more time and are attached to their children, so that we do not end up in a situation where we bomb back developments instead of making progress. So the Radical Left cannot support the proposal, but we would very much like to continue that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134606	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134611	Thank you. You have to hear a lot before your ears fall off. What the radical rapporteur is actually saying is that it is the radical rapporteur and the state who must decide how to give priority to families; so we are afraid that there are some liberated women who actually want to go home with their children sincerely and of their own free will, but they simply should not be able to do so, because the Radical Left knows better. What kind of attitude is it to have towards Danish families? When you are a free person, you also have the opportunity and have the opportunity to choose for yourself, so what is the strange thinking of the state, which the Radical Left stands here and advocates?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134657	But it is quite wrong what New Citizens say, just as it was quite wrong what New Citizens asked other rapporteurs about. Nobody wants to take that opportunity from parents. What we are discussing today is: what is the direction we are pushing to take from here on the part of the Danish Parliament? In the Radical Left we do not share the picture that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen drew the impression that in the best of all worlds Mom goes home. In the Radical Left, we want men and women to be free and equal, that they have the same opportunities to make careers and earn pensions, and that, moreover, they do not matter in the lives of children. That is why we give priority to the money that we distribute here by the Danish Parliament to create good day institutions instead of going the other way. But the municipalities are allowed to do so, and they are doing so, and nobody is going to change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134744	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134747	Now I think the rapporteur is completely confused, because the last time I checked was Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen certainly not a member of the New Citizen. So I do not know what it is that makes the rapporteur begin to bring it, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen has said before into it. What we in the New Citizens' Party are saying is that we want to set up an employment allowance so that as a family you can choose for yourself if you want to go home with the children for the first important years. There you can choose entirely as a family, whether it is the father, the mother or, incidentally, another family member for the cause that chooses to go home with the children. Because then it's out there with the families. Why will the Radical Left not give this economic priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134821	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134823	When I mention Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, it is because it is he of all the different rapporteurs who has advocated different models for more people to take care of their children at home who have said it most clearly. For he has said: In the best of all worlds Mom goes home. And this is not the way I think development should go in Denmark. In the Radical Left, we are proud of the progress that has been made, for the liberation of women, and I think it is important that equality is not something that is merely theoretical, but that it is in fact that men and women have the same opportunities, and that is why it is of course important which direction we are pushing to move in here on the part of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134900	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429134904	Well, we do not agree with that statement by Alex Ahrendtsen in the alternative. This proposal has actually been put forward by perhaps the most feminist party in the parliament, so it is not because we want to reduce equality between men and women in this way. It is an institution in which we hold to personal freedom, that is, that people can do the best they can in relation to their children. So can men, and from here I call on men to do that, and I do that every time I talk about this. So does the rapporteur not see that it is not just about the fact that there is a bomb under the system and that now we are bombing equality 100 years ago? Well, it's a little square rhetoric. This is a balance. This proposal has been developed by people in the Alternative's family group, who are actually very, very committed to equality. However, does the rapporteur not see that there may well be another type of balance that is about giving people the opportunity to do what they really are passionate about, and on the other hand, of course, ensuring equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135008	Yes, I fully share the dilemma, and I am sure I know some of the people who have helped make that proposal, because they are also in my party. Therefore, it is also important for me to say here that I think we have a task in finding structures that will make it more equal for women and men. For the model that the alternative will provide here will mean that more women will go home, who will not earn the same pension, who will not have the same opportunities as men, and, moreover, it will create a distortion in relation to who is associated with the children and who the children are experiencing as their closest adults. That is why I think we really have a task of going back and thinking: how could we create structures that made it equally attractive for men and women? Because it's not enough that it is in theory. It has to be so in reality. And as long as we have a situation where men typically earn more, all sorts of other reasons why it is they who stay at work, and the woman has had most of the maternity leave and thus she is the one who does so, it will increase inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135114	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135119	One thing I really liked at the end of the rapporteur's speech was this opening-up to discussing things... find a room to find out: can we perhaps give a little more freedom without any of the disadvantages that the rapporteur also mentions, for example. Is equality an issue in which the alternative is also interested? Can the rapporteur go a little further down that road: do radicals have any ideas as to what could be brought in by constructive things in such a debate to care for this freedom a little without hitting those negative consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135145	One of the things I have looked at myself when I was working on our family policy was whether you could really have an account with yourself, where during your life you would be able to work a little more flexibly, so that you could say that during that period, you might be able to work a little less for in return, so to owe a little to the bank and have to work a little more when the children grew up, so that it was the same model for men and women, and so there was the same incentive to be more at home and more at work. So we can discuss these kinds of structures.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135218	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we are now on to Mr Beazley's report. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135228	We in the Enhedslisten in general are not supporters of models where the individual citizen can choose to replace the funds we use in different welfare institutions and offers for money amounts they can bring with them for self-chosen schemes. We believe that the cornerstone of our welfare society must be publicly-run offers and institutions, whether we are talking about schools, day-to-day services or other welfare services, but I would like to emphasise that I would very much like to be supplemented by other types of offers, institutions that ensure that there is a high quality of services for citizens. The examples are obvious, however, that I will mention them: we support the free world of schools, because we think it is sensible for parents to be able to make the choice, and we ensure with the free school legislation that we have made that there is high quality. Everything doesn't look like in primary school, everything doesn't have to be exactly like in primary school, but there has to be the same quality. Similarly, we have degrees of freedom in relation to the self-serving day-care institutions, including the private ones, which we do not like very much in terms of profit, but which also ensure that the public funds we use ensure that offers live up to a quality that makes it reasonable for us as a society to spend Community funds on it. This also means that we are not in favour of using public funds for school, day care or care services which do not meet the quality that we believe there should be in teaching and teaching work. We are, for example. are not in favour of using the money for private care schemes which are not intended to meet the educational quality requirements. Now this proposal has been formulated so that it could be private care schemes that can be described, you can form associations etc., and it also relates to the scheme that is from § 86 and some paragraphs further in the Services Act, which is exclusively about caring for your own children. So it is moving a little bit in a field where it may be a little uncertain what exactly it is, but I would say that in addition to what I have said about what we need to use public welfare services for, I think it is very sensible that we make funds available so that parents are given more opportunity to be with their young, not least when they are small. We want to improve maternity leave arrangements, and we would very much like to see parental leave arrangements that were better than what they are. A great deal has been agreed upon, so there are employees' choices, but we would also like to see more public funds in it. We think there should be better conditions for the care of sick children. We often look to Sweden and look with envy, which is an ugly thing, so perhaps it is not, but at least Sweden is an example of inspiration and follow-up, in other words, the way in which children's families are able to be with their children in different arrangements in the neighbouring country. However, a general scheme in which we say that at the very beginning of the child's life, from a very early age, the day-off age, until the child is going to school, the parents have access to funds as part of a public task, we are simply not in favour of. I am not going to unfold it further, because I broadly agree with the comments made by Mrs Lotte Rod that we must at least be very careful about the whole issue of equality. If we go back to the time when section 86 with more were introduced into the Service Act, which they were under then, because they were not under the Daily Offers Act, precisely the equality element played a very central role, both for the Radical Left and for the Enhedslisten in the debate, so I was pleased with Mrs Lotte Rod's remarks, and I broadly agree with them. So we have a great deal of sympathy that parents should have better opportunities to be with their children when the small ones, we are in favour of that, but this scheme, where the money just goes with it, we are simply not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135725	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135729	This is not an attempt to sneak private care in through the back door. That's not what we're trying to do here. We're trying to give a personal freedom. The rapporteur says many times that the Enhedslisten is not in favour of it, and I knew that. But I'm trying to figure out how to work inside when you're not in favour of it. What's the feeling? What are the arguments against giving parents the freedom, perhaps in the first year of the child, if they consider that it is the best, the best for the family and the best on many parameters, to actually stay at home and be with his child?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135812	Well, as I said, we would like to see both better maternity leave arrangements and better parental leave arrangements. It is also a question of what income is needed to be at home. Because even if daily offers cost a lot of money, one has to say that if it is a single child, it is, after all, limited what one gets. We also believe that there should be a better livelihood there. If there is not sufficient financial coverage of the leave arrangements that we then choose to have, yes, then it can very easily have the gender balance, as Mrs Lotte Rod points out. And then, of course, we can ask whether it is reasonable that there are major differences between men's and women's salaries. No, it is not, but it is a fact that it is so, and therefore there will be a tendency that with a benefit corresponding to the cost of a day-off space, it will very often have a gender bias.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135908	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135909	That's the last thing we're up to. There is also caring feminism. After all, there are many ways to want your child the best without compromising on equality. I understand the rapporteur's position, but it is clear. What I'm trying to get in the back is why it's that Enhedslisten won't give the families that freedom. I know that the rapporteur has a little to say about this. But do not the system requirements sometimes tighten around the neck when you completely renounce the opportunity to discuss it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135948	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429135949	No, not at all. After all, the parents must do what they want. What we are discussing here is to what extent it is a public task to finance it. That is where I would prefer us to have arrangements where, in fact, there is also a sensible economy. This prevents it from getting the gender imbalance, and then we can also discuss the extent to which we should generally be able to replace what we otherwise use for public services that the individual can get as a bag of money in his hand. So we are not in favour of the latter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429140024	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429140041	Thank you to the alternative for raising the debate here. In the Conservative People's Party, we are always ready to discuss how to create more freedom for families to adapt as they please as a family. We ourselves made a financial bill for 2002, where we had earmarked money for home care in relation to the 9 weeks earmarked maternity leave. We therefore agree with the intention of the proposal on the possibility of caring for your own child. When we come to vote against the proposal, it is because there is uncertainty about the economic consequences of the proposal here. This requires a more thorough examination, as the proposal is probably linked to an additional cost for the municipalities. The economic aspect of the proposal here is certainly not entirely clear, and that is something that needs to be examined in greater detail. That is why we are not going to support the resolution here, but, as I said, we are always willing to discuss how to create more freedom for families to adapt as they wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429140200	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429140202	Thank you. So are we, and let us hope that it goes the right way just as quietly, regardless of the majority that will succeed in doing so. The economic issues or concerns that the rapporteur has, what are they related to?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429140219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429140220	Well, it's that I've been trying to see what the economy was like in this proposal, and I actually think that's a little difficult. At the same time, I have looked back in a note made last October on the economic consequences of the introduction of home-care allowances, and I have simply not been able to fully understand the financial consequences of this proposal, and that is why we say that we are not voting in favour of the resolution here, even though we share the intention of more freedom for families to adapt as they would like, including the care of their own child at home, if they so wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429140304	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429140306	We currently have a temporary small party organisation, so we are not in a position to do all the calculations. However, I can inform the rapporteur that we do not see that it costs a great deal, because that really means just that the money that the municipality usually pays to the day-care institution, or the subsidy to have your child, comes back to the parents, or that is to say. 90% of the money, so that the 10%. go to administration. That's the way it is. So instead of 85, it's 90 percent. Where is it that the rapporteur sees an irregularity in that funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20220429140345	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429140346	Well, it is not really an irregularity and I fully understand that it also takes a lot to sit and calculate such a motion for a resolution. I have also looked at exactly what the alternative proposes with the 90%. and 10%. au administration. I just still find it a little difficult to see exactly whether this will have an economic impact on the municipalities. In any case, we need to have economic control when we come up with such proposals, where we share the intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429140421	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which is why we can now move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429140437	Thank you. The proposal here has an interesting intention. There is no doubt that it makes sense for a great many families, for just them, to take care of their children at home, either the mother or the father, perhaps for a period, perhaps for a long time. It is good that we are trying to ensure the widest possible framework for families with children, for the core family. It must be as easy as possible to organise family life in an appropriate way. There must be a good framework for children, so that there is room for caring and for love and, in addition, for play, learning, education and education. The fact that we in the Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution as it stands is due to two things. First, there is the question that has also been raised by others about municipal self-government, where it should be the municipalities that decide on a matter such as child care. Local self-government is an important principle that we should not just throw overboard every time we are dissatisfied with the way something is done locally. It is up to the citizens of the municipality concerned to express their own concerns, their wishes and their dreams. I don't want everything solved here from Christiansborg. But the main objection we have is one, we think, justified fear that Muslim families with many children will use the scheme to go home and thus continue their parallel societies, where both mothers and children are locked in their homes. This is not necessarily possible today, when the municipality decides how to run the childcare area, but by allowing the grant to follow the child in these parallel communities we risk isolating children in families who cannot speak Danish, instead of letting them enter the Danish society where they will meet Danish children, the Danish language and mostly Danish culture. So if we in the Danish People's Party are to support this or similar proposal, we need to solve the problem of defining the area. And how it can be done is, I think, a very difficult question to answer. However, as the proposal stands here, B 111, we in the Danish People's Party cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429140700	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we have now come to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429140731	Thank you, President. After all, it is not every day that we get a resolution through. I think I've tried it three or four times in seven years. So I guess I didn't expect that. When it is the case that you do not do so, it is nice that there is a constructive debate and that you look at how we could move on in this direction somehow so that everyone could see themselves in it. Because this is an attempt to create a little freedom for us to do a little more with our children as we would like. In the alternative, we would like to give more responsibility for the Danes' lives back to ourselves. We can feel this system society getting a little too cramped once in a while, a little too paternal. So even if we love the community, even though we are opposed to economic inequality, even though we are in favour of environmental and climate and natural improvements, and that people need to be properly at their workplace, then you can actually have a sense of freedom that makes us think that people need to get a little out of this systemal straitjacket. I sometimes think that we have a little too well-regulated a society where individuals have too little to say about important things in their own lives. One way to do this is to give us more responsibility when it comes to caring for our children. Will we send our children to day care? Will we take care of them ourselves? Will we set up parent groups and associations where we go together to look after the children? Will we form play groups for children on a weekly or daily basis? In fact, we are opening up all these possibilities through this motion for a resolution, which is about to charge 90%. of the money follow the individual child until school age, so that the parents can choose the form of care that they think is most beneficial to your child. With this proposal, parents can get the tax dollars they pay to have their child cared for in day care. The amount will vary from municipality to municipality, as municipalities have different costs to run their daily offers. But according to our calculations it could, for example. will be 8,000 to 9,000 kroner. in local authority X. The alternative resolution here supports a development that is already under way. Today there is great interest among the municipalities and families of children in allowing the money to follow the child. In 2017, 39 out of 98 municipalities allowed the money to follow the child. By 2020 that figure has risen to 61 municipalities. However, it is only possible to allow children to use the scheme for a minimum of 8 weeks and a maximum of one year. The amount of the grant may be fixed by the municipal council itself, up to a maximum of 85%. of the grant. Here it is that in the alternative we will make a small adjustment that actually creates a great freedom. We're gonna charge 90%. of the money follow the child, then only 10%. go to administration. And then we will ensure that the scheme works during the period in which the child will also be able to be cared for in day care, i.e. from nursery to kindergarten and all the way to school start, if I may put it that way. And crucially, we want to make it a right. It must be a right to which all parents in Denmark have access within the current legislation. The proposal has several different advantages. On the one hand, as I said, it creates more freedom and self-determination for children's parents, where more people are likely to take care of their children at home or with others in the earliest years of their children, and on the other hand, the pressure on daily allowances will fall if more parents find alternative forms of care for their children. Right now there are so few adults per. children in day-to-day offers that we have to introduce minimum standards. And it also creates equality between municipalities if the scheme becomes national. Right now, the families of children are looking for the municipalities which provide the best opportunity to take care of the children themselves at the beginning of their own lives. I would like to thank Conservatives for taking a positive view of this. I think we can solve this detail about funding. And I could tell from New Citizens that they were positive. You've had to leave, so I dare say thank you to them. I would also like to thank you for a good debate, in which people have actually been able to contribute constructively to how we could then do it in a different way and a third way and a fourth way. But the idea that children must thrive, while our society must function in terms of equality, work and so on, is, after all, a common hope that we have here in the Folketing. So thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429141203	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429141227	As you know, there is no minister in this area, it is of course the sole responsibility of the Folketing. I will then try to listen carefully to the debate on the proposal, which will be dealt with later in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The debate is open. First, it's sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429141245	Thank you for that, President. Yes, that is true, it is a rather special situation when there is no minister on it, and what, if you may say so, is an internal matter. It is also a little difficult, I must be honest and say; I am not quite sure I understand. Sometimes it is very clever that the debate should be rounded off with those who have tabled the resolution. In this round, it may be a little backwards, because I think I could use Mrs Lotte Rod's speech as a guide to what you want. What I can read is, of course, that it is intended to support a structured dialogue with researchers, that is, between researchers and politicians, and that we must ensure that research is both colourful in terms of political trends, but, above all, that political discussions take colour from the research debate and evidence and development that is in the field and specifically in this context in the field of children and education, in the field of teaching, some of the things that we have together put more money into strengthening, in other words child research. I very much agree with the Radicals and the SF and others who have been involved in that discussion, because it is really important that we have our political discussions and resolutions supported by research evidence and evidence and something like that. I would also like to say on behalf of the Social Democratic Party that I am somewhat sceptical about whether this is the right way to do it, because I think that, as Members of Parliament, we all have a working mode in which we meet with researchers as well as with interest groups and with colleagues and with ordinary citizens and with all sorts of information about the political choices we are making. In this context, I do not see researchers saying no or that you cannot get in touch with the information you want. On the other hand, we all see that there is an incredibly high level of attention and that sometimes it can be difficult to reach all the meetings you like to have. I therefore believe that those who would give priority to meeting in such an association are, of course, some of those who, of their own motion, would actually give priority to meeting with some researchers. Therefore, I am a little unsure whether this really solves a problem or whether it just creates a structure that makes the research-based dialogue, many of us already seek out, will be sought out by those who would like it, and the others will not really change anything in relation to it. So we are immediately sceptical, but of course I look forward to having a discussion in committee on what could be passed on to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Bureau if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429141529	Thank you. There are no brief comments. That is why we move on to Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429141537	Thank you for that, President. In fact, we in the Left believe that there are some exciting elements in this resolution, but perhaps I am also in line with the Social Democrat rapporteur, namely that it would actually have been nice if the Radical Left rapporteur had started standing up here and perhaps had answered some of the questions that I have at least. It is, of course, difficult, I would have said, to disagree with this, because who would not want to make decisions in this Chamber on as enlightened a basis as possible, and I actually sense that this is the aim which is also set out in the motion for a resolution. We in the Left need to find out some things about the motion for a resolution here. We want to see, among other things. To clarify what really benefits we can derive from such an association, which we do not find in any other way today, for example. VIVE or under the auspices of the DEA. We also have a number of government agencies with researchers and specialists whose expertise Parliament already draws on. As the motion for a resolution shows here, the proposers have taken the idea of forming this association between politicians and researchers from Finland, and we sincerely believe that it is exciting to dive into what experience has been gained in Finland. I have tried to do so, but I must also say that the background material on the Danish Parliament's website may not be much wiser. I have also been in the process of google searches of my own, and it's actually hard to find quite a description of this association from Finland, which is, like, the foundation of the proposal here. There's a little bit in English, and there's something else in Finnish. I can tell from today's platform that exactly the Finnish language is not the main competence. So I didn't get that much smarter. For the Left, as I said, it is important to clarify whether the conditions for an association are in fact the same in Denmark as they are in Finland. Here it might be interesting and relevant to look at whether the Finnish Parliament, as we now have here, has governments and state research institutions that they can draw on. Do they have the same tradition of calling researchers and experts for consultation and other matters in the committees? It is important for us to clarify some of these things before we adopt a final model for a possible association. I have also noted that the Reform Commission, which made its latest publication of recommendations last week, recommends the creation of a new Education Council. A thought could be whether there is a possibility or a reason to think these two different proposals together in some form of solution. It was perhaps more of an open question, including to colleagues in the Folketing. As I have said, we in the Left are not opposed to the motion for a resolution and we look forward to the further examination of the committee, where we hope to be able to learn more about the content, organisation, benefits and possible funding of the initiative here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429141919	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I am thinking, as a result of the two rapporteurs who have been so far, of the fact that there is nothing in the Rules of Procedure to say exactly what the rapporteur's line should be, and should this situation arise some other time, one might consider that the rapporteur for the proposers started the debate. I think we should consider this further if we are to have the Rules amended at some point. We're moving on now, and this is Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429141941	Thank you. It is always good to learn a little about Parliament's Rules of Procedure here on a Friday afternoon. Knowing that this is also an option might have been very rewarding. I very much agree with my two previous colleagues that I have also had a great deal of doubt as to what this proposal actually meant. In other words, we want to create an association of politicians and researchers across the fields of children, education, education and research, and indeed it sounds like a good idea that we should involve researchers even more, because of course we want to ensure good conditions for the decisions we take here in the Folketing; that is clear. All research and knowledge sharing is worth gold to us politicians, both when we come to make legislative proposals, discuss in the Parliamentary Chamber or express our opinion to journalists or in election campaigns etc. Of course, an argument based on reliable sources of science creates a greater conviction and provides an incentive to act in an area. But I would also like to say that I already think that we have close cooperation here around Christiansborg across interests organisations, experts, researchers, etc., and I think that a great many of us, including myself, at least, talk to professionals and experts on a daily basis to gain more knowledge in one area when we go to, for example. negotiations or to negotiate things in the Parliamentary Chamber or in the committees. That is why I perhaps also have some doubts as to what this proposal should be, as we do not already do today. We could easily get better at sharing knowledge, but the question is whether it is an association that needs to do so. I think, for example, that the recent developments that have taken place in the government in setting up the School and the Youth Training Association are good examples of places where we actually get some professionals involved, and where I think we could also involve some researchers, and I think that we should do so much more. I am now also dealing with higher education, and there we have also called on the Minister to set up such joint initiatives or joint meetings where we can meet, both politicians and professionals. I think you should do a lot more of that. But I would also just like to say that, although I think that the intention sounds very good, we cannot get enough knowledge in the Danish Parliament to support the decisions we are taking, we are also a little hesitant in our enthusiasm, because I think there is a lot that has not been clarified, and that is perhaps why it would have been a good idea if the rapporteur for the proposers had been the first, but we know this for another time. There is something both in terms of secretariat service and in terms of budgets and everything else, and then I must also admit that I can be a little bit concerned, like the Socialist rapporteur, about whether people are coming. Because we are very, very busy, and I see in committee that there is a decline in participation, and the question is whether we are not at risk of it being the same. In any case, I personally find it a little embarrassing to sit at meetings where professionals have been called in and there are a few members of parliament. And that is not because people do not have a valid excuse to be anywhere else, because we have busy calendars where we have two, three or four meetings at the same time, and then you have to choose. It is just to say that I can be concerned if we want to create a forum that is not being used, but it may also be possible to do something to avoid it. Having said that, I look forward to discussing this proposal further. We are very interested in the SF in promoting critical investigations into decision-making and taking advantage of the results that are found, both in the field of children and education, but also in all other areas of the Folketing, and if we can do better than we are doing today, we are happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429142331	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429142341	I admit that I also had some doubts. Of course, what I had read in Finnish sources helped, and I do not know if Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen needs help with the translation. No. I agree that it has been difficult to see exactly where we were with this proposal and what was of experience elsewhere. It is very difficult to disagree with the fact that we need to work more closely on the basis of knowledge and research, and it is certainly not the case that we do not do so to a significant extent, but there is a need to strengthen it, not least in the field of children and education, and I thought that it might be the minister we would have here, but I can see that it is another structure we have here. Nevertheless, there is an enormous need for this in the field of children and education, and I think we have had interesting discussions both about strengthening research efforts in the field of children, where the proposers and Enhedslisten are in any case very much in agreement that the research effort has left much to be desired, and we have discussed it a great deal in the field of school, where there is a regular discussion on how to use research, and some are leaning towards the very evidence-oriented approach. I'd say I don't. That is not to say that evidence cannot be extremely important, but one should only be careful to transfer research evidence thinking from an area where it is suitable to areas where it is less or less suitable. But it is also the kind of discussion that might be useful when we discuss how we use research in our legislation. So we are certainly in favour of discussing how we can use knowledge and research more effectively. It is also often the case that we have politically more interesting debates when we have a common platform for discussing, so that it is not just visions and guts that control it, but that, on the basis of a common knowledge platform, we can take the real political debates and allow ourselves to be divided by opinion. So, with the comments which may then be rather fluent, like those of other rapporteurs, I would like to say that, of course, it is a sympathetic proposal. I would also like to say that I am very unsure about the whole association structure. I think that, at least as I have thought about it, it may be a very formalistic way of working, and I really think that in areas where the proposers and I have shared experience, we have been good at using the researchers when we encountered problems in a given context, and then for a moment we put aside the political differences and said that let us hear not one, but five, six, eight different research angles on a given issue. So I guess I believe in an ad hoc approach there. If, however, there are good experiences from Finnish, which we can lift in, then there is no reason not to do so. So we are very happy to take part in the further debate on how to apply knowledge and research better in the legislative work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429142730	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which means that we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429142746	Thank you. I am so fortunate that I have been allowed to stand today on this motion for a resolution, which I would like to thank to the Radical Left for putting forward. Much has already been said about the proposal, so I will not repeat that part of it. For the Conservative People's Party, it is always important to have a thorough legislative process and a basic knowledge of the areas we work with and legislate around. Generally speaking, it is our impression that there is already a lot of material available, that researchers, universities and other parties with great knowledge in a specific area are good at contacting relevant rapporteurs, that consultation parties contact us in relation to concrete legal proceedings, and that we have different control bodies, including the State auditors, which bring extremely relevant knowledge. In addition, relevant hearings are often held where members of the Folketing participate and discuss with researchers, professionals and professionals. So there is good knowledge and good institutions that are already doing relevant work that the Folketing could be more involved in its work. Having said that, the model from Finland is exciting, and the fact that one can systematically meet and not only in the context of a specific legal procedure and discuss research can do something. We would like to discuss further in committee how we can collect knowledge from Finland and other countries about what models exist and how to do in other countries. But at this stage we are not ready to support the creation of an association. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429142931	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And that means that we move on to Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429142936	Thank you. As I understand the resolution tabled by the Radicals, the intention is to strengthen cooperation and mutual understanding between mfs and researchers in the country's universities. The idea has been obtained from Finland, where such an association already exists. Now I have little understanding of the Finnish association and how they came to the idea; nor do I know how it all worked before that association was founded. I just immediately think that in Denmark and in the Danish Parliament we have a wealth of opportunities to get in close contact with our talented researchers on a daily basis. We can hold all the hearings we want; we can invite in the committees anyone we want; we can arrange committee trips where you can study the scientific world; and there are plenty of other options. The researchers will know from experience that I am happy to come to the Castle to inform us about what you are working on and where we as parliamentarians may be able to take action. It is clear from the motion for a resolution that a board is to be elected, which then has to meet 6-8 times a year in order to decide on the themes of the seminars. In fact, I am not comfortable with that part of it, because there you can imagine that the board might have a political battle page and perhaps even as spokesmen for an association could provide consultation answers to legislative and resolution proposals and thus act politically. In conclusion, as politicians, we have a duty to listen to all walks of life, and there is listening to experts and researchers for me and for the Danish People's Party just as important as hearing the grass grow, as one of the lateens at Christiansborg says. I don't know, but I think it's gonna be a no from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429143134	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Finally, we came to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429143145	Thank you. I've been looking forward to it. In the Radical Left we believe that we need to think new, and we do so not only with the concrete proposal here, but also with the fact that there is not really a minister in the Chamber; therefore I am glad that the President started by saying that he would listen very carefully. For it is clear that this proposal is about us in the Folketing and also that in this way we can really strengthen our power in the Folketing towards the government knows that we are dressed even more so that we are stronger and that all the political work is not necessarily only done in the ministries, but that we can also do more here in the Folketing. Thank you for your aptly weaning speeches... I will steal the expression from Enhedslisten's rapporteur. I heard the Socialist rapporteur say that we should have a little attention to how this is not just about those who are still meeting with researchers. The Left had an idea that we might think it a little along with some of it that we are still working with. SF also talked about how this kind of thing is going to give something else, compared to the fact that we already draw on many different professionals. Enhedslisten I also heard about this, that it can be something to have a common platform, but that we just have to figure out what can make sense. Conservatives were also open to discussing it further in committee work. And I think that the Danish People's Party also made an interesting point about how we avoid such an association becoming political, because it is not meant to take a room for itself in this way. But when I have made this proposal, it is because I have an experience that we in Denmark lack a place where politicians and researchers meet systematically and discuss the latest knowledge. Because we have many talented researchers and very important research is being carried out in Denmark, and I do not really think that we are using it so much in our political work. Well, sometimes we drag in scientists, as the rest of you have also given examples. I can also remember committee meetings where we have asked researchers to come and present their knowledge. I remember myself very well a meeting where the Centre for Youth Research was in to present what they had found around displeasure. But when I make this proposal anyway, it is because I have an experience that, after all, it is a little coincidental, what we put on the agenda or who just knows who, because we do not have such a system, and we do not necessarily know everything that is going on. So I certainly have an experience that there's knowledge we're gonna miss. As several of you have mentioned, it is today the individual politicians' job to meet with people and also read things, but I also believe that there is a value in that we are together about it, a little as we are experiencing it now in Together about the school, which there were other of you who talked about. I think that the fact that you are in the common space does not only have a value in that we then hear some presentations together, but that we hear each other's reactions to it and have the joint dialogue about it. Perhaps I can illustrate it by giving an example of a place where I think we have missed out on knowledge. We have just negotiated this new evaluation and assessment system at school, and do you remember that, prior to the negotiations, a very thorough analysis of such an advisory group was actually carried out with some of the leading researchers? Do you remember when we started the negotiations that we were given the recommendations? And do you remember how much that knowledge actually filled in the discussions we had afterwards? Not much, is it? I had actually forgotten it myself, and I was first brought to the attention of a researcher who asked me what kind of knowledge we had used in the negotiations. At first I was really so embarrassed that there had been this enormously thorough work of extremely good people, and that we had then used it too little. And then I thought that it's like it's not just me, it's wrong with • it's something about the structure of how we actually use things. Of course, one can always ask: Do we have to make an association? We could have just dragged the researchers into the beginning of the negotiations; we could have invited them into the committee; we could have done some of the other things that the Danish People's Party says. But it was like not on the radar, and I have at least an experience myself that I actually don't have an overview of how many talented scientists we have around in the different environments I just don't know who they are. That is why I see with envy Finland, where since 1970 they have had this association called TUTKAS, which also creates systematic cooperation between politicians and researchers. We have often talked about Finland here in Parliament too. We've talked about their good schools, we've talked about their teacher training. And I think that in this debate we have really underestimated what it means for how well Finland is doing, that they have this association and this close cooperation between politicians and researchers. In Finland, the association is huge, so there are thousands of members, 800 researchers and 200 MEPs. I think that we could do it a little less in Denmark, but I really like the idea that they meet once a month, because that means that you get to be incredibly close and that politicians, every time new research comes, will also be able to be updated on it. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Looking at the fact that we have just held a hearing on inclusion, I think one could try to say: Imagine if we had had such an association for politicians and researchers in the Folketing. Then we would also be able to come in a completely different way both in depth and in width with the latest research, which is, about inclusion, and which would also make us more closely connected and in general just knew more researchers. I think this could be of great benefit both to children and to educators and teachers. So thank you for your comfortable weave speeches. I hope that in further committee work we can try to find each other in working on some models. We could start by doing some tests or trying some things off and seeing what makes sense. In any case, I believe that if we could have such close cooperation between politicians and researchers, it would do something really good for our policy development and that would strengthen the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429143843	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220429143855	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 3 May at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. And I would also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
