ParlaMint-DK_20220506100031	The meeting is open. The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed a member of the Folketing, Anne Paulin, to the National Bank of Denmark, for the remainder of the current term of office instead of a member of the Folketing, Christian Rabjerg Madsen. The person concerned is then elected. Members of the Folketing Per Larsen (KF) and Mona Juhl (KF) have informed me that they want to take the question no. F 33 to prevent the high mortality of the colony. The question has now been dropped.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506100107	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Horn Langhoff of the Social Democrats, who can come up here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506100121	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing today is an essential element in creating the future health care system • a stronger and more binding cooperation between the three central parts of our healthcare system, namely the regions, municipalities and general practice. With 21 new health clusters around our 21 emergency hospitals, we are now creating the framework for patients to experience better coherence in their treatment in the future, and hopefully we will also be better at preventing both admissions and re-hospitals. In short, we are implementing the agreement reached back in June 2021 between the government, the Landsforening of the municipalities and Danske Regions, so that in each municipality both a political level and a professional-strategic level are established with representatives from the region, the municipalities in the region and general practice. And at the level of professional strategy, there will also be representatives of patients and relatives. The Health Coordination Committees and Practice Plan Committees which currently exist in each region will be replaced in the future by a Health Cooperation Committee in each region. As I have said, the aim is to ensure that we work better together across healthcare and ensure high quality for all citizens, so that we no longer have to hear about patients disappearing in this notorious and famous bermuda triangle, which is referred to in health care, between regions, municipalities and general practice. So with this bermuda triangle, there are too many patients who are being discharged and re-installed or are going to be late on the treatment, and this is going to hurt the patients, which means extra treatment and additional stress on our health care. So are we going to solve all the problems with this proposal? Of course we do not. A new structure does not, of course, solve the problems in itself, but it can provide a better framework than we have today, which is why the proposal on health clusters must also be seen in the context of the government's proposals for an overall health reform, in which we want to move health closer to citizens, so that more treatment can take place outside the largest hospitals and more can take place closer to citizens. This, of course, requires close cooperation between the different parts of the health system. That is why we must, among other things: start working on a quality plan for close health care. In the first place, we need to create a quality plan for people with chronic diseases. This could, for example, be in relation to providing dietary guidance, physical training and patient training in the municipalities. And we need to strengthen municipal emergency services so that more citizens can be treated in or close to their own homes. In this way, hopefully, we can also avoid hospitalizations and re-hospitals. Today, one in ten patients is repatriated within a short time after they are discharged from the hospital. So we're going to have to bring that down. Better connections, more treatment closer to citizens, high professional quality across the country: that is the way we must go. It is also about equality in health, because it is to a large extent the weakest patients who are lost when the different parts of health care do not talk well enough. It then ends with a hospitalization or rehousing, which could have been avoided. It is also a question of geographical equality, because with quality plans we ensure a high level of equality in the health care that you meet wherever you live, so that it does not become a postal code lottery, where offers depend on which municipality the patient happens to live in. All in all, then, it is a legislative proposal which sets the right course in relation to the changes that our health services will have to undergo in the future and which we in the Social Democratic Party can, of course, support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506100459	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506100508	Thank you for that, and thank you for the floor, and thank you to the government for submitting this bill, which comes from last summer's agreement on coherence and proximity between the government, Danske Regions and the National Association of Municipalities. By the way, the issue of health clusters was also included in our health reform from 2019. So basically, we are sympathetic to this bill. I would actually go so far as to say that we are in favour because we are trying to create a health service where patients can have a more coherent course of treatment; that is by its very nature good for the individual patient, and better patient courses where, hopefully, patients can avoid being admitted to the hospital if that is not necessary and where the patient is basically at the centre. And imagine, if you could actually use the money more sensibly with this exercise too, by organizing a more optimal patient course. In any case, we need to create more closeness and coherence for patients in a situation where, fortunately, the Danes live longer and longer, but where, unfortunately, we also see more people with chronic suffering. This proposal, as was also mentioned by the previous rapporteur, is about establishing so-called health clusters around each of the country's emergency hospitals, and the health clusters should of course ensure better coherence between regions, municipalities and general practice. This should also lead to several treatments being carried out in the individual Dane's immediate environment. It may be in the hands of the general practitioner. It can be with the municipalities and even in the Danes' own home in the form of technological solutions. Health clusters will consist of both a political and a professional strategic level, involving both the political system in the form of representatives of municipalities and regions, but also of general practice. We support that construction. I think that in the forthcoming work on the legislative proposal we should look at whether it makes sense to involve the life-science industry when relevant, as is also pointed out in the consultation answers, as is the case for patients and relatives groups. In other words, we basically support the proposal to establish health clusters in order to create more coherence and proximity for Danish patients. We also support the proposal to set up the so-called Health Works Councils which, at the same time, will strengthen and simplify cooperation in the regions. Having said that, we in the Left do not believe that health clusters can stand alone. We believe that it is also necessary to strengthen patients' rights in order to create more coherence, and we have suggested to the government, in the context of the ongoing health negotiations, that, firstly, we establish a genuine right for Danish patients to a patient responsible for health, who can, so to speak, hold you in hand, especially when you as a patient go across departments or sectors in the Danish healthcare system. Too many patients today experience falling between the chairs in the Danish health care system. We also suggested to the government that we establish proper packages for much more patient groups, where the courses of treatment, for example, are: for some of the more treatment-dependent chronic patients are described much more clearly in order to provide security for the individual patient. Thirdly, we have also proposed that we start establishing annual health interviews for some types of chronic patients, where, as it were, people get around the individual's life situation thoroughly. We believe that it is good that through the health clusters, if I may say so, we are putting in place the structure of the coherent patient processes, but the second component, which, according to us, also needs to be done, is thus to strengthen patients' rights and opportunities in an increasingly complex healthcare system. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506100939	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506100949	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. The legislative proposal we are discussing here today has had a rather strange way through the legislative process from our point of view. Normally, when we deal with major reform proposals, we have, on the basis of a proposal from the Minister and possibly a Commission policy debate and agreements that result in one or more legislative proposals. This has not been the case here, as it is proposed that the Danish Parliament should simply endorse the agreement reached by the government with the municipalities and Danske Regions on 21 health clusters last summer. Originally, this agreement was intended to have been part of the 2022 economic agreement, but the government then chose at the last minute that it should not be • perhaps because it would then be possible to invite the parties to an information meeting the day before it was presented. Now, one year later, we will then have to take a position on the agreement without having even negotiated its content, despite the fact that the proposal will set the framework for the health reform that we are debating over these weeks and days. In SF we think things should have been seen in a context. The same applies to the treatment of a new law on the elderly and a 10-year plan on mental health. It is both artificial and wrong to separate things, also because the elderly are in many ways the backbone of municipal health care. But it wasn't supposed to be that way. In the SF, however, we have great sympathy for the aim of the proposal to create better prevention and ensure more coherent treatment and rehabilitation courses for older medical patients, runners, mentally ill and double-diagnosed through a more formalised cooperation structure, both at the political level and at the professional-strategic level, i.e.: Between hospitals, general practice and municipalities. Close and coherent health care must be given a boost. That is why the SF will probably also end up voting in favour of the proposal. However, in the SF we will not hide the fact that we would have liked to have seen even more binding cooperation between hospitals, municipalities and general practice than is proposed in the proposal. Because, like today, with the current Health Coordination and Practice Plan Committees, everything has to be agreed, and then you can be worried that patients still have to fight for the right treatment and rehabilitation. And when the development of faster printing and more treatments in municipal emergency and rehabilitation rooms in the home and in general practice accelerates even more, one can be concerned about whether we will have an A and B health service. The agreements must be clear, and emergency rooms, home nursing, general practice and community rehabilitation should be required by the reports provided by the specialised departments and should be able to draw on the necessary specialist knowledge, more than the 72 hours now planned, for example. in the Capital Region. In relation to the future Health Works Councils, SF wants to strengthen and extend the municipal representation. The idea that the municipalities should only be represented by mayors seems a little odd. If we are to strengthen municipal health efforts, then we must also put local politicians at risk, who know something about health, prevention and the elderly in particular. It is not necessarily the mayors who, by their very nature, have much focus on economics and administration. For example, have they agreed to work for this in KKR North Jutland, but should it not also be incorporated into the law? Finally, I would just like to reiterate that the SF is likely to vote in favour of the proposal, but at the same time we would urge that we move slowly so that the negotiations on the government's health reform will, as far as possible, play alongside the committee procedure of L 191, as this law states, so that we can have the country a health reform that promotes prevention and strengthens the close and coherent health care system. It will also be a significant step if we are to reduce the prevailing inequalities in health. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506101357	Thank you very much to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506101410	Thank you, President. After all, we have talked a great deal about the lack of coherence in our health services and the risk that important knowledge will be lost and that as a patient you will be forgotten in the transition between the region, the municipality and your own doctor, the so-called Bermuda Triangle in our healthcare system. If we are to safeguard our health services in the future, it is vital that this cooperation is improved, that communication between all the relevant parties is strengthened and that a decision-making organisation is ensured. That is why this health cluster bill is so incredibly important and we in the Radical Left are happy to support it. It is, after all, the implementation of the agreement that the government has already concluded with Danske Regioner and KL. If we are to ensure the coherence of the health service, and this is what we need to do, it is important that the new health clusters and health committees are made up of representatives from all the relevant organisations. It is also important that patients are naturally enrolled as a party, as it is all about them. We are also very pleased to see that the Minister has adapted the bill so that representatives from general practice are now included. This has been important to us, as it is important that all three parties, region, municipality and own doctor, sit on the table in order to ensure good and close cooperation. The construction, as described here, also ensures local anchoring, knowledge of local challenges and political responsibility, and this is a construction that we in the Radical Left support. It is also important to address the problems of sharing relevant patient data across sectors. Today there are far too many examples of health professionals not being able to access completely relevant data for the optimal treatment, which is why I am very pleased to see that there is a focus on ensuring the legal framework for this very thing to be repaired and again it is for the patients' benefit. Of course, the draft law cannot be seen decoupled from the ongoing negotiations on a health agreement, where, among other things, we are. We need to flesh out the framework and discuss national quality standards, but in the Radical Left we can support L 191. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506101612	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506101623	Thank you for that, President. The legislative proposal we are going to deal with here today is basically about, as some of the previous rapporteurs have mentioned, the question of how to strengthen the structure of the close health care system, and when you read the objective, which states that it must create better prevention of disease and ensure more coherent treatment and rehabilitation courses for, among others. For example, older medical patients, chronically ill citizens and citizens with mental disorders, including citizens who, in addition to a mental illness, have an alcohol or drug abuse, and to ensure greater geographical and social equality in health care, one can only fully agree with the objectives. That is why I would also like to say that the Enhedslist supports the legislative proposal that is before us, but I also think that there are some challenges in it, which are also, among other things, one of the challenges. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen pointed out. I think that there is a fundamental challenge here in terms of creating the structure. We will ensure better cooperation between municipalities, regions and general practice, and I would say that I will also sign that the government has listened to the criticism that general practice was not better involved in terms of structure. I think that has been positive. It is precisely that we can secure a structure and that we can ensure a greater coherence in relation to what is currently in the Health Coordination Committees and the Practice Plan Committees and that there can be a better division of tasks. Basically, I think it is sensible that we should have a skeleton for a new structure which allows responsibility to be taken for the tasks that are moved into the immediate health care system, but the real challenge is, of course, how to ensure that there will then be sufficient funding for it, because we will not improve the conditions of the elderly medical patient, the citizen with a chronic illness, the citizen with a mental illness and the double-loaded, and create more geographical and social equality by changing a structure. We are doing this by providing resources, and we are doing so by attracting staff to ensure that treatment is provided. After all, we do not achieve prevention and treatment with bricks and structures. We do this with specific health professionals who are there to do the job. This cannot be solved by this, and it is therefore absolutely essential that this new structure should also be followed by the provision of funds to provide the treatment that is absolutely necessary. We fully support the idea of national quality standards, but the key thing is that funds will then follow out, and that when we build this structure, we also ensure that there can be some freedom in how to solve the tasks, because there is a difference between whether it is the City of Copenhagen or it is the City of Jammerbugt that has to solve a task. That is why there should also be some freedom for us to agree among ourselves, when the tasks are transferred to the health clusters, whether it is a task to be solved jointly by the region, by the municipality or by some municipalities, just as it is also crucial that we get rid of the geographical inequalities in health that we already see there today. There should be no difference when you are an older medical patient, whether you live in Hellerup or you live in Hjallerup. That is why it is crucial that when we are going to make a new health reform, funds are also being set aside to deal with that inequality. One thing I would like to point out at the end of this debate, and which we will certainly also be taking into consideration in committee, as has also been mentioned by the SF about the representation of the municipalities, is that I think there is in fact a missing element in the involvement of employees. In other words, as the comments state about a patient involvement committee, I think we should consider whether we should not create an employee involvement committee so that we can ensure that the perspectives of the employees are also taken into account. It could, for example. consist of representatives of the health professional organisations and representatives of the health insurance organizations in the region. This would ensure that that perspective was also safeguarded. Because, like the fact that it has been crucial to get the practitioners into the structure, I also think that there will be an important perspective in also ensuring that the employee side of the health service can contribute with their perspectives, because when we are going to create a new structure and when we are going to ensure a better quality, their input and their knowledge and competences are absolutely essential to get involved in this. However, we are going to take this into account in the work of the committee and, overall, we are in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506102116	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506102128	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Minister for presenting this proposal, which we have actually been awaiting, I think. It is true that at the time when the Minister took office as Minister for Health, there were in fact the outlines of something similar to this, that is to say health clusters, with a construction that ensures that the regions with the hospitals are linked more closely with the municipalities, the general practitioners and the specialist practitioners. I hope that the specialist practitioners will also be taken into account here. I think that the proposal put forward by the Minister is a very good move for representatives of general practice to be brought into the political level. I think that is quite reasonable. After all, we have a pressure on health services and, for reasons which are actually a little difficult to explain, the number of requests is increasing in our hospitals. We have been able to see here after corona that there is actually a significantly higher level of activity than has been seen in the past. And I am quite sure that this proposal will help optimize the process of the task solution. We certainly need this because, as I said, we have a lot of pressure on it. We are also looking into even greater pressure because we are aware of demographic developments where there will be significantly more +80-year-olds. It is gratifying that we are all getting older, but with age there are also typically more diseases and more chronic diseases that require attention from health care. We are currently negotiating a health agreement. There should be no secret that we, the Conservatives, are pressing significantly to ensure that all Danes have access to a medical practitioner and preferably a doctor they have chosen for themselves, because it means so much to those who are wrong. We support the proposal and look forward to the committee's consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506102343	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506102356	Thank you. This bill may prove to be very good, and we hope it will. It is based on an agreement on coherence and proximity from June 2021 between the government, Danske Regionser and KL. There are three headings: the establishment of health clusters, the establishment of health committees and patient and family involvement. All three headlines are good and describe a framework, a structure, and under all three headings there are a lot of good intentions. Health clusters must ensure better cooperation between the region, municipality and general practice on citizens' health, perform several high quality tasks in the citizens' community and at the same time release resources for patient care in hospitals. That sounds very good, but how is that gonna happen? How are resources secured and how are they distributed between regions and municipalities? Do you want the money to follow the patient? For then a lot of money will move from the hospitals to the municipalities as patients are sent home more quickly. How is it ensured that there are sufficient staff to carry out the tasks? How will cooperation with practitioners be ensured in order to carry out a greater task with the citizens who come home and have to be cared for and treated in the municipalities? How is it ensured that the patient is followed throughout the course? Much of that will be said by the Minister to be agreed and coordinated in the health clusters, but surely we must also ensure a certain level of uniformity across the country. This will require quality standards for all tasks, it will require training and a clear division of tasks between the various parties. And we know that many of these issues cannot be identified in the ongoing negotiations on health reform, but that is precisely why it is not possible today to decide whether this bill is good or bad. It would be bad if we merely change structures but do not secure the content of structures. But it can be very good if the health reform supports that the health clusters will work. That is why we are also eagerly looking forward to the parallel process of both the debate on health reform and the work of the committee. We need a little more emphasis on the structure before we can decide whether or not we can vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506102629	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506102642	Thank you for that, President. I got to sit down there and think about what actually happens if the Folketing votes no to this. Then the Minister will certainly not have much summer vacation; then we will have to work hard. So if we talk this down the board, you have to go back to municipalities and regions and start over. I do not think we should do that, and it has nothing to do with whether or not I can do the Minister's summer holiday, but because there are actually some good elements in it that are moving this way. This is, of course, linked to the health negotiations we are engaged in, and this is the government's bid with the regions and municipalities to see how they think they can get on with it. We must then see if they are right and see if it is actually going to work. I think it is important that, when we have all these good intentions in this Parliament and also in the regions and municipalities, that we should now do one thing and the other, we do not forget that people need to do the job. And I think we have to keep in mind in this all the time to consider whether we have the staff to do these tasks, and also to say if they are going to solve them here and there is no more staff to do what it is then for some tasks that you may no longer have to solve or which you may need to do more simply. It can, for example, be done. be a reduction in the bureaucracy and administration that nurses themselves point out they have a lot of. So I think it's important to think about that part of it, too, because otherwise you just put more on from in here with the best intentions, but they can't handle that out there in the system. But we are positive, and then we will see if the government, the municipalities and the regions are right about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506102821	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506102846	It's been so fast today, but it's great. After all, the health clusters are something that we have been waiting for for a long time and that we would like to continue working on. But there are also some things that have happened since we, together with the previous government, put in place a plan for health reform. A great deal has happened in the area of staff, and a great deal has also been done about lack of treatment. At the moment we are hearing about people who have amputated members simply because they are not being treated properly in a region. It can develop into not just a scandal, but a megascandale. When we look at the clusters, we also believe that we, who work together in a 6-man group, can support the idea that there are health clusters, but we have some concerns. I have also mentioned this to the Minister. It is my heart child, Lolland-Falster and South Zealand and other clusters, who do not have the same opportunities as in some of the other clusters with major acute hospitals. Lolland-Falster and South Zealand will be part of the emergency hospital in Nykøbing Falster, and those of us who have been in health for a very long time also know the challenges that are with just getting staff for Nykøbing Falster. There have been departments that have been closed because there were too many who died. So, how do we ensure that these clusters, which actually also have the biggest challenges, get the same quality as there are in some of the other clusters? After all, living next to the Rigshospitalet or one of the other large hospitals with all the specialties has always proved to be very good. It's fast, you come in, and you're being treated. But there have always been challenges, for example. Nykøbing Falster. If you came in with a blood clot in your brain, it wasn't always that you were sent to get the right treatment at Roskilde, because they kept you at Nykøbing, and then you could stay there and not get the right treatment. That's what we're afraid of happening. At the same time, it is the region that lacks the most general practitioners. There are regional clinics, and there are doctors who come and are there a few months and travel again to get a great fee. Either way, we need to look at how we can upgrade, so that you can actually go to a doctor safely and get help when you get older and when you have a chronic illness. These are some of the things that we have also talked about must be part of a health reform. Now, let's get some geriatric nurses sitting by the doctors to help a lot of these elderly people. In fact, I have put forward a series of questions which I am sending to committee because I want us to look at the differences that exist in the clusters. It's everything from how many older people there are in the different clusters; how many runners there are; how many general practice doctors there are; how many specialties there are in the emergency hospitals; and how we then ensure that when you live in one cluster and have to move on to another, because that's where the thesis is, you don't come in second place, so that you don't come as fast as those who live in the right cluster. We need to look at how the economy is being used in the different clusters. We usually say that in order to treat patients alike, we need a different treatment so that they can have the same quality. We have to do that with the clusters too. We have to say that in order for all citizens in Denmark to have the same quality, we also have to make an extra effort in the groups that lag behind. There may be other clusters than just the one I've been looking at and starting with, but it's just to say that where you're at home, there's where you have the heart and know the challenges that are. That is why it is important that we get some answers from the Minister on how to ensure this. At the same time, I also believe that we need to look at the differences of opinion in relation to the way in which general practitioners come in. As I see it, they want to be part of part of the cooperation committee. And how do we ensure that they actually become part of it? Because if we don't bring the doctors, it's gonna crumble. As others have also pointed out, relatives' groups and organisations must look at how we ensure that the psychiatrist also gets into this, so it's not just about the elderly and chronic suffering, but also the psychiatrist. I also have a question, of course. Because on one of the pages of the bill it is stated that it is the Minister's responsibility or that the Minister has the right to ensure the details. Now I can't find where it is. However, I would like to ask a question about this, because this issue of giving too much power to a minister without those who are involved in it, we would like to take a little back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506103354	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. The next speaker is the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506103410	Thank you very much and thank you for the comments made by all the rapporteurs. It's the bill on the establishment of these health clusters and health committees, etc., that's on the agenda this morning. In fact, I would like not only to thank the rapporteurs of the parties, but also to thank KL and Danske Regions for a very, very good and constructive cooperation, both in the context of the economic agreement last year, when the agreement was reached on it here, that is to say the framework agreement, but also in the context of the subsequent process, in which we will become more specific in the drafting of the legislative proposal here, which we are discussing today. The purpose is, of course, in the name of creating health clusters as a framework for the changes that we want for our health services, and that is why more people have been talking about this, a central part of our health reform, which we are discussing at this very time with the parties. The problem is well known. We have heard too many times about this: patients who fall between two chairs and feel homeless in the system between the hospital, the municipality and the general practitioner. It can, for example. be the older man who does not receive the necessary treatment in the municipal home nursing when he is discharged from the hospital because the doctors in the hospital do not communicate the need for continued treatment. Or it may be the young woman with a psychiatric condition who will be reinstated shortly after she has been discharged because the municipality, the region and the general practice have not been coordinated with the further efforts. So when it comes to psychiatry, more than one in five admissions are followed by an emergency re-hospitation within 30 days. It's thought-provoking. After all, we must all recognise that there is something better to do. It can also be about the many citizens' lost opportunity to change their lifestyle after a course in the hospital. Here too, it may be because there is no follow-up to the right prevention offer in the municipality. Here we only know that there is a very, very great social imbalance, a social inequality due to the fact that we are not being followed up systematically and thoroughly enough. There are many examples and they stress the need for us to strengthen the structure in order to have a health service that is much more coherent than today. If you look at the development of health services over the last 20 years, you can see that this has been a good development in many, many areas. The characteristic is that there has been an increasing degree of specialisation, and this has ensured high quality treatment. There was a need for this too. At the same time, our patients have been given strong rights that ensure rapid investigation and treatment. And those things combined with a number of other factors have, of course, meant that the number of among others. deaths from cardiovascular diseases and cancer have fallen. This is a good development, and that development must continue. It is also the case that a highly specialised health service is not something that in itself creates better coherence. So it has to be said that perhaps a highly specialised health service is actually something that creates less coherence if nothing is done to ensure that coherence. The lack of coherence has been the Achilles heel of health care for a long time, for years. This means, in concrete terms, that patients are caught up, that too many are reinstated and that there is too much variation in offers across municipalities and regions. We have to do better than that. At the same time, we are facing a considerable challenge. We know that demographic development means that we will have more treatment-intensive elderly people and we will have more patients with chronic diseases. So development also calls for a change both in terms of prevention and where more citizens can be offered high-quality treatment, rehabilitation and care in their own community instead of having to carry themselves over and over again to these specialised hospitals, which must be there when we need them, but which we should not go to if it is not necessary. So more treatment should be possible in the near health care, in your own doctor, in the municipality and in the home, where there is security. We must put pressure on the transition to close health care, and it is against this background that the government, the municipalities and the regions back in June last year agreed precisely to strengthen the coherence, proximity and quality of health care with formalised health clusters around the country's 21 emergency hospitals. So with these clusters, we're going to address some of the challenges that have been affecting health care for a long time; the context and the transition. And the clusters simplify the political and cross-sectoral cooperation structure between the parties. So, first of all, the current structure is simplified. We now have both the Health Coordination Committee and the Practice Plan Committee. They will be replaced by one Health Works Council, in other words one for each of the five regions. And it is described that in that committee representatives from the Regional Council, municipalities and general practice participate. There was one rapporteur who mentioned the problem here, and there were several who mentioned it, but the proposal here is that representatives of general practice also take part in this committee, which then has the task, in other words the entire committee, of drawing up a health agreement and establishing a common framework and direction for the development of cooperation across the health clusters of the region. In this way, the committee must support uniformity and coherence, so that the new structure also helps to ensure more equality in health. Secondly, we must also have a political level in each health cluster, which consists of members of the regional council, mayors or mayors of trade unions from the municipalities and representatives of general practice. And here the direction of the individual health cluster must be set. Local challenges must be addressed. It is also the case that the political level can set independent targets to address the cohesion problems of the health cluster population and any local public health challenges or disease burdens. Because it is quite true that several people have said that it is not the case that the Danes fail at the same level throughout Denmark. There are local, regional differences. For each health cluster there will then also be a technical strategic level with representatives of both the somatic and the psychiatric hospital services in the region from each of the participating municipalities and for general practice. One can of course hear that general practice is therefore with all places where it is relevant. Here, the common patients and citizens must be addressed, with a focus on ensuring concrete solutions for better coherence, quality and transition to close health care. So in the overall health cluster, the local solutions, which are right in the local area and are appropriate to the specific local challenges facing you, must be found locally around the individual emergency hospitals. The tasks will therefore be to take responsibility for the common population in the area of inclusion, to strengthen coherence and to create a better process for citizens who have gone across sectors, to ensure greater prevention and quality and to be the engine of the transition to the nearest health care system. In other words, the health clusters must thereby be a driving force for the changes that we are working on, yes, which are necessary to safeguard our health services in the future. Therefore, there will also be a link to the initiatives that we have proposed by the government with the proposal for a health reform, and which we are discussing with the parliamentary parties, where the new clusters are intended to play an important role in implementation. You could call it an implementation engine to make these things happen. A good example is the proposal for a national quality plan for close health care. It is obvious that health clusters will have a major role to play in contributing to the transition to close health care, while at the same time coordinating the implementation of strengthened municipal health interventions as a result of the quality plan with health interventions in hospitals and in general practice. And then, for example, there can be... be a local discussion of how we get the specialists in the hospitals to contribute medical sparring to the strengthened acute functions. After all, this is the first step in the quality plan, and it takes a great deal of care for many, especially the elderly, citizens when they are discharged from the hospital. So it is for us to see a major role in the process of transition as we prioritise resources to strengthen the close health care system. Then you might ask: what is the new? After all, local authorities, regions and general practice are already working together. And that's right; the staff are making a huge effort to do the right thing for the citizens, so that no citizen should be lost between these silos or between these hands. I just have to say that sometimes it happens anyway that structures do not help, but work against this being possible. So with this proposal, we will have a structure that encourages and supports the right thing to do with the citizen, the patient, and the relatives. It is true that there is cooperation today. That's really good. Let us develop that cooperation and let us strengthen that cooperation significantly, and let us make it formalised, and let us make it legally binding. This means that the clusters are an important step, but it is only the first step on the way to strengthening our close health care and strengthening the structures and cooperation between the being's actors for the benefit of the citizen, for the benefit of the patient. We also need to be honest and say that the health clusters do not solve all problems. It also takes resources to strengthen the coherence, proximity and quality of health care. That is why, in the government's proposals for health reform, we also have to do something about it. has set out to provide more resources for health care, for example. by allocating a larger billion euros for investment in new local hospitals across the country, which should bring health services closer to citizens' own homes. An amount is also reserved in the economic space corresponding to the demographic features of health, that is to say, more patients, etc., which we will translate into the forthcoming agreements and financial laws. And then, in concrete terms, 80 million have been set aside. kr. as common funds in the health clusters for a start-up of the clusters' work, and it becomes such a fifty-fifty distribution between regions and municipalities. So that is the framework for the changes we want; coherence, proximity and quality. In this context, we must also ensure that health care resources are used properly, so that the elderly medical patient is actually caught by home nursing when he or she is discharged from the hospital, and so that the young woman with a psychiatric condition, as I mentioned in my introduction, avoids unnecessary rehousing after discharge. So it is basically about ensuring the framework for citizens and patients to experience more coherence, proximity and quality in their meeting with the health care system. In conclusion, I would also like to acknowledge the input of the health rapporteurs to the draft law so far. We've had a lot of meetings with the Ministry of Health on the bill. So thank you for the input and I look forward to working on the proposal in the Health Committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506104614	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are a number of brief comments, and it is only from Mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506104622	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Health for the speech. I have had the opportunity to turn this issue over with my good colleague and former Minister for Health, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, who could say that when she was a minister, she was torn apart in one conciliation after another by Socialist MEPs, some of whom are actually ministers today, because no money was set aside for the operation of these health clusters. I understand that 80 million has been set aside. kr. Now, as a one-off event, I am so not surprised at the moment that we do not see that there are any permanent means of operation that can be used in these health clusters. When I go down in what our bill usually calls a summary table, I can see that the establishment of health clusters has no economic impact on anyone. When you were in opposition, it was thought that money should be set aside for this on an ongoing basis, so I am just wondering why it is not done now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506104721	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506104728	Thank you very much for the question. I can say in all modesty that I am also taking part in a number of consultations in which I think in my quiet mind: those who call for consultation will also be held responsible one day. But that is quite correct; I think it will probably go both ways. I am not going to stand here and hold a great defence of all the consultations held for four years when I and my party colleagues were in opposition. There can certainly be something where guns were fired for tiny grey sparrows, and whether that is the case here, I simply cannot say. There is funding in this proposal, but it is true that it is step by step, so this will be an implementation engine, but the changes that need to be made must also be financed. We are fully aware of this: something in the first economic agreement, but something else in the agreements that will come after that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506104819	Here you go, sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506104822	Let us put aside what senior ministers have said in the past and something like that. I'm just wondering why there isn't some kind of automatic in this. Because if you listen to some of these people out there, who also know what's going to happen in these health clusters, they say that if it's going to make sense, you have to have a common economy in relation to some of the tasks you have to solve. I think we should perhaps take a look at the committee's procedure to see whether we should not introduce any automatism in relation to what the Minister himself says when it comes to economic agreements and other matters, because I think that this is an important element to be included here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506104858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506104901	Yeah, it's important. It is true, as has been mentioned, that we are proposing to allocate 80 million this year. kr. for a start-up, but it is only a start-up, but then we also suggest that some of the first tasks they get are to implement some of the quality plans that will also be and are funded in our initiative, but they will also come after that and will of course also be funded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506104929	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506104933	Thank you. I think I'll continue a little along the same path as Mr. Martin Geertsen opened here. Because it cannot actually be completely rejected that both Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen and Mrs Astrid Krag, who are probably the ones who have ripped the then minister around in consultation at that time, have had a point, as well as Mr. Martin Geertsen can also make a point today, namely that the challenge is that we will not solve this by putting 4 billion. kr. to build near-hospitals. Patients are not treated or prevented by using bricks or we are creating new structures, but they are doing so by deploying concrete means. So the question to the Minister is actually quite simple, that is to say, if the Minister does not agree that if we are to carry out this task, which the Minister himself recognises is the intention, namely that we should have improved treatment both for the elderly medical patient, for the mentally ill and for the chronicians, then we also require that we allocate additional resources and also more than those that have been proposed in the immediate context of a health reform which the government has proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105040	Well, it can't be rejected at all. It's true that there are people sitting here who are actually onto something across parties, and if you're going to have something to happen in a change, structure is one thing. But if, at the same time, we have to raise quality, and that is what we are trying to do, while at the same time there are more patients, what we know there are, then we cannot imagine each other that we can do it without having to add more money. That is also why I mentioned that it is a fundamental premise of our economic policy that we must keep the money going. So when there are more tasks and more patients, the money comes along, and when it comes to strengthening the quality of quality requirements and new quality plans, the money also follows, and the concrete elements of the government's health initiative are, of course, that we address some of them, but not all this year one. Because, as I said, this is an engine that needs to start, so we're gonna start with 80 million. kr. and also finance two extra packages just to help these chronicle groups that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105141	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105144	Thank you for that, and thank you for recognising that this is also about funding, and I can just call on the Minister for Health to read the quite excellent proposal for a health reform which Enhedslisten presented here yesterday and which I have entrusted to the Minister. There is a guarantee of funding, and there are a great many good points on which the Minister can be inspired. But I would also like to take this opportunity to ask a specific question, and if the Minister is unable to answer, we can take it in committee and I have in fact been in doubt about how decisions are taken in the Health Works Councils. Are they to be done by consensus, or are majority decisions being taken so that municipalities can be required to carry out something that has been decided on in the Health Works Council? And, as I said, it is quite okay if the Minister cannot respond now, and then we just take it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105230	Yes, and it is true that yesterday I personally was presented with Enhedslisten's health proposal. It is not always the case, but yesterday I personally got it from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and we are already reading it through, and there are many, many good ideas, so thank you for that. In relation to the specific question, I have to be absolutely sure of the correct answer. Well, the expectation is that everyone has an interest in solving this, and if a municipality says that it is difficult here or that there is something we want to go against, then you have to find out. But the legal aspect of this is that I have to look into it very carefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105301	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105305	Thank you very much. What I wanted to ask was what I mentioned from the platform about the Minister's powers, and I am always a little nervous when it is that we give too many powers to a minister. That is why I would like to know what involvement the majority has in voting in favour of a proposal when paragraph 5 of the motion for a resolution refers to. 6 states that the Minister of Health lays down detailed rules on health clusters, including assignments, composition, organisation, decision-making powers, meeting cadence and involvement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105335	Well, the organization and the things and who is in it are defined. And Mrs Liselott Blixt mentioned this in general practice, and it is true that it was not part of our proposal, and then there were consultation rounds plus the parties' reports, and then we actually got them in, precisely because we listened, and that is to define it completely. So there are no extra powers that a minister gets here. However, it is clear that if a government can be this government or a future government makes an economic agreement with regions and municipalities that gives some more tasks, of course with the necessary economy for regions and municipalities, in health clusters to lift it, in order to help the runners and catch them better across the country, then you will have to be able to implement the agreements and do so. And it is the case that such an economic agreement must go through the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee. But that's probably the closest I can get to that answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105438	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105441	However, I am always nervous that a minister should be given the power to make some announcements that should not involve the parties that voted for a legislative proposal. However, I would like to clarify this a little more on a number of issues in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105452	The next question is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105457	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister says that a new structure does not solve everything. I think it is a little absurd, for example, that we sometimes talk about uniformity in 21 different ways compared to this proposal. And I think that there is plenty of economy for this particular proposal, I would also like to emphasise. I think the biggest problem is that there is too little staff for too many tasks, and I am actually a little concerned about that, because if we do not solve this problem, it does not matter what we agree on both health clusters and what we agree on in the health clusters. And I think it is important that we get to grips with whether we lack the skills to carry out the tasks. It is important that we clarify who has the health care responsibility for quality. That is why it is also good that we are currently debating health reform and the close and coherent health care system. Recruitment and retention are essential elements for this to succeed at all. So my question is this: what does it mean to have such an agreement in place in relation to the functioning of health clusters?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105605	Well, that's a good question. The health clusters themselves are such an engine, but there needs to be some fuel on that engine. It sets a direction and it sets a structure, but we must then put content into it, and there is our plan that we should do that together, together, in a health reform, in other words, make an agreement on this. It is the government's aim that we should have done that. I also heard Mrs Kirsten Normann's speech about the timing of this. I think it was right for us to make that agreement last year, and I actually think it is something we in the Danish Parliament must sign for. That we, together with Danske Regionser and KL, as we all know, have not been in agreement there has been quite a power struggle between the two organisations, one can be honest and say that we are going to solve this and that we have a model in which we can all see each other, and which the Folketing can also back up, I think is kind of good. It is certainly a fruitful starting point for cooperation that those who have to work together propose it themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105710	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105712	Well, thank you. I think it is a little bit of building the dresser without knowing what should be in the drawers, and I think that is a little bit too bad. I like talking wallless hospitals better because it might give us a little flexibility over what we have to solve. But I have a specific question which I also asked from the platform: will the Minister help to change the law so that we ensure that health professionals around the country will sit in these health clusters, since after all they know something about health? Then we have a challenge with data sharing. What does the Minister think about resolving that particular problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105754	I have actually met with the six largest municipalities in Denmark, in the 6-city cooperation, also on this issue. I thought that was a very fruitful meeting, and some of what they had from input was precisely that there are mayors of trade, and that if it were just the mayor, or whatever it is called in different places, and not the mayor of trade, then there could be a problem. Now we have taken that into account in the proposal here, but I am very happy to hear about it; if we have not hit it one hundred percent, then let us try to discuss it. And the second question we are dealing with in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105828	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105831	Thank you. And, quite appropriately, my question follows on from what Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen said at the end, namely about data. There have been a lot of good questions from the rapporteurs, and the draft law also says that we need to pay attention to the sharing of data across borders. Has the Minister given any thought as to how we can do this in practice? There have been plenty of examples of legislation we have known about for years, of problems that have been well known for years and that have been discussed in here for years, but which have not really been touched upon. So how will the Minister ensure that we are not just going to discuss some problems and then meet again here in 1, 2, 3, 4 years and still haven't solved them?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506105904	It is quite true that the bill does not contain any changes regarding data sharing, but we explain in the draft law that there are opportunities today to share information across healthcare and that we are working to develop digital solutions to support it. But I must also say that there is a justified demand for more information that is shared across the board. Yeah, for example. there is the Service Act and the Health Act. After all, there is a law to share certain municipal data under the Service Act with general practice and hospitals. But sharing data only becomes more important in the future, and we all know it from ourselves or have heard relatives of someone who's been through this, say: Every time we meet a new health person, we must start from Adam and Eve with the disease history and tell it all. They say, for example:: Well we do not have access to the data because it is another sector and we cannot use that for anything. So the challenges will be addressed. That is a very, very important point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110008	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110011	Thank you. I fully agree with the Minister that this is not a new problem, and we have known about everything the Minister outlines from up there for a very long time. I have also read the comments on what to do. There are no proposals for legislative changes here, but we have to follow it and we have to pay attention to it and everything else, they say. And that is fine, but that has been the case in the previous 5, 10, 15 years, and we have still gone away from the same problems. So can the Minister promise that this time we are actually acting on it, so that we do not just create another talking club, another consultation and discuss the problem again, but actually act on this, also across resort areas? After all, the Minister is right that this goes against the Services Act and the Health Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110049	Yeah, that's my intention, and that's our ambition. And if you read our health reform proposals, the two major overall elements are more closeness, i.e. the strengthening of the quality of health care there, and the data. The Danish health data are world-class, and we do not use the data at all well enough today. So it is a theme and I can also say that it is a theme that we are discussing with the parties in relation to what could become a final agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110122	Thank you very much to the Minister for Health. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110137	The debate is open. We shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Rasmus Horn Langhoff of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110147	Thank you. I have looked forward to discussing this proposal in Parliament, because it is a very good proposal which will make a great difference to many young people and which will ensure overall better dental health in Denmark. In the Finance Act, we agreed to introduce free dental care for young people aged 18-21, and it will then be implemented with this proposal. We know that many young people today have not found a new dentist when they leave child and young tooth care. This may be due to the fact that on the day they leave dental care, they are a place in their lives where a lot of things happen. Or maybe they're moving to another town. It is not something you get cared for and get control of. You may also start a new education. You need money, and then not everyone rushes out and goes to a dentist as the first. Therefore, it also makes very good sense to extend the unpaid dental care by some years, so that young people will have a more established life on the day they leave child and young tooth care, and thus also hold onto their dentist, even when they have to pay for dental treatment themselves. Hopefully, this will also mean that many more young people have established good habits of going to the dentist and that even more will take these habits into adult life when they leave the unpaid dental care. Dental health is one of the areas in which we experience a very great inequality in health. In fact, this is the second time under this government that we are taking an important step towards more equality in dentistry. With the 2020 Finance Act, we took the first important step when free dental care was introduced for socially vulnerable citizens, because we know that socially disadvantaged citizens have significantly worse dental health than the rest of the population. With today's proposal, therefore, we have not done away with inequality in dental health, but we have taken another important step and, overall, we have addressed two important areas in which we are dealing with groups which, for various reasons, do not go much to dentists. So the Social Democratic Party backs the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110404	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110407	Now the rapporteur is saying free of charge, but it is free of charge; some people are paying for it. And in this case, the bill says that it is to be expected that private dental practitioners will lose 184 million. kr. Could the rapporteur say something about who the rapporteur is going to expect to pick up that bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110429	It is true that it is not done for free; it is done in common. We extend the dental care system we have for children and young people up to 18 years of age to 21 years. So it will be exactly as we know it today. There will just over a number of years be more covered by the common system where we share the bill. It will cost some money, and that is what is being financed by the Finance Act, and I suppose it is no longer. So the bill will be paid by the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110509	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110511	No, that's not correct. So, it says in the bill that private dental practitioners are going to lose revenue for 184 million. kr., and there's no bill that they'll get that revenue in another way. This means that private dental practitioners out there are losing 184 million. kr., and it's money that they have to pull in with some other people, some other customers, because they can't just absorb that themselves in their system. So I ask: who is now going to get more expensive dental bills because of the fact that private practitioners are now losing 184 million? kr. that they're not being compensated for in this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110546	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110547	Well, I know there isn't much unemployment among dentists. There is, in fact, plenty of work for dentists and dental practitioners today. There's plenty to do. It is not my experience in the Folketing that this should be financed if it is judged that some people or some groups may risk losing money on a proposal. I do not think that is what is being proposed from the New Citizens' Party that we should finance it if we are to fear that some staff groups will lose revenue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110622	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506110632	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the government for bringing forward this bill, which is indeed the result of the 2022 Financial Law Agreement, and this is, in principle, a very sympathetic proposal which can undoubtedly help to increase dental health among the youngest adults, and hopefully it can also help them to be tooth-healthy throughout their lives. What is specifically being proposed is to extend the existing system of unpaid dental care so that it also covers 18-21 year olds. All super sympathetic. But I just want to say that I'm deeply, deeply concerned about the way you've chosen to organize this offer. We are in my party, of course, normally in favour of the free choice between public and private services, but I must say that I am deeply surprised that a free choice system is being set up here which, as it were, takes the bread out of the mouth of private dentists. In fact, this bill envisages that the municipalities can start building capacity to deal with the 18-21 year olds in municipal dental care. Adult people who are being handled today, if I may say so, in the private sector of the dental sector, must then be brought into the municipal system instead of staying where they are today, namely with private dentists and dental practitioners. I do not understand why it is not said instead that we are now equiping young people with a check for unpaid dental care, which they can then use in the private sector, where they have the opportunity to choose between several different private suppliers. In this way, the municipalities will not now have to start to set about organizing some extension of municipal dental care with all the challenges associated with it. The reason why a gradual implementation is proposed is that this will be a confession case for the extended unpaid dental care, in which the scheme will be extended to 18-21 year olds, is that municipal dental care will have time to expand with staff and possibly upgrade the facilities. In this context, the National Association of Municipalities points out in their consultation answer that it is therefore not a simple matter due to a shortage of labour. After all, this whole discussion had been avoided if only the scheme had been concentrated on allowing young people to choose between different private suppliers with a public check in hand. In addition, the government itself writes in black and white that this new system of extending municipal dental care risks losing private dentists up to 184 million. kr. in circulation per year. What's that for? Finally, we find it extremely strange that young people should be kept for another three years in municipal dental care instead of, as it were, pushing them out to private dentists and dentists, whom they really need to frequent throughout their lives. Why do you not set the limit at the age of 18, because they still have to leave after they reach the age of 21? I don't understand. We are going to pursue this lead in further committee work and will probably end up tabling an amendment which will allow the free dental treatment of young people between 18 and 21 years of age to take place in the private sector of our dental sector, a proposal in which the young people in Danish are again equipped with a check and can choose between the private dentists and dental practitioners. The second is simply too much of a hassle and, I believe, risks being even counterproductive in relation to what is desired. The government is just making this incredibly difficult for itself. We could organize this much more simply, and if the Minister has time to listen, we would be very happy to help the government with that. Secondly, the bill states that young people can only choose between municipal dental care and private dentists. The Danish dentists can and must do much, but a little less than the dentists, but dental care is not part of the solution at all. Today, at the age of 18, young people can choose whether they want to be treated by a dentist or dental practitioner. That's why we think it's weird to keep the dental care out of the way. We are, especially when several people in the hearings note that the shortage of staff can become a major problem as a result of the way in which the system has been organized here, quite incomprehensible to opting to keep dental care completely outside the dental treatment of the 18-21-year-olds. It is almost misleading that the legislation is called unpaid dental care when you choose to keep the Danish dentists completely out of the scheme, and is it even legal? Is it legal to keep an entire business out? Are there not some aspects of competition that need to be observed? We're gonna be following that trail, too. I understand that Mrs Liselott Blixt is tabling an amendment on this, and we would like to support that. Just to sum up: this is a sympathetic proposal which can help improve dental health, but the very organisation of the system is, in our view, fundamentally inappropriate for the reasons I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111148	Thank you. It gave rise to a few brief remarks. First, it's sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111154	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I can inform the rapporteur that this is going to be a very interesting exchange of words, because, as the rapporteur himself says, the Left is usually in favour of free elections, while Enhedslisten is opposed to it, understood in that way, if it is forced to be freely elected, where it is private, who can freely choose to make offers, instead of it being about a free choice for the citizen. I think it is crucial that we can offer free dental treatment to young people until they reach the age of 22, and we would also like to extend it. However, I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that, according to the draft law, the freedom of choice which currently exists for 16 to 17-year-olds will continue to apply until they reach the age of 22, so as to be free to choose whether to accept the offer which is now offered free of charge by the municipal dental care, i.e. whether to take advantage of it, or whether to accept the offer where to go out and take advantage of a private dentist. In other words, the free choice system will continue to exist, and I also assume that the Left is not of the opinion that we should abolish municipal dental care for citizens up to 18 years of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111301	I can confirm everything. I don't know if you can say "fuck" in the lid of the Parliament's platform. Fourth Vice-President No). You can't do that. I would have said that, but you can't say that. I just think it is foolish that we are now really starting to encourage local authorities to build up local capacity. Why is this even necessary? Why is it that these young people are not provided with a check? There is plenty of freedom of choice out there, because there are plenty of private dentists and there are plenty of private dentists. Why is it that one partout is going to expand the municipal sector further in this field? I don't think that's necessary. I see it as nothing more than an expression of pure ideology, and that is fair enough, but it is just unnecessary in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111348	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111349	Thank you. After all, it is the rapporteur of the Left who is using ideology, because here there is a question of extending the rights of citizens so that they can have free dental care. We're expanding capacity. Then the rapporteur has an objection to this being done in public where we can secure a qualified public offer. The rapporteur wants it to take place in private rather than in private. That is an ideological resistance to giving citizens extended rights. Because that is exactly what we are doing: citizens will have extended rights and we will ensure that we increase capacity so that it is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111425	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111426	But KL itself points out that there are some capacity problems here, and the reason why you are gradually implementing this is because you know that there are a lot of implementation challenges coming because the capacity is not out in the municipal system. But it's in private, because it's where the young people go to the dentist today. Why is it that you have to build a whole new system? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111458	You can't say damn it either. The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111459	Thank you. But it is incredibly touching with the care that the Left is showing here in relation to the private sector and then in a proposal that is about dental care for young people and well to feel free dental care. The Left also tends to be preoccupied with another slogan, namely best and cheapest, well to feel with the focus that you get best if it is the case that you privatise it all. But what if you get the most for the money, if it is the case that you continue the municipal care of children and young people in order to get free dental care? What if that's the way we get the most health for the money? Does the Left still believe that, with all possible violence and force, we must privatise this effort? Is it so important that we cannot take this into account that here we might actually have more health for the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111556	There were quite incredible many ifs in what Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen said here. You could have taken the trouble to check it out. But what I can read from the consultation note from the Minister for Health's own department is that there can be no proof of this in either direction. What we are doing here is developing and building additional municipal capacity, and I simply do not understand that we are not simply using the capacity that is in the private sector. It's kind of simple, and then there's all that stuff with the private dentists that you don't even have here. I don't understand that at all. I think this is a mess.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111639	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111640	It makes really good sense to use dental hygienists. This is also done in the municipal sector on a very large scale, and it also makes municipal dental care cheaper than what we know from the private sector, where you sometimes get to pay the dentist price for what otherwise the dental care providers can take care of. I am just so incomprehensible that, when one sees an easy, logical solution, which is also known to young people, and which just needs to be continued in the well-known system that we already have, the Left insists that a new system be created.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111712	That's not true, Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. They leave the municipal dental care today when they are 18 years old. So it's a well-known system. You just equip them with a check instead. I think it's all on the moon; yes, I'm sorry I say it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111729	We thank the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111745	Thank you for the floor. Let me start by saying that I simply think it is both unfair and difficult to understand and I think it is wrong that we have user charges for a number of health interventions. That is why I am also pleased with the increased focus on removing user charges on health. But it is also an elephant that must be eaten in bites, because it is many years of structural inequality that must be overcome, and unfortunately we do not do so overnight, but we are constantly on our way. Today we have to deal with another proposal that removes user charges. In fact, we are implementing a financial agreement which guarantees free dental services for young people between 18 and 21 years of age. Unfortunately, the high user fee has as a consequence that young people often drop the dentist while studying. This can have serious consequences later in life, and therefore it makes good sense to prevent in time. We do this by extending the municipal care of children and youth, so that young people can still be associated until the age of 21. We are facing major challenges in the health sector, and it is indeed the huge Gordian knot in the health negotiations that the shortage of staff is repeated in all sectors, including dental health. Therefore, we also need to give more consideration to how more professional groups can help solve the far too many tasks for too few employees. Dentists have long since seen that dental care can help to strengthen efforts, not least in the municipal care of children and young people. That is why, of course, we will also ensure that the self-employed dental practitioners are subject to the provisions on free choice in the new law on equal terms with what is in force in the old law. I hope that the Minister for Health will help us ensure that this will also apply in the future. As I said, we are not in line with the abolition of user charges, but this proposal is yet another step on the road. In the SF we will continue the work of securing free dentist for everyone, and I look forward very much to voting in favour of this particular proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506111956	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506112008	Thank you, President. As part of the Finance Act, funds have been set aside for unpaid dental care for the 18-21-year-olds, and this is the part of the agreement that we must now implement. Exactly tax-paid dental care has been a subject we have discussed several times in this Chamber, and this is a step towards a small step in that direction. After all, there has long been a bias in the fact that a broken leg was fixed without financial consequences for the individual, while the treatment of dental diseases has to be paid out of its own pocket The bill here does not ensure tax-paid dental care for all, but for several. We know that good habits established during the youth years are hanging on and that prevention is better than treatment. If we can ensure better dental hygiene among young people and good habits with dental visits, this can be of great importance in the long term. That is why we in the Radical Left want to ensure that we not only follow the costs but also, in the long term, the health consequences. Can we in a few years' time see changes in the frequency of young people going to the dentist? Will this be reflected in the dental health of these vintages compared to previous ones? After all, we need to learn more about whether what we are doing actually works as expected. Now the rapporteur from the Left came a little ahead of me, but of course we must also keep an eye on the application of the free choice system and the consequences for private dental practitioners. The continuation of tax-paid dental care under the local government regime, thus ensuring continuity of treatment, is immediately sensible, but I hear the concerns, and we must then follow the work of the committee with interest. Finally, we have been informed along the way that the draft law risks distorting competition. In a hearing answer, the Danish Competition and Consumer Protection Agency has written that the bill may place private dental practitioners at a disadvantage in competition with private dental practitioners, because the proposed change of law means that they lose the opportunity to treat the 18-21 year olds. Of course, we need answers on how the Minister will deal with this. This too will be pursued in the work of the committee. But with these small reservations, the Radical Left supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506112218	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten, who comes here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506112226	Thank you for that, President. This is one of the treatments I've been looking forward to so much for us to have down here in the hall. It was Enhedslisten's main requirement for financial law negotiations that we should start to ensure that we could extend the rights of unpaid dental care and dental treatment, precisely to ensure that we can begin to extend welfare rights. For the past many, many years, every time we have talked about welfare, it has been about defending rights and avoiding further erosion. Now, for the first time in several years, we can start to talk about extending welfare rights and ensuring that they can do something concrete to reduce structural inequalities in health and ensure that we get rid of user charges. I would say that on the one hand, Enhedslisten is about this being the first step in ensuring that making dental treatment free of charge is something that is part of the public health insurance so that it is not covered by user charges. That is why this is only the very first step we are taking in relation to this development. There are also other areas that are the whole question of abolishing user charges for prescription medicines, there are a large number of services that continue to be covered by user charges in healthcare, and we should abolish them and ensure that there is real equal and free access to healthcare. But I would also like to say that there is no logical reason why the unpaid dental care should stop at the age of 18. What we are doing today is extending the right so that it also applies until the age of 22. And it has a huge impact on the young people who are today in a situation where they are on their way to leaving home. They have the cost of training, they are seeing the cost of living rising, energy costs rising, and this is quite specific in terms of whether they can afford to allocate funds for dental care. And it is fundamentally unfair to have the credit card rather than to have a basic health care. So this bill we are discussing today is a very concrete political victory, it has a concrete impact on the reality of young people and young people today, and that is why I am very proud that we can get this through today. As I said, there is no doubt that for Enhedslisten this is just the first step. It is a question of extending welfare rights, and it is also a question of ensuring that there are more of the welfare benefits that we can secure under public control, so that we can ensure that there really is equal and free access to dental treatment. I would also like to say that some of what we are going to look at in committee, and I could also hear the Minister's attention, is that we must, of course, ensure that we live up to what is also in the draft law, namely that this is about unpaid dental care, so that we ensure, of course, that there is no difference between dental treatment or dental care. Because it is quite true that when we talk about many of the young people to whom this bill is targeted, it will often be something that is not necessarily covered by the need to go to a dentist but which can be dealt with by a dental practitioner. That is why we must, of course, ensure that there is equality, and we will take this forward in committee. I would say that what will then become central to this is, of course, that we must avoid that it means that we will have the entry into force of the bill postponed. But, of course, we must ensure that equality in relation to it. In addition, I would like to say that there are also some elements that I think may need to be looked at. For example: we can see today that public dental care often closes at 1 p.m. 3 p.m. or 3 p.m. 16.00, and there might well be an opportunity, when there is free chairing capacity later in the day, i.e. in the afternoon and in the evening, to expand capacity so that we could ensure that more people could be treated, and this might even mean better working conditions for public dental practitioners, because by extending opening hours we could ensure that more people could get through and we could make use of the chairing capacity of public dental care. But summing up, it is all a huge day, because we are now extending concrete welfare rights, and we are ensuring that we get to grips with the end-of-life payment and self-payment that is in the healthcare system, and that is why the Enhedslisten is going to support this bill completely and completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506112726	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506112737	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by saying that I am not going to speak with the same enthusiasm for this bill as the previous rapporteur did. Quite frankly, I think that this is a bad proposal. This is for a number of reasons: firstly, we do not know that there is the capacity in municipal dental care that is needed, and this will mean that the children who go to municipal dental care in advance will have more time between dental examinations, and we think this is quite inappropriate. Then, of course, there is also the huge challenge that this costs several hundred million kroner a year, and it is certainly in many ways a bad choice to spend the money on something that young people can actually afford to pay for themselves. That's how a dental check I just looked it up, and I could see that Hvidovre Dental Clinic could do a dental check for 98 kroner. 17 cents, and I think the young people can handle that. All in all, this is a bad proposal, which means that there will be more time between dental examinations in school children and that is inappropriate. We also find it weird not to take dental care into this scheme. The dental practitioners have many of the places where there is poor dental capacity, some opportunities to step in, and therefore it is a little too bad when you finally want to make such a proposal here that the dentists are not there. The way in which I think we should arrange for this, and we have advocated several times to ensure that the young people come for regular dental examinations, is to make sure that when they reach the age of 18 they have to choose a dental clinic to which they want to belong, because then they will be regularly called for dental examinations. I think that is what is missing today, and that is why some of the young people do not come to the dentist simply because they are not called in and because they do not think that they may just need it because they do not have pain in their teeth. It is the case that dental health due to school tooth care is very good in Denmark, and therefore this target group also has very good teeth as a starting point. So we come here for several reasons to vote against this and we do not want to increase the public sector further, nor do we want to prolong the time between dental examinations in municipal dentistry, and that will be the consequence of this proposal, i.e. because there is simply not enough capacity. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506113018	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506113021	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Finally, the rapporteur said that we were not interested in increasing public expenditure. That is why I just want to hear: when we talk about extending the possibility of having free dental treatment, this is simply due to an ideological resistance to ensuring that more people can have access to free dental treatment, that is to say, young people, pensioners and older people, and is it the view of Conservatives that user payments are a good and positive thing, because otherwise it will cost state funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506113054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506113055	But we think the system we have today works quite well and we see no reason to change it. It has worked very well in many ways. And we also think that a dental check for 18-25-year-olds to 98 kr. and 17 øre is affordable for most young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506113119	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506113121	Well, thank you for the clear answer when it comes to supporting the continuation of user charges in health care. But it is just not true that it does not matter in terms of price, because we clearly see that there is a great apostasy when young people move from municipal dental care and have to go to the private. And there is, of course, price quite crucial. In other words, if the rapporteur had contact with young people, he would know that when you go to a dentist, yes, you sometimes get a dental bill that makes it completely incalculable. This means that there are some people, and in particular a large group among those who have the least funds, who will have to opt out of dental treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506113157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506113159	But I would like to question whether this is the case now. In fact, I believe that there are several reasons. First of all, not everyone thinks that going to a dentist is awesome. It may be some of the things that might keep them from going to the dentist. Secondly, there is the factor I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that not being associated with a dental clinic and thus not being called up is also a barrier. For young people, there are certainly many other things that they think are more fun than going to a dentist. And if it is the case that they are not called at all, then it may pass without being aware that some time has passed since they have been with the dentist lately.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506113238	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. There are no more brief comments. That is why we move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506113253	Thank you. Non-wage dental care for 18-21-year-olds is a good and forward-looking preventive measure that can ensure that our young people maintain their teeth in the transition between child and adult and hopefully reach an age where they can take responsibility for their own dental health. Having said that, there are also challenges. We need dentists, and around the country you find it very difficult to hire dentists in municipal dental care, and also the private dentists have difficulty in having enough resources to help the municipalities carry out the task. In the recent agreement on the relocation of education, we have therefore also focused on training more dentists and also on seeing that the training can take place around the country so that there can be a better distribution of dentists, which, of course, should make a difference in the future. But that does not solve the problems in the short term. Therefore, we would like to focus in the committee work on whether private dental practitioners too should have a role and help to solve the problem. But basically it is a good thing to provide better dental care for young people, which is why the Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506113404	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then the New Citizen's rapporteur, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506113410	Thank you. When we have these debates, we sometimes try to find some kind of rationale to explain why things have been the way they have been. In this case, it is often the case when we have the debate that there is no rational explanation why you have to pay for a broken tooth yourself, while the public has to pay for a broken nose. So that part of the debate we have had, and there is no rational there. Then comes the question: If you want to change the state of things, how do you do it? What, then, if we want to change what has hitherto been the own-payment for citizens with the current tax burden to something else where it should be the common fund that is now going to pay it? Well, then there has to be funding for it. In this case, it will now be done free of charge for the 18-21-year-olds to go to the dentist. So the question is: is this not a task which, as it is now, can be solved by the private and by the citizens themselves? We are of the opinion that it can actually do so at this stage. It is thus possible for young people today to join Denmark. It costs about DKr 130-135. a month to do it, and then you can go to the dentist and get support for it. So if you think that this is about young people not having proper economic conditions, then you could, for example, do it. raise the ceiling of how much you must earn in su, or completely remove the ceiling. It could also be that, finally, a tax reduction could be made in relation to the sugar, so that the young person could decide for himself with the extra funds to go to the dentist. But when you always have to make it about the state and the public, there is a clientisation and an under-enhancement of the citizens, which is extremely inappropriate in relation to this. It is much better to give responsibility to the individual and say: You have the opportunity; you have the financial opportunity to go to the dentist if that is the choice you make. In relation to all other aspects of life, we therefore believe that young people are adults when they are 18 years old. So we also have to say that they're in this area. I therefore fully acknowledge that there may be a group of cronys and others, for example. people who have some damage where they need some really, really expensive dental surgery. There we can look to the other Nordic countries, in terms of how they have arranged themselves, where it is that the public is actually going in and helping, if it is so that someone can look forward to getting a very large bill that they cannot pay. That is what the public system must do, that is to say, help those who cannot do it themselves instead of painting with the wide brush all over the place. This proposal even says directly that this is going to mean lost revenue for 184 million. kr. Out at the dentist's. One might then ask, Where does that money go? So, on the part of the proposers, do you just expect that bill to be taken off by the dentists themselves? That's naive. In all the other proposals put forward here, one then writes that one reaches, for example. is about providing additional fees to banks, must expect part of the bill to be passed on to consumers. That's gonna happen here too. In relation to the bill of the 184 million. kr., as this is going to mean in lost income from dentists, some others have to pay it. So who is going to have more expensive dental bills now because of the intention to do this free of charge? So there's a whole series of problems with this particular bill. A completely fair question has been raised about the problem of dental care providers. Why are they not involved in this? And we need to check whether it is even legal to exempt such a whole industry from this. I really would have liked to have checked that during the committee procedure, i.e. whether it is allowed. So there are a large number of problems in relation to the way this bill is made, which means that we cannot in any way support what it is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506113815	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathisen. And then it is the rapporteur from the alternative. Here you go, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506113837	Thank you, President. In the alternative, we are in favour of free dental care for everyone. Well, we can't understand why it's going to cost money to fix a tooth you've broken when you can get free treatment for a broken toe. There are simply too many people who cannot afford dental treatment, and this means that people are suffering for years, and the lack of dental treatment for years also causes chronic inflammations. These are conditions that lead to cancer, heart disease and diabetes later in life, and I actually believe that if you offered free dental offers to everyone, it would lead to many derived savings; you would simply spare so many people from long-term illness. This is, of course, a huge human gain, but it would also lead to huge savings in health care. In fact, I believe that the savings will almost be so great that you can finance free tooth offers through them. I would certainly hope, and I have called on the Minister of Health to do so several times, that we will try to calculate how much savings there would actually be if people were given a dental treatment that was so good that we could save them from lengthy negotiations on serious diseases in the health system. In the alternative, we are incredibly happy that we have offered free dental treatment through the Finance Act to 18-21-year-olds, but we have to move on. It's a small victory that we're happy to be in. The great victory will be when we offer free dental services to everyone in Denmark. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506114031	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you, Mr President. Torsten Gejl. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506114041	Thank you very much. I think it is really, really sad that we are now waiting for a reform in the field of dentistry, which we agreed with the former government's Minister for Health, and where we had actually started to hold meetings on how we could ensure that those who get a huge bill and cannot afford to have their teeth fixed can get better and cheaper dental care. Now we have discussed free dental care a great many times, and I have said several times that if we are going to do something in this area, there must also be incentives for people to keep their teeth. For there are simply too many people who forget to brush their teeth or to go to the dentist and pay what it costs to have an ordinary examination done. There is no incentive here. I mean, there's got to be an incentive. Because you are a young person or a child, there must be something in relation to ensuring that they brush their teeth. Well, I know that with my three-year-old grandson we brush dragons and crocodiles out of our teeth, and it's funny all of a sudden. That's probably not what you have to do with the 18-20-year-olds who are probably boyfriends and something else they're thinking about. But it could be something else, and we've looked at the fact that it could be that you know that you were going to the dentist, so made sure that you got it cheaper at the dentist next time, and I'll still work for that. When we come to the legislative proposal itself, I have, of course, been in favour of us doing something in this area, but I have included a letter that I have received today, and it actually says that this bill is not legal, and that is precisely because it is made directly to the dentists. It is a distortion of competition and, at the same time, it is not within the EU rules that have actually been made. That is why I would like to say from this point of view that I call the Minister in consultation on the legality of the legislation being sought here. I can read out a little from what the lawyer writes, and that is that the draft law L 192 and related proposals for amending the dental care order propose a scheme to introduce this unpaid dental care. The opt-out system is limited to private dentists and thus does not apply to private dental practitioners. That means that the young people here at 100 percent. Public subsidies can be provided for dental care by private dentists, but they will have to pay for themselves if they go to a dental care provider and that is distorting competition, especially when it is State aid. The scheme in the bill involves State aid to private dentists, etc. etc. But I am passing this on, because that makes me absolutely impossible to pass on to the legislation that is in place. I had already said, as I have also spoken with the rapporteur of the Left, that I would make an amendment to ensure that dental care is included. It may be that we solve the problem by doing so. But let us have a consultation on this and talk about whether this is legal or whether the Minister has actually not examined a legal basis. That is a word that we have used a lot over the last few years, and it is certainly important that we follow the legislation, including those who are so happy with the European Union, that we follow the European Union's legislation in this area. So these were supposed to be my words from here. So let's keep working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506114421	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Then we are through the rapporteur's line and have reached the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506114439	Thank you for that and thank you for the comments on the bill. With what we are discussing today, when we actually have some of a milestone, and I think everyone who has been in politics for some time, at least people who have worked on health policy, and we who are in this Chamber have been at meetings around Denmark, where the question of why it is so expensive to go to the dentist for everyone, why there is so much inequality in dental health, why we accept the unfairness of our society, has been raised. And we have tried to answer that by saying that there is a lot of goodwill, but it also costs a lot of money. So what can we do and is it even possible to do something about it? I think that the majority that is now drawing up this proposal shows that it is possible, because it is the same majority that has introduced a strengthening of social care for the most socially vulnerable, with considerable and very important efforts for the most socially vulnerable, in order to improve their dental health. It is extremely important and it is already making a big difference out there. The same majority then starts to do something about the fact that too many people drop the dentist at the age of 18. There are two things that happen: one is that it is typically just around the time when you leave home, and at the same time you may be on su, and you do not have the largest income, and then you do not come to the dentist because the dentist bill is high. And then we know that once you drop out of it, it can take years to get in. Here, too, there is a major social distortion. I just saw some figures for young people when assessing whether they have good dental health. I think it is thought-provoking that we obviously accept those conditions in our society, because when you look at young women, they are completely dependent on • when you look at statistically what parents have of educational length, and if you are child and young by parents with higher education, have 71 per cent. of young women who have good dental health, while that only applies to 43 per cent, if parents have a shorter education. The inequality we know from health in general is reflected even more clearly in dental health, because there is such a large self-payment, such a large user fee. The payment of the user is just where you do not have very much income and where you are going to move, and so it is very big trip wires or perhaps closer walls that you build against public health for our young people, and that is why I think it is an excellent proposal, and thanks to the parties who helped to take responsibility in the Finance Act to give priority to this: the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Radical Left, the Alternative and the Christian Democrats. It is a great investment on the part of society, an investment in more health, more dental health, that we are now extending the period when there is a free dentist. Until now it is from 18 years, but from this year onwards, if the proposal is adopted, we will extend the period and extend it continuously until we reach the 21st year, that is until the 22th year is the exact year in which we can see many drop out. Then I have heard the speeches of the rapporteurs, and there are some who think that you have no incentive to brush your teeth if there is not the hard user charge. That is an ideological point of view, and one may well have, but I disagree fundamentally, because I believe that it is a social problem which concerns the structures we have in our society, with free and equal access to health in general. But then we have had a huge dark spot, a huge absurdity when it comes to dental health. It is a structure that is politically determined, but now we take political responsibility for changing it and investing in giving everyone better dental health. Then there are several rapporteurs from the opposition parties who have spoken about the private dental practitioners. It almost sounds as if you are more concerned with private dental practitioners than with the dental health of young people. It is very, very important to make it clear that there is already the possibility today that, from 16 years of age and until 18 years of age, you can choose what is called a free choice system where you can opt out of municipal dental care and get a private dental practitioner. It sounds almost like the debate here, as if that arrangement had been removed, but on the contrary it has been extended. We extend that scheme and say that it is not only when you are 16 and 17 years old, but also when you are 18, 19, 20 and 21 years old. So if you prefer a private dentist, you have exactly the same option as you had under the previous government, that is, the free choice system. What we're just doing is we're improving it and extending the period when you get this free offer. It will also be the case that the municipalities have the opportunity to choose either to organise it themselves or to cooperate with a private dental practitioner. Now it is such a Friday morning that we are discussing it here and there are many proposals on the agenda. When the scheme is fully phased in and it will be by the end of 2025, there will be 280,000 more young people than today who are entitled to free dental care. This is a significant step for public health and a significant step away from an unfair inequality in health. I am extremely pleased that we can also be delivered on the agenda, which is a difficult agenda, which has been under discussion for decades. Now we're gonna do something about it. Finally, there are several rapporteurs from both sides of the House who have raised the challenge of private dental practitioners who, according to the proposal, are not covered by the free choice system. I would like to say that I am aware of the proposal that it should be possible for municipalities also to enter into agreements with private dental practitioners to carry out the task and that it should also be possible to opt for private dental practitioners through the free choice system. The draft law provides for the existing rules in child and youth care to be continued with the new age groups. It is therefore the existing rules that we are proposing to continue, but this issue has been raised in connection with the legislative proposal, and I am aware of that, and I think it may certainly be appropriate for us to discuss it further in committee. And I can say that, in preparation for this, I have asked the Danish Health Service to clarify what might be of the advantages and possible disadvantages of implementing that proposal. So I suggest that we try to deal with this in committee. And so thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115241	Thank you. There are some brief comments. It's first, sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115244	I don't usually take the left in defense, but I'll make an exception here. After all, the minister makes it sound as if it is the government that has made a demand on the left to introduce unpaid dental care. It's the converted world, I guess it's fair to say. This isn't a flower that grew in the government's garden just before the minister gets started too well. Then I just don't understand why you haven't examined it with the private dentists before you put the bill forward. Well, it would have been quite natural for us to have done so in our legislative work. Well, what I really wanted to ask the Minister is why the government has begun to localise adult tooth care in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115328	First of all, I explicitly mentioned a great deal of thanks to the parties behind the Finance Act. That I myself am also very, very satisfied that it is part of a financial law that this government has concluded with the present majority, I do not think there is any reason to hide, because I am. But again I can mention something explicit: the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Radical Left, the Christian Democrats and the great work of the Alternative to make this happen. I think that is quite excellent and it is a majority of whom I am pleased to be a part, especially one day like today. The second element is the question of dental care. Now, in our legislative proposal, we have tried to continue the existing system, but we are aware of it here, and let us have it examined in committee work. To the last point, as a citizen, as a young person, you still have this guarantee of free choice that you have before you are 18 years old. So that means that you have the opportunity to choose the private.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115437	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115439	Why have the young people not just been provided with a check so that they can choose freely between the various private dentists and private dentists in Denmark? Why is it necessary for municipalities to be encouraged to start building municipal capacity?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115455	Then I would like to ask: how much should the amount of a check be? What if you need a treatment that is more expensive? That is where we have proposed that it be searched for. If you have that need, it will be paid, and then you can choose for yourself as a young person. You could say that I'd like that treatment, no matter what the price is. Not with a fixed check, but no matter what the price is, you can choose whether you want it in the municipal offer or whether you want to go to the private offer. In the past, it has been possible to do so if you were under 18 years of age. Now we want to expand it for the 18-21-year-olds.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115529	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115531	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. As the Minister knows, I fully share the enthusiasm for this bill, and I also think that the Minister is aware that the whole issue of inequality in health and prevention is important elements for the Enhedslisten, and that is why we fought in the first Finance Act for a boost to psychiatry, where we were allocated the 600 million. kr., and now we get this in relation to ensuring free dental treatment up to the age of 22. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. But I would just like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister does not agree that this is only the first step, because this is precisely about getting rid of the inequality that exists in whether one has broken a leg or whether one has broken a tooth and that there should be the same access. After all, we raised the demand that it should be up to 25 years in the first place, and now we could succeed in getting the parties to accept that it is up to 22 years. However, does the Minister not agree that this is the first step and that a final goal should be for us to have the user charge abolished in relation to dental treatment?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115636	Yes, but there is a totally unreasonable and I also think unbearable inequality in health, and that is on many parameters. But this is particularly true in the dental sector, and this is explicitly linked to the fact that we have a very, very high user fee with dentists, and we can just see how it keeps large groups in our society from going to the dentist regularly and how it means serious illness, pain and deterioration of quality of life and health in general. So I am very, very pleased that this scheme is now being extended, as well as I am pleased that we, together with the financial law parties, are lifting it in relation to the inequalities in health in relation to social care and the enlargement that has taken place there. So I'm very, very happy about it. When we have not yet reached that point, it is because it also costs some money. It is clear that it costs some money and the money is scarce, so I cannot promise that we will move forward until we have the money on the table to move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115743	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115744	Thank you. In fact, I think that is exactly how I remember the figures if we go about. 20 years ago, the proportion of self-payment of dental treatment for citizens was about 50 per cent. It has then risen to today, where it is about 83 per cent. So we have seen a development in which user charges have increased over the past many years. However, I would like to hear something from the Minister, and in the Enhedslisten we are happy to raise again and again the demand to extend welfare, and we would also like to make it the next budget debate, but it would be more appropriate for the government itself, in its own financial law initiative, to take on board some initiatives that we could build on. So can we look forward to the government, in its own draft budget, proposing that we have to lift the welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115826	It happens sometimes that good rapporteurs ask what the government is going to include in its draft budget, and I have the rule that I will never say that before. In fact, we usually hold a press conference over in the Ministry of Finance, where the government's draft Finance Act is presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115843	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115845	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. In fact, I would just like to correct the Minister a little bit, because in relation to the economy the Minister said it was going to be free. Well, there's nothing free. After all, it is a question of someone else paying. That's the way it is. I would like to hear from the Minister whether it has been examined whether it would have any effect if it were the case that the young people were asked to choose a dentist in the same way as they would have to choose a medical practitioner from a list and that, if they chose a dentist, they would have a connection with a dental clinic, which would then be able to call them for a dental check-up. Has it been checked to see if it will have an effect? Or have you missed that chance before you put this in the lake?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506115929	In fact, in the 2022 Finance Act, we have provided funds to make what is called a digital dentist's picker to make it as easy as possible for young people to choose a dentist when moving or at the time of the transition from child and youth care to adult dental care, and I think that is very good. It is a very, very small element which is fine and good. But what we have here is a far, far bigger and far more far-reaching proposal: where today it is the case that, at the age of 18, you have to pay your own pockets and a user fee to go to the dentist, now as part of a majority you have collected money together, and it is true that it is the taxpayers who pay that it is the community that pays to strengthen dental health, to minimize the user fee and to ensure that it is not only from the 18th year, but that it is extended until 21 years. And it benefits hundreds of thousands of people, who then get an offer of free and equal access also to treatment at the dentist, and frankly I think that is a huge step.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120039	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120041	Thank you. I have not just been aware of the passage mentioned by the Minister in relation to the fact that young people choose a dentist. But will it be a requirement in the same way as when choosing a medical practitioner? Because I am quite sure that if it is the case that the young people are called for dental examinations, then already there will have an effect, rather than they just drop out of school tooth care and then maybe not seek out a dental care until they get hurt in a tooth at some given time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120112	I would very much like to send to the committee the work on this digital dentist. I am sure that this is an excellent arrangement, and it will then also be possible for the young person to be able to compare prices and so on. But it's not part of this bill. But I'd love to send it over. It is not easy for it to be a requirement like a health card and a general practitioner, but I would be happy to send over the thoughts we have and the work that is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120138	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Health. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120201	The debate is open. The first to speak is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Bjørn Brandenborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120216	Thank you. I have looked forward to taking the floor and talking about this proposal, which we are now going to deal with first. It is a comprehensive proposal and a very, very important proposal which deals with a central judicial authority, namely criminal justice. Our criminal services are under pressure. It's been a long time. There is a lack of space, there is a lack of hands, and there is a lack of security for the employees who make a great effort every day. I was therefore very pleased when we concluded a multi-annual agreement on criminal justice in December. The agreement tackles the acute problems facing criminal services, but it is also a strong starting point for the long-term recovery of criminal services, which is so crucial. The legislative proposal we are discussing today aims to implement those parts of the agreement that require legislative changes. After all, the bill contains many initiatives and the multi-year agreement even more, but the initiative, which may not have been so surprisingly given the most attention, is to rent prison places abroad. In April, the Minister signed a formal agreement with Kosovo on the rental of seats. The agreement allows Denmark to send up to 300 aliens sentenced to expulsion to serve in Kosovo, and we can therefore, with the legislative proposal today, lay down the legal framework for the system, because there must of course be a framework for it. Atoning in Kosovo must take place under conditions which are basically equivalent to Danish prisons and in accordance with Denmark's international obligations. In short, there must be proper relations, proper management and proper supervision. In return, we will have a place in our Danish prisons, where the exiled foreigners would otherwise have sat. It will be a great task to get the practical arrangements in place, but the agreement with Kosovo and this bill are the first important steps. With all the talk that has been about Kosovo, it may have come to nought from others that the multi-year agreement also contains many other good initiatives, some of which are being implemented with this bill. One of the most important steps is to ensure that our prison staff have better working conditions. They have for a long time undertaken a major and important task under very, very difficult conditions, and it is totally unacceptable that our prison staff should be subjected to violence and threats from special groups of inmates. That is why I am pleased that with this bill we are taking action against this behaviour by doubling the penalties for violence and threats to staff in the institutions of criminal justice and reviewing the disciplinary system. The proposal also contains other things, such as initiatives to deal with the absence of service, as well as new rules on service and release. Then the bill also contains rules to strengthen the prevention of crime and to support a better transition to society after the end of service. Trades include: on a new integration model and amended rules on debt relief and debt cancellation. We in the Social Democratic Party think it is absolutely essential that we take responsibility for ourselves and adopt amendments that can help bring our criminal services back on track. As I said, there are a lot of good proposals in this draft law, and we support it, of course. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120549	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120557	Thank you. All I have to do is ask the Socialists whether they believe that this bill solves all the problems that we have in our criminal services.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120608	No, I don't think it does. And I don't think we've said it does either. However, we have an acute problem here and now, which is to get more seats in our prisons, and that is where we point out some of them. by renting some places abroad. And then we have an acute problem with our prison staff working today under very, very harsh conditions, and we are also improving them with this agreement. But no, it would be wrong to try to convince someone that we're gonna solve all the problems with this deal. But we are taking an important step towards better criminal justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120639	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120643	Now there are many ways of solving the problem of space. For example: You could extend the ankle bracelet system far more than this bill suggests. What has then been chosen is to rent prison places abroad. And I should just like to ask the Socialists: can this bill guarantee that the rights of all prisoners and, as such, of employees will be respected? Can this bill guarantee that, for example, there will be: is going to be enough interpreters so that the language that is being spoken is something everyone can understand?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120720	Yes, that is, the prerequisite for the treaty that has been signed and the agreement that has been concluded with Kosovo is, of course, that it is done according to Danish standards and within the obligations that Denmark has. That is why this is going to be done in accordance with the international commitments that we have signed up to. The proposal says that the working language is English in prison, and there will also be some staff down there who speak Danish. And so it will be, and the questioner knows very well that it will be the Ombudsman who supervises the prison, just as they do in Danish institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120757	Thank you. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120806	I would like to ask the rapporteur what the rapporteur would think we should do in the future if there is still a shortage of prison places if this is not enough to provide more prison places. Should we further reduce the penalties? That is what we are doing here, as the rapporteur rightly said, with the integration, leghold traps, the covid-19 penalties, etc., fraud with aid packages. That's where we're gonna make a reduction in punishment to make room in the prisons. I ask whether this is the path that the Social Democratic Party will take if this is not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120833	What we are doing with this agreement is also creating more places in prisons, because there is a need for that. And then Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, that in this agreement we reduce the penalty for corona crime from a quadruple to a doubling. In other words, the penalty is still being doubled and the penalty is still being quadrupled. But it is not true that in this agreement we are only making concessions. So, in this agreement, if you could commit a completely insane act of assaulting some of our prison staff, you will in future be given a double penalty for it because we need to ensure that our prison staff are better protected than they are today. After all, the Left is not part of the agreement, and that is a pity, because in this agreement we are actually taking responsibility for the safety of both our prison staff and for getting more seats.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120928	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506120932	I asked what the rapporteur would do if there were not enough room, and then the rapporteur replied by saying that we have also made a good law which provides double punishment for violence against prison staff. And that is quite right, but this just illustrates how central my question is. More and more serious crime is taking place. Thank God we're getting more and more gang and biker members put in jail, etc. So what I am asking is: if there is not enough room then, is the way in which the Social Democrats solve the problem of space so as to relax the penalties further than has been done here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506121000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506121004	In other words, unlike the Left and the questioner, we take responsibility for getting some more seats in our prison system with this agreement. And now we have assigned 1,000 places in this agreement; we rent places abroad, we build new ones, we expand, we use other old places again. And if it should be so that we are still in a situation where there are no seats, it is, of course, a task that we are taking on. Well, we haven't told anyone that we're gonna solve all the problems with this deal, but what we're doing, like the Left, unfortunately, isn't gonna take part in yes, it's taking responsibility for our employees and for there to be more seats in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506121038	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506121042	Thank you. I think it is quite fair not to solve all problems with an agreement or a legislative proposal, but I do not think it is fair to create new problems when you make an agreement or make a legislative proposal like this. When we in New Citizens are not in the agreement, it is because it has become too lax to say it as it is. After all, these people who are sent to serve in Kosovo have the opportunity to return to Denmark as soon as they have finished their service. That is a condition, and I hope the rapporteur will confirm that. In addition, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen said, pardon people who have cheated with corona drugs. In other words, they have defrauded Danish taxpayers' money during a period when the whole country was laid down; where we all had to live quite limited in terms of how we had otherwise lived. They'll be pardoned. And if they finally said that we have an emergency problem with space in our prisons what do we do? Can the rapporteur not agree that there is too much slack in this agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506121148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506121151	Let me start with the last one first: No, I can't. And I would say that it is also not with our good will that we need to make adjustments. It's about capacity problems. And it's not the case that some people are being pardoned. Well, it's not like in some American movie, or like when you hear stories from the United States, where you suddenly step into a room and say, "You're free." It is the case that there are a whole series of cases where there has not yet been a conviction, and when there is a judgment in those cases, it will be according to the rule that you get a double penalty and not a quadrupled penalty because you still get a quadruple of the fine. In relation to the Kosovo part, it will be the case in this agreement that it should be within Denmark's international obligations, but when you are sentenced to expulsion, you have to be expelled from Denmark, and that is also what we are proposing with this agreement. But then Mrs Pernille Vermund is right that it is also the case today that there are some that we cannot expel, because we must not do so if it is the case that we may be subjected to torture or that we may otherwise be at risk. And so it will be so that if one cannot be sent out, then, as it is today, he must come to Kærshovedgård and be there until he can be sent out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506121254	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506121257	So the rapporteur acknowledges that the penalties for those who have committed corona fraud are being relaxed, and the rapporteur acknowledges that the foreigners sent to serve in Kosovo have the opportunity to return to Denmark afterwards. So I would like to ask a third point: will the rapporteur also recognise that this allows people who have been given a fairly long prison sentence, in other words over six months, to have an opportunity in future to serve in an ankle chains? So here we are talking about people who haven't just stolen a Marsbar or something else. They're people who have been given a prison sentence of over six months. With this bill you can have the opportunity to serve in an ankle chains because the Social Democratic Party would like to have a place in prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506121336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506121339	With this agreement, we take responsibility for solving some of the challenges that are. Mrs Pernille Vermund is good at pointing out that we should set the penalty here and there and that we should double it here and there, but what is the urgent challenge is that we have a criminal justice system that is kneeling and where there is a lack of seats. We solve large parts of this by renting places abroad. We'll solve it by building new ones. And then we'll make some adjustments, such as... It is about the fact that the punishment you receive in the future is doubled instead of quadrupled. But we also make punishments if you commit an attack on a prison officer in the future, you will have a doubling of the punishment you receive today. It is to send out a very, very clear signal that we must look after our employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506121427	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506121445	The proposal before us today is quite comprehensive. The only consolation that comes from assessing it and assessing the six working days we have had to study it is that it is a product of a comprehensive debate that has been in the form of negotiations on the prison system and the settlement on it. That is why there is not so much that surprises us in this particular proposal. It gets much, much worse later in the day. First of all, one might ask why we are really punishing and how we are punishing Denmark. Why is it that a murder is punished somewhat harder than a shoplifting? It is because we are looking at the seriousness of the crime when we assess how long the penalty should be. It is already closely described in the Code of Civil Procedure today. It was also against this background that we considered the proposal for covid-19 aid when we had that treatment here in the Danish Parliament. There we said that we are in such an emergency situation and in an emergency situation where we are going to provide great funds to the Danes and to the business community, and, on the other hand, we have to recognise that, in this emergency situation, we will not be able to set up control functions in connection with cheating with aid packages. On the other hand, we did something else, according to an American pattern: instead of setting up penalties, it has a preventive effect on people. So the lack of control was matched by a very high penalty. So far, so good. However, the principle of the seriousness of the crime and the high penalty for it seem to have gone the whistle. Why is it? That's because we need prison places. In other words, we have come into a situation in which the legal policy is at least the part which concerns the length of time spent in prison, not depending on the seriousness of the crime, as it should be, but depends on whether there is room in prison. In a figurative sense, murder ends up being fined because we have no place at home in prisons. We have to be careful not to go down that slippery slope. And I stress that this has been said in a figurative sense. So this principle is applied here. This agreement is hurrying away from the principle that a serious crime must be severely punished. Now it only needs to be punished half as hard because we do not have enough prison places. I am thinking, of course, of the penalties for fraud involving aid packages in connection with the covid-19, from when society was so much in crisis. I am deeply concerned about that. I think that is a worrying way to go. Having said that, I must hurry to say that there are plenty of good proposals in the draft law. Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg added a single proposal at the end when he said that we take responsibility for the employees and that there will be double penalties for violence against prison officers. He's right about that forever. I can thank you, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, and if he were to replicate, he can say thank you for that, because it is a proposal that the Left made. But it is a good proposal and there are plenty of other proposals here which are quite excellent. However, it is a patchwork of proposals which can be very difficult to deal with individually. The Social Democrat rapporteur did not do that either. I can say that the Left welcomes the prison solution in Kosovo. There is a mess of detail about the prison that I certainly cannot understand. It is with regard to visits, transport, etc. etc. We'll have to look at that as we go. But the principle of using foreign prisons and the way it is done here is quite, quite excellent. There is also provision in the proposal for other slightly tighter disciplinary penalties, for community services to be served in private companies and for extra penalties to be imposed in the absence of service. I don't think I need to go into details. Another proposal that has been reversed is on the costs of the defendants. Here, too, we are now committed to debt relief of the relevant costs. I just have to say that a minimum must at least be that one hundred per cent ensure that it will not be on more relaxed terms than for the craftsman who has gone down with a company and what he can have repaid. The integration and ankleting arrangements, which have already been dealt with in a question, are being relaxed. In general, I would say that I think it is a worrying way of implementing our criminal law in Denmark, that we are looking at whether we can afford this and whether we have seats for this, and then we are setting the penalty for the money. No, the penalty must follow the crime, and this is not an example of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506121946	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. And then we have reached the SF rapporteur. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506122004	Thank you. Criminal services in Denmark face a huge challenge. There is a historically high level of evidence in the criminal services institutions. There is also a huge shortage of prison officers, and there are far too few prison places if we are to be able to keep up with developments in this area. The number of inmates has increased significantly over recent years, and the number of inmates has not actually been higher since the years immediately after World War II. The employees are fleeing, their work has over the years been emptied of meaningful content, and the truth is that the Danish prison system has undergone a deroute from having had an internationally recognised leading position to today not being able to hold on to the employees. The inmates are tucked together in visitor rooms, even phone boxes, and one-man cells are used to store multiple people. It is not only unworthy, but also detrimental to rehabilitation. It is my view that criminal justice has been subject to political neglect for years and that the problems have been allowed to grow far too big. With the agreement on the criminal justice economy up to 2025, we will have a recovery started. The new agreement on criminal justice is not only strictly necessary; it is also very good in many ways, because in the SF we have got a lot of good prints in the agreement. We have received a student's salary throughout the training period for prison and transport officers, and this means that hopefully we can recruit more and more policemen. By reintroducing the student's salary over the su, we have at least laid the stepping stones for more people to want to apply, and we have at least seen that an applicant number has set a record. What's exciting is how many people really go on and become prison officers afterwards. We have also got two new schools in the hope of making it more attractive if you move the education closer to where you live. In the SF we have also wanted more retirement pensions, and we get three of them. Now they are called "Entrepreneurship Prisons," and in this way we are raising some of the challenge of the lack of seats. Since they use staff other than prison officers, it provides relief in prisons and in prisons, and at the same time they are very good at solving the rehabilitation tasks. We'll sort out the inmates' health with electronic health records in the D.C. We will have better training opportunities for the inmates, and we will have a new strategy for strengthening cooperation with civil society. We're getting an effort in relation to the inmates' children. We have better opportunities for community service. We think that is a good legal policy. This is a wise legal policy, and it is a re-socialising legal policy. We will also have a look at the hopeless rules on disciplinary punishment. There is no doubt that in the SF we might, if we could have decided ourselves had gone a little further with them, but I think it is quite positive that there is a ceiling on how long one can sit in the penalty cell. The use of criminal cells, which we know to have a damaging effect, because isolation imprisonment is so problematic, we are being reduced and we are having some alternatives introduced. We think this is a good foundation. Instead of releasing a lifelong debt due to many heavy criminal charges, we have also ensured that a solution is found for it. For some of the things that inmates always mention to me is that the barrier to creating a new life without crime is huge when you drag around a debt that you never have the prospect of getting out of. It is wise legal policy and hopefully it will motivate more people to stop their crime, and that is one of the things that has been really important to the SF. Part of the agreement also means that we will set up 300 prison places for expulsion from third countries in a rented prison in Kosovo. The prison must first be prepared, and after a thorough assessment we must then see if it meets the Danish standards. This is what we expect, and it is the plan that the first deportees should begin their service in 2023. After all, prison places abroad are a solution that we have put into use because we are extremely pressured and we cannot get places in the short term. It takes 10 years to build a new prison, but if we had the seats already now, we didn't actually have our hands. That's why this is a solution that can relieve some of the pressure on criminal justice. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506122524	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506122528	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. In fact, I agree far along the way with what is wise legal policy, but what really worries me is that the SF is now part of an agreement that creates these prison places abroad. Amnesty writes in their hearing answer that they are also worried about it, and they write among other things. calls for the agreement between Denmark and Kosovo to be submitted for consultation. I just need to know if SF is gonna push for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506122600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506122604	We would very much like to push for that. Mrs Rosa Lund will have to decide for herself what she is worried about, but if I were Mrs Rosa Lund, I would look with positiveness at the fact that SF is in the agreement, because that means that there are some who guarantee that this will be a proper agreement. For us, this isn't about a discount solution where we have to send someone down to a ground hole in another country. It is about taking responsibility for solving the challenge we have with our hands and seats at this time, and the offer we make in Kosovo must be according to Danish standards, and it must comply with international conventions, and indeed the ban on discrimination also means making a worse offer. So I would perhaps look at the SF in the agreement as those who can guarantee that this can be done properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506122655	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506122658	I have serious doubts as to whether this is going to be possible properly, and I can see in the press and in the hearings that I and Enhedslisten are not the only ones in doubt about it. So I would like to rephrase the question: can the SF guarantee that human rights will be respected, that there will be proper interpretation, that conditions will be in order, despite the fact that Kosovo does not have the same human rights obligations as we have in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506122726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506122729	Well, it is the case that the conventions must be observed, and I think we have added the stepping stones to make it a good solution. We have made sure that there is a Danish leadership of the prison. We will see to it that there is proper health care in prison. We will ensure that the international conventions are respected and we will also ensure that there is supervision of DIGNITY and the Ombudsman, just as there is in Denmark. So I really think that we have laid the foundations for an agreement that can be managed sensibly, but in the best of all worlds I would then wish that we could keep those seats in Denmark. We just don't have the chance at this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506122806	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506122817	Thank you. This bill is the product of a long negotiation process in the autumn. In the Radical Left, we ended up standing outside the final agreement. I am really rather sorry about this, because in the negotiations we managed to get more very good initiatives in place, and I am also looking forward to seeing those initiatives come into being. I would particularly like to highlight the changed rules in order to be able to serve with ankle chains, the establishment of the new integration prisons, the possibility of debt relief and debt cancellation. It is so crucial that a good and solid transition from serving to a crime-free life is made. Because the fact is that many today live a pendulum existence between freedom and prison, where they never really find a foothold in life outside the walls. These initiatives, which I have just highlighted, can hopefully help many more people on their way to a meaningful life without crime. But there is a reason why we in the Radical Left are outside the agreement and that we will also be voting against this bill. Because it is, in our opinion, highly questionable that the lack of capacity in Danish prisons will be solved by exporting the problem abroad, and that is what this is about. One should not read long in the consultation answers until one has put together a whole bouquet for reasons why it is a bad solution. Firstly, the elections in Kosovo have fallen compared to the rental of prison places. Kosovo is not a member of either the UN or the Council of Europe and therefore does not have the same human rights obligations as Denmark. Much is being done about the fact that the inmates are under Danish jurisdiction and that conditions will be the same as in the Danish prisons. But as among others... After all, the Institute for Human Rights writes in their hearing answer that there may still be a legal vacuum in which the inmates hover between the legal position of Denmark and Kosovo. This is, for example, the transport to and from prisons, or if one of the inmates commits renewed crime during serving. In addition, it must also be said that it is a problem in terms of being able to supervise the situation, that is, whether they are now as they should be. This very problem of supervision caused Norway to drop the agreement they had with the Netherlands on prison places in the Netherlands a few years ago. It was after criticism from the Norwegian Ombudsman that the scheme was contrary to the country's obligations in the field of human rights. And then you can consider in your own quiet mind whether the conditions for success are better when you have rented prison places in Kosovo and not in the Netherlands. Then there are other elements of the agreement, such as funding, which would like to cut integration efforts and Danish bonuses, which we certainly do not welcome in the Radical Left either. So, although I can welcome several elements of the overall agreement, there are some things here that I have highlighted that are crucial for us not to be able to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506123127	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506123139	Thank you. Now there is a new captain at the helm of the Ministry of Justice, but I wonder if the new Minister of Justice is aware that Enhedslisten is not part of this agreement that is behind this bill. I just want to say hello to the new Minister of Justice and say that it wasn't with our good will. There are a lot of good initiatives in this bill and, as a matter of fact, in the criminal justice settlement, just as there is still a lot of work to be done to ensure better working conditions for criminal services staff and better crime prevention efforts so that we can reduce future crime. However, improving the possibility of community service, reducing the use of prison cell, fixed release days and more use of ankle chains are all very good initiatives, for which we also fought hard in the Enhedslisten before we were thrown out of the negotiations. That is why we also find it a little annoying in the Enhedslisten that we are now dealing with a proposal which contains very good initiatives, while at the same time the legislative proposal also contains some initiatives that we cannot in any way support. Changing the name of pensions to retirement prisons also seems to be a little indifferent symbolic policy, but I can really understand why it has been done. It has probably been to convince some other parties that are in the agreement. The biggest problem with this bill is that 300 prison places are now being created abroad. After all, we have been able to see that the government's policy in many areas is to export our problems to other countries, thereby depriving ourselves of all responsibility, both in the area of foreigners, which the new Minister of Justice is extremely well aware of, where asylum treatment is sought for Rwanda, and in the area of justice, where people are trying to export expulsions to Kosovo. The amount of arguments against applying this solution with prison places abroad is huge. We know from Norway, which rented a prison in the Netherlands, that it simply does not work to outsource the atonement, because there are a great many legal problems associated with it. After all, sending people to serve in another country means, in practice, that they are serving under foreign conditions and not under Danish conditions, as had otherwise been promised. If, for example, an inmate commits crime while he or she is in prison, I understand that they must then be prosecuted in Kosova, taken out of the Danish prison and served in another prison in Kosovo and then moved back to the Danish prison, and that is a violation of the law in Kosovo, not Danish law. One can then potentially risk that there are conditions that are legal in Denmark, but not in Kosova, and then it is not to serve under Danish conditions if one is punished for things that are legal in Denmark. We can also add that, when it comes to expulsions, we know that some countries do not want to receive their criminal citizens, in fact, just like Denmark, which will not receive our own criminal citizens, at least not those who are in a prison camp in Syria right now. What's gonna happen to these people? They are sent to Kosovo to serve their sentence, but what about when the sentence is served? Are they then going back to Denmark because Iran will not accept them? Or what were we supposed to do? I don't see how this is a solution to anything. I understand that we lack space in criminal justice, that there are capacity problems, but they could be solved by extending the use of ankle chains more than is done in the legislative proposal, by extending the use of community services more than is done today. In fact, I think that will also be wise legal policy, because it is much better for rehabilitation. We can then add to this that we can read in the consultation answers that there are a great many other major problems associated with the proposed model. I believe, in fact, that I would call the Kosovo prison a box of unresolved problems. I therefore call on the Minister to divide up the draft law in committee so that the Enhedslisten can support the proposals that we consider to be wise legal policy and so that we can vote against the things that we disagree with. I would think that was most fair to do, both in relation to criminal justice, but also in relation to legal proceedings. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506123643	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to Mrs Lund. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506123659	Thank you. The proposal we are discussing here today stems from the agreement on criminal justice that we reached in December. For years, the police department has been challenged, prison officers have gone and it has not been possible to recruit enough new officers, and that spiral has, to put it mildly, made working conditions in prison difficult. At the same time, we are now missing 400 prison places. We can therefore look into longer waiting times to serve, we can see that criminals can walk freely on the street even longer after they have committed a criminal act and received a verdict. It is dangerous, and it is offensive to legal certainty, and we obviously cannot accept that. That is why it was a bottom-up task to draw up a criminal justice agreement and, as a responsible party working with the mandates we have, we in the Conservative People's Party are pleased that we managed to reach a broad agreement which both provides a solution to how to train more officers and how to obtain the 400 prison places that are missing. With the agreement here, the D.A. is giving a very, very much needed boost. There are so many good things in this agreement, and the previous speakers have already mentioned some of them, so I would just like to make some of the most important points. With this proposal, we are creating the legal framework for expulsions, primarily those without a family, to serve their sentences in Kosovo. In addition to the fact that it is a strong signal that they do not belong in Denmark, we also provide about 300 of the 400 seats that we are missing in the Danish prisons. Furthermore, we are doubling the penalties for violence against the policemen at work, because it simply cannot be reasonable for violent behaviour to be experienced more and more as a policeman at work. It must be punished, and it must be severely punished. And then we'll secure a student's salary for the prison officers. We believe that a better salary in education, the fact that you can now train yourself in many more places in Denmark, and the fact that you almost have a job guarantee when you have finished, will make more people apply for prison service training. We have made a great deal of progress with this agreement, we are certainly not in the end yet, but there are a great many good initiatives that are moving in the right direction and, hopefully, set a new direction for criminal justice and improve the working conditions of prison officers. For the Conservative People's Party, the area of justice is a cornerstone of Danish society. We are part of the police settlement, we are part of the criminal justice agreement, and of course we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506123957	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to Mrs Baker. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124017	Thank you. With this bill, we would like to congratulate the Danish prison officers, who will be released with this agreement some important and sought-after resources, and not least congratulations to the exiled foreigners who will no longer be serving in a Danish prison, because of course they should not. It is foreigners who have come to this country who have abused our hospitality by committing crime, and then, of course, they should not have the privilege, after all, of staying in a Danish prison. They're gonna do their time, and then they're gonna go back to where they're coming from. While serving, they don't have to be here to take up a seat in a Danish prison. They have received a verdict that they are no longer wanted in this country, so with this agreement the process goes faster: Quickly out of Denmark, goodbye and thanks for nothing. At many levels, this is a very good proposal, and of course we wholeheartedly support it. There is certainly not so much more to say than that this proposal is a step in the very right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124126	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the New Citizens' rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124147	Thank you. The proposal we are discussing here is the execution of parts of the government's agreement with SF, DF and Conservatives on the criminal justice economy. In New Citizens, we agree that we need to strengthen criminal justice, so there is room and resources to send criminal Danes to prison. And we believe that criminal foreigners should be expelled and served in prisons abroad. However, when we are not in the agreement and therefore today say no to this legislative proposal, this is because the agreement, and hence the legislative proposal, is too weak. The agreement only creates the necessary space here and now. It does not guarantee the expulsion of criminal foreigners; it rewards criminal Danes, the pardoning financial impostors who have cheated on Danes' tax dollars during the Covid-19 crisis, and it leaves no room for the Folketing to increase the penalties for people committing crime in the coming years. The big battle number should have been that the exiles were to be sent out of the country and put in a prison that Denmark rented for the purpose. But it's ended up in a patch solution. Lapping solutions have plagued Danish immigration policy for decades, and that is precisely why, in other words, to break up with it, we founded New Citizens. The expelled criminal aliens will be transported back to Denmark and released into Danish society, if that is what they want, with the agreement and therefore also with the bill. And then we're straight on. We may have secured a little capacity in Danish prisons, but we have not come one step closer to getting criminal foreigners out of Denmark. I and New Citizens cannot support that. Nor can we support the fact that the draft law relaxes the conditions of some of the criminal Danes who have been given longer sentences. The proposal states that an anklet secondment will also be possible for sentences of more than six months, so that inmates can be posted after one third of the sentence has passed. As I read the bill and here the Minister has to correct me, if I am wrong there is in principle nothing to prevent, for example, that. a rapist may use the scheme. This is a major relaxation that we cannot vote in favour of. The idea that we in the New Citizens' Party cannot support the proposal is also that we should now pardon the people who have fraudulentd the aid packages under the corona. They must have halved their sentence with retroactive effect. It is believed that they fill too much in prisons and that room should be created for others. It's principleless and contrary to my sense of justice. If you have been convicted of such serious crimes in the courts, then politicians will not have to lower the penalty afterwards because there is a shortage of space in prisons; then you will have to create more seats. And, finally, if you are to pardon the prison sentence for urgent space, there are vulnerable groups among, for example, homeless Danes who instead of prison should have a helping hand to cope with everyday life and who could have chosen to pardon instead. Last but not least, the proposal here raises money from Danish taxpayers' pockets to cancel the debts of criminals. I and New Citizens do not see the reasonableness of a convicted criminal being given the same opportunity as an entrepreneur or a carpenter for debt relief. The criminal has enriched himself on the property of others; the entrepreneur and carpenter who goes bankrupt has both tried to create something for themselves and jobs for others. This shows a lack of respect for taxpayers and the productive people in our country. With these words, I must inform you that New Citizens are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124551	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made to Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124555	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. I was a little surprised that Mrs Pernille Vermund said that because those sentenced to expulsion who are to serve in Kosovo can return to Denmark, New Citizens cannot support the agreement. I hope that Mrs Pernille Vermund is not surprised that the problem of expulsions is not resolved in a criminal justice agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124624	It comes as a surprise to me that you look this up as a big battle number and say that now criminal foreigners who are sentenced to expulsion have to leave the country, now they have to go down to Kosovo, and thus there are probably a lot of Danes out there who believe that thank God we are rid of them. But that's not a fact. The fact is that the Danes are not at all aware of whether these people are in Kosovo or whether they are in their prison in Rings, which today are for those sentenced to expulsion. On the other hand, the Danes feel, just as today, that those sentenced to expulsion have the opportunity to return to Denmark and walk freely among us. That's why I just feel like you don't have to sell this to the Danes like it's a hardcore alien policy. It's not. This has nothing to do with hardcore immigration policy. As long as the prison places in Kosovo are comparable to those in Denmark, it does not matter whether, as long as you cannot be free in society, you are sitting in Kosovo or in Rings or on Langeland. The day they are released, the day they are done serving, they can walk freely in Denmark on the same footing as those who have served in Ringe. That's why this has nothing to do with foreign policy. I recognize that some prison places are being released. It has nothing to do with foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124730	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124733	Mrs Pernille Vermund's reply actually shocks me, because this is the bound task that was to find 400 prison places, and by sending those sentenced to expulsion to Kosovo we find 300 prison places. So this has nothing to do with foreign policy. It's a criminal justice agreement. And when Mrs Pernille Vermund then claims that the Danes cannot feel it, I would say: yes, the Danes can. Because now we don't have to let them go on the streets and alleys because they have to wait to serve in Denmark. Now we've found the seats. So how will New Citizens find 400 prison places if you do not want to use prisons abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124821	Firstly, there are only 300 prison places in Kosovo. We have 400 deportees serving in Denmark, so there will still be 100 serving in Denmark. The problem has not been solved; a problem of capacity has been resolved approximately. So you don't. When I criticise this in relation to foreign policy, it is because there are parties, including the government, that make this appear as if it is a foreign policy. It is possible that Conservatives have not been involved, but it is quite clear to me that when the government has presented the proposal here, it has been made to sound as if we are now hardcore towards foreigners, but it does not really matter, and that is also why the SF can be part of this agreement, on which they have, by the way, got a very fine impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124858	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124903	Thank you. First of all, it's not true that these people aren't going out. They are going out, and they have nothing to do in Denmark. That is why they are being sent to Kosovo and, by far, the vast majority will then be sent home to the countries to which they are going afterwards. In addition, I would just like to say that what Mrs Pernille Vermund says when she speaks of pardon is factually wrong and that it is really quite lame to stand on the platform and use those words and the assertions when it is not true. So I would just like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund to confirm that there is no one in Danish prisons today who, with this agreement, gets some free ticket and then gets to leave prisons. It is the way to change the penalty so that instead of quadrupling it will double the penalty, but no one has been convicted today who will get a discount. Could Mrs Pernille Vermund confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506124948	You can call it what you want. The fact is, you cut the penalty half. You cut the penalty for people who have already committed these crimes. You cut the penalty half way, and you do so with your eyes open because you want to get them out of prison more quickly. That is the purpose. Whether we call it pardon or you let them go early to make room for others, I don't care. The fact is that when, in relation to those you choose to get free before the time we had agreed in the law on the covid restrictions, I choose to use exactly this group to create space in prisons, then strikes me at it. So, I think it is crazy that, of all the groups for which the penalty could be reduced, one chooses to reduce the penalties for people who have committed financial fraud, fraud under the covid-19 and with the covid-19 funds. I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506125047	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506125051	Well, that's bullshit. 'Cause no one with this deal gets pardoned from a punishment. No one has been sentenced to a penalty now, who gets a discount. It will be the case that the future, to be judged for Corona crime, will have a doubling of their prison sentence and a quadrupling of their penalty. Nobody's in jail right now getting a pardon. Then I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund something. Now it is so evident that it is New Citizens' policy that we must start pardoning a lot of people in Denmark. Then Mrs Pernille Vermund could not mention who is to be pardoned? Because there's no one in here and no one in this deal who's been talking about pardoning anyone. So is this the way we solve the problems in Danish prisons starting to pardon people?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506125133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506125136	Whether you call it a pardon or whether you call it the release of people early, you're gonna be half the punishment for people who have committed a crime with this law. These are people who have already committed a crime, and they had the prospect of a long sentence, and now you're half the penalty for them. That is a fact, and if the Social Democracy denies it, I think we should send it to the Detector.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506125201	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. And no more rapporteurs in the Chamber have asked to speak, so we have reached the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506125224	Thank you, Mr President, and thank the rapporteurs for the debate. The proposal we are debating today must, overall and above all, help to balance the situation or restore some of the challenges that have been faced in the field of criminal justice, as the SF rapporteur also said. As most people are now familiar with it, we are pressured to the utmost. There is a lack of space in prisons and detentions, the evidence is historically high, and we lack officers to carry out the core task of ensuring both control and rehabilitation. At the same time, criminal justice services generally experience that inmates have become more hardened and negative than in the past. This places greater demands on our prison officers, and it places greater demands on the capacity of prisons. That is why I am also pleased that my predecessor, in December last year, concluded an agreement on the criminal justice economy from 2022 to 2025. The agreement provides a solid foundation for a long and necessary recovery of criminal justice. We were missing up to 1 000 places in the criminal services in 2025, and I am therefore pleased to say that the agreement jointly handles the bound task of providing those places. The draft law we are discussing today aims to implement those parts of the agreement that require amendment of the law. Most of the measures are not included in the agreement, but they are also some of the most important ones. The draft law, like the multiannual agreement in general, is based on a fundamental principle of law and duty. Those inmates who choose the community to live up to their duties and who show that they really want to live a life free from crime must also have the necessary support and the necessary crime prevention offers. I think that is only sensible. Conversely, inmates who do not want to comply with the common rules of the game and who create insecurity and expose other inmates, but also employees, to threats and violent assaults, must meet with a more clear consequence and a minimum of privileges of law and duty. I do not think I am being too full if I say that the initiative on prison places abroad is of the greatest interest, and that is only natural, as it is a political break-up. On 26 April, a few days ago, my predecessor signed an agreement to rent prison places in Kosovo. I think it was a good day, a happy day, and I would also like to say that as former Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, because the agreement provides a framework for Denmark to send up to 300 expelled foreigners to serve in Kosovo. Thus we create better space in the Danish prisons, and we relieve the pressure on our prison officers so that they can use more of their powers on the inmates who will sooner or later enter Danish society and hopefully become a part of the community anew. At the same time, we are sending a clear signal to those sentenced to expulsion that their future is not in Denmark. Of course, work in Kosovo must be done under conditions which are basically equivalent to the Danish prisons and which are in line with the international commitments that we have entered into. This is guaranteed by the Treaty, and this is guaranteed by the legislative proposal we are debating today. With the bill, we put down among other things. The Code of Penalty in force in Kosovo prison and we provide relevant supervisory authorities, such as: Parliamentary Ombudsman access to the prison, and the prison will be subject to a Danish leadership. As the draft law makes clear, there is a major implementation task ahead of us. Among other things, the prison must: In order to adapt to conditions which are basically similar to Danish prisons, we will be able to continue to raise questions of both a legal and a practical nature. With the bill, we also announce a fight with the inmates who attack the prison staff and repeatedly break the rules of the game in prisons and detentions. Unfortunately, in the last year, criminal justice services have seen the environment ravaged in prisons, where a group of increasingly harder and more dangerous inmates expose the prison staff to violence and threats. Of course, we should not put up with that. It is very, very important to me that we take good care of our prison officers, who each day carry out a crucial task for our society in creating security and security. It is possible that the work of the prison officers is more hidden away than that of the pedagogues or social workers or school teachers or police officers, but the work they do is no less important for that reason. With the bill, we are carrying out a review of the disciplinary penalty system and a doubling of the penalties for violence against staff in the institutions of criminal justice. It must have noticeable consequences if you attack the staff. Similarly, a clear signal must be sent to all inmates. If you cannot figure out how to meet the demands of an inmate, then you lose some privileges. On the other hand, if you live up to the rules of the game and want a life free from crime, then society can actually come to help. As I said, it is about right and duty. We are also using tougher means in relation to those convicted, who do not show up for service, also an important area. A prison sentence is not something you can get away from with impunity just because it doesn't suit you to show up. First of all, it is offensive to the sense of justice. There must be respect for the punishment, and therefore there is also a need to tighten up the rules further. Having said that, as I said, there is a need to reach out to the inmates who want a life free from crime. We must strengthen crime prevention and support a better transition to the surrounding society after serving, and we do so, among other things. By introducing a new model of integration and permanent days of release at the beginning of the week, and we equate the debts of criminal costs with other debts, so that more forgiveness can be achieved if, moreover, the conditions imposed on them are met. With those comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. I look forward to further consideration here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise during the committee's work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506125840	Thank you for that and there is a brief comment. Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506125843	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is not true that it is a political choice to solve the capacity problems in criminal justice by setting up prison places abroad. There are, of course, other ways of solving the problems of capacity, for example. by moving around, e.g. by increasing the use of community service, increasing the use of ankle chains and such solutions. So I just need the Minister to confirm that it is a political choice from the conciliation parties and the government that you solve the capacity problems... or perhaps I would say more that you think that you are solving the capacity problems in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506125928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506125930	All the capacity problems in criminal justice are not solved simply by renting prison places in Kosovo, but this is quite a significant contribution. And then Enhedslisten's rapporteur is right that the agreement reached between the government and a number of parties in the Folketing is based on political elections. There is no policy of necessity here. You could also choose to reduce the penalty. You could choose to let people out earlier. There are plenty of different political choices that can be made. The agreement that has been reached is a patchwork of many different political choices, and one of them is to rent prison places in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506130010	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506130012	My next question is as specific as they are prison places, because I understand that the language that is supposed to be spoken in this prison is English. I just want to ask the Minister what to do if you can't speak English. How, then, do you communicate with the prison officers, or how do the prison officers communicate with the inmates? For example, it's coming. to meet Danish standards for interpretation rules? These are very small things that you might take for granted that you can understand each other in a prison, but you won't be able to do that here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506130052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506130053	As the rapporteur rightly points out, there are still a number of practical outstanding issues that need to be settled before the prison can be put into service. The rule of thumb is, of course, that basically it should be the same conditions that would be imposed in Kosovo as would be imposed in Denmark as a starting point. The prerequisite for the opening of the prison and for the first prisoners to be flown to Kosovo is for all these small and great practical challenges to be settled within the framework of the commitments we have entered into, including human rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506130131	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506130148	The debate is open. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506130200	Thank you. The legislative proposal we have to deal with is not the easiest way to get through, but when EU legislation is put together with the area of bankruptcy and insolvency, it will probably be a long one and it will be difficult, but nevertheless it is also important. The reason for the bill is that the Board of Competitors was originally asked to consider how to improve the possibilities of starting new business after bankruptcy. Since then, the Reconstruction or insolvency Directive has been adopted in the EU and the Board of Competitors was also asked to assess the legislative consequences of the directive. The Board of Competitors has made a number of recommendations on which the draft law is largely based. In general terms, the proposal is primarily intended to implement the Reconstruction and Insolvency Directive into Danish law. The deadline for implementation of the Directive is 17 July 2022, so it is a little urgent. And then the aim of the bill is to create a better framework for companies that are viable but have financial difficulties to survive rather than end up in bankruptcy and, at the very least, can get out well on the other side. As a society, we want the good companies that face some hardship not to be knocked out, but to be able to cope with the cuts so that they can help create growth and jobs for Denmark in the future. Finally, the draft law aims to change the rules for debt relief. The rules need to be changed so that we can improve the ability of entrepreneurs, including entrepreneurs, to get started again and start new business after bankruptcy, and then we need to make the rules more flexible and up-to-date. After all, these are complicated rules that we are dealing with here, and that is also why we have had the Compete Council to look at them and make their recommendations, which are the basis of the bill. We can support the bill. And I should say hello from the Enhedslisten and say that they also support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506130357	Thank you, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg and the Social Democratic Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506130415	Thank you. The proposal we are debating today is a proposal of 278 pages, with which I have it here, and it was tabled six working days ago. One thing can be said with a state guarantee: no one in the Folketing has read it. We have tried to get to grips with the main points, but I think it is actually a bit of a parody of a legal procedure when you come up with proposals of this size and this complexity so close to the deadline for consideration here. The proposal is very difficult to understand, but it means, I can conclude, some provisions that we have had to follow under EU law, and then the talk is basically no longer. Of course we have to adopt this. We must do so when the European Union comes up with its directives. That is a consequence of being a member. However, I do not fail to note the main points of the proposal: you make new rules for something called preventive reconstruction, that is, where we have today reconstructed companies • that is what replaced payment orders • yes, then you can now get an even earlier step called preventive reconstruction. There is a ban on enforcement, which means that the right to change can be made to declare that there can be no attachment to one's assets. I really want that, but I don't think it's gonna be that easy. At least there are conditions that must be met. Then you get as a luxury an early warning from the public. From some machines that can see when you are getting into trouble, you get a warning that now you have to take and seek some help. Of course, no one can object to that, but I suspect that most people themselves are aware that the shoe is starting to pinch. These should be simplified procedures, simplified voting procedures for the shiftwork process and amended rules for company pledges. It is quite correct, as the previous rapporteur said, that all this is a product of the Competition Council, in other words the Permanent Advisory Council of the Ministry of Justice in this area. But I must not fail to note that they themselves consider the proposal to be extremely complex and bureaucratic, and even the report of the Competition Council adds that it may in many cases cost the company whose economy is lagging behind; that is not exactly what they needed. But whatever it is, it is a proposal that we must implement. The left will vote for it. However, I should like to add an ape dabei: there is also a rather complicated rule in this respect about cooperatives, namely that you should have the value of the cooperative certificate paid. So, whoever is insolvent or otherwise in trouble can apply these rules and get the value of the cooperative certificate paid within 3 months. This is obviously causing some problems in the cooperatives, and that is something that we will have to bear out in committee. It is simply too technical to get through here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506130747	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506130802	I am in agreement with my colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Preben Bang Henriksen's remarks that this is a huge bill. I was just sitting here and counting on the number of pages we had to read today. 573. It's in fact a piece of cake, and it tells a little about the pressure of work up here towards the summer vacation. It is not humanly possible to read it in less than a week. Well, that's not what I had to say. After all, the proposal here is a comprehensive one, and it must implement an EU directive on reconstruction and insolvency. It must ensure that viable businesses and entrepreneurs, who may experience financial storms, have access to a good and effective framework. It must also ensure that insolvent and heavily indebted entrepreneurs can benefit from full debt relief after a reasonable period of time and have a second chance to get back on their feet. And then the proposal must ensure that there are effective and improved procedures for reconstruction in solvency treatment and debt relief in our society at all. We think that is excellent. It is also proposed to align the duration of the repayment period in the context of debt relief. It is now set to be three years for traders, debtors and non-profit-making debtors. Here we note that the Ministry of Justice has accepted the Maritime and Commercial Law's request for clarification, so that it is now clear that if a large part of the debtor's debt is student debt and the debtor does not have other debts from a commercial activity, the repayment period may be extended up to 6 years. That also makes sense. The main organisation of the trade union movement, FH, states in its consultation answer that there is a need for a special focus on the ability of employees to recover claims, as employees usually have the wage income as their primary dependency base. The Ministry of Justice also notes that it is inappropriate for employees to have to force the employer into a general reconstruction or bankruptcy in order to secure their claims, and it is therefore necessary to amend the bill so that employees' demands are not locked in the context of preventive reconstruction. That sounds smart, too. With those comments, I can say that we expect to support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506131030	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506131038	Thank you very much. The purpose of this bill is to implement the Reconstruction and Insolvency Directive. It is a very comprehensive legislative proposal, as my fellow Members have already mentioned, and I shall vote in favour of it. Preben Bang Henriksen, compared to the fact that it is complicated and extensive. That is why I have also had the good help of other rapporteurs from the Radical Left to look this through, and we expect to back up this bill. It must come into force on 17 July 2022, and therefore I have just one question which the Minister might answer when he comes up here: we have known for a long time, and the Minister knew for a long time that it would come into force at that time, so why is it that it is only so late and that we have so little time to prepare for a first reading? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506131141	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506131211	If you go bankrupt with a company, you will in many cases have a certain amount of debt, and sometimes it is so large that under normal circumstances you will never be able to become debt-free, so that when, for example, you get the debt-free. Insolvent and heavily indebted entrepreneurs can become debt-free after a shorter period than the present one, at many levels it will be a gain not only for the individual but also for society, because we need entrepreneurs who dare to take a chance, without necessarily risking being in debt for the rest of their lives. When you start a business, it does not necessarily become a brave success every time, and you risk having to close the company with losses. It's a risk you take. And if the risk is too high, for example. debt for the rest of your life, it is likely to keep many from trying. As a society, we cannot afford not to have entrepreneurs. There are successful entrepreneurs and their businesses generate revenue for our common society. While at the same time in this draft law it is suggested that before the actual dissolution of the company can come under a preventive reconstruction, the proposal makes good sense all around. Our country is based on entrepreneurship and people who have taken a chance. Some have had brilliant success and others the opposite. But basically we need people to create businesses, jobs and earnings, and if we can make it a little easier for them to do so, we would like to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506131347	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I can give the floor to the Conservative rapporteur. It's Mrs. Britt Baker. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506131402	Thank you. I shall be very brief and simply say that the Conservative People's Party supports this proposal. It is a proposal that implements the Reconstruction and Insolvency Directive. Of course, we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506131418	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I can give the floor to the rapporteur of the new citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506131432	I do not want to repeat that this is both a complex proposal and a proposal which we would very much have liked to have had a little earlier. We are a few who have talked about having had a technical review of this proposal, because it is, after all, quite extensive, but since it is the implementation of an EU directive, we just have to say that, like so many times before, we have our hands tied on our backs. In spite of the fact that we will have a technical review, we will have to vote it through. There may then be details in it, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen also mentioned earlier, which we may have the opportunity to move on a little. So the question is, since it is almost all the rapporteurs who have been up to mention it, whether it is appropriate for us in committee to ask for a little technical assistance or how we should deal with it, but that is what we shall do during the committee procedure. I'm sorry I'm late. We're locked up by protestors, and I've contacted the President, so it should be working out. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506131533	That's right. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Yeah, you can get out of here on walking legs and with your bike, but if you're in a car, you can't. So you can't get in right now either. There's protesters out there glued on. However, this should not prevent us from continuing the legislative process, and so all the rapporteurs who wanted to speak here at first reading have taken the floor, and I can then give the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506131608	Thank you, Mr President, and thank the rapporteurs for the debate. When I started as a new minister on Monday, I was told that there were a number of first readings in a few days' time which were quite extensive, and that is why I have set the alarm clock at a little early and also been up a little late, and this bill was one of those I had to read in the morning, because if it happened at night, I am not sure that I would be able to stay awake. But first of all I would like to thank you for the positive speeches that have been made here from the platform. It is, of course, a legislative proposal which is very long and very complex and I shall try to make my introduction brief. The main purpose of the bill is to implement the Reconstruction and Insolvency Directive into Danish law. Secondly, the aim of the draft law is basically to create a better framework for needy companies to recover from economic times of crisis so that they can live on and help create growth on the other hand. Finally, the draft law aims to change the debt relief rules, on the one hand, to improve the ability of entrepreneurs, including entrepreneurs, to start a new business after bankruptcy and, on the other hand, to make the rules more up-to-date, so that we ensure that heavily indebted debtors are given a second chance. The aim of the present draft law is to help traders at risk of becoming insolvent to avoid insolvency and to help heavily indebted traders and non-economic debtors recover. I think we can all agree that the draft law contains some rather technical and very complicated rules. Fortunately, we have a good foundation to stand on as a result of the very good work of the Compete Council and their recommendations on how to achieve our goal. One question that has had to be dealt with is how to ensure that employees whose employers are in bankruptcy are not put in an unnecessarily difficult situation. With the new rules, companies will be able to start a preventive reconstruction earlier than today, i.e. before the company is actually insolvent. I do not think we can reasonably ask the employees employed in such a company to do without their wages if the company alone is likely to be insolvent. That is why the government is proposing with the bill that employees' demands should not be stopped during preventive reconstruction treatment. In this respect, the draft law therefore derogates from the Bankruptcy Council's presentation. For many years it has been a problem that particularly insolvent farmers have not had the opportunity to include a reconstruction or bankruptcy in their holding on a holding account. Instead, the farmer has been faced with a tax requirement year after year, which has helped to keep the farmer in financial difficulties without any possibility of improvement. We're gonna change that now. With the draft law, we therefore allow for the possibility that, among other things: farmers who sell their goods through a cooperative and are taken during reconstruction or bankruptcy may be paid into their cooperative holding account in the company at one time rather than in instalments over several years. At the same time, we are allowing the entire tax claim to be included in the reconstruction or bankruptcy proceedings and thus to be settled once and for all. Together, it will create much better opportunities for farmers to recover from insolvency. With those comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for welcoming the draft law, despite the length and short implementation period under which we are working, and I have also listened to what several rapporteurs have said about the timing and the work pressure that I fully recognise there is in the Legal Affairs Committee at the moment. I look forward to further consideration here in the Danish Parliament, and we are, of course, a little more at our disposal to answer any questions that may arise during the committee's work, recognising that this is a technically heavy legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132001	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There is no wish for short remarks here. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132017	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132033	Thank you. The legislative proposal we are going to deal with here contains a large number of legislative changes aimed at making criminal proceedings more effective. After all, the penalty chain covers the process that runs from the police to the end of the case. There are many different authorities involved in this process: the police, the prosecution, the courts, the criminal services and the juvenile delinquency board, who would like to work together to get matters through the chain as quickly and flexibly as possible. Because a well-functioning criminal justice chain is important so that we can resolve crimes and punish those who are guilty as soon as possible, but it is also for the sake of the sense of justice and the victims who need clarification, as well as legal certainty prospects in dealing with and completing criminal proceedings as quickly as possible. It is no secret that for many years we have not been where we would like to be in relation to the treatment of criminal proceedings. The proceedings are too long and the victims have to wait too long to end a perhaps traumatizing period in their lives. This bill then tries to provide the authorities with tools that can help to help work on the way. These are a variety of measures which, overall, would like to make the work of the police more effective. I will not spend time reviewing the individual parts in detail, but, as I said, turn on several different handles; among other things. the ability of the police to block websites is extended and the police have access to record the whereabouts of a suspect or other person using a GPS or other similar device without a court order, subject to the condition that the requirement of a court order is maintained in cases where the location or monitoring of a GPS requires entry into private territory or interference with private property. It also extends the possibility of holding hearings using telecommunications and extends the scope for the police to publish the description and photographs of a suspected perpetrator. In addition to these and other measures that will in practice help the police in particular in their role in the criminal proceedings chain, part of the draft law also contains changes to the juvenile delinquency board. This part of the bill contains measures such as: ensure increased use of immediate response and make the board process more efficient and more flexible. All in all, this is a proposal with many good measures and adjustments. There is no quick fix of the challenges that we see in the criminal justice chain, it is a long, cool move, but the actions that this bill contains help to bring us in the right direction. We therefore support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132316	Thank you, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg. There are no brief comments. Yeah, that's where it just came in a little late on the screen, sorry. This is Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132330	Thank you. Yeah, it's kind of like I had to get a warrant before I had to ask a question, and then it's a little late, but actually pretty fast. And that is actually what I would like to ask you. There are a lot of suggestions in this bill, but one of them is simply that the police should be able to register people's gps position, i.e. know where we're wandering around, everywhere, without any warrant. What is it that makes the Social Democrats think that the good sound principle that we have in our community of law, that one should have a court order before monitoring people to a large extent, is no longer necessary? Is it because it's hard to get a warrant? Is it going too slow? That is certainly not my impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132413	It will be the case with the proposal that we are now proposing that it is still the case that if it is on private property or in a private means of transport, then you still have to get away with a court order. What we are proposing with this proposal is to go back to, as the rules were before 2018, where it is possible for the police to assess what one considers best to prioritise, for example. putting a GPS on a vehicle. And that's to make the process more flexible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132439	Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132441	One gets the impression, when one hears about this bill, that it is a debureaucratisation, that in various areas it is done away with, that one has to have a court order; this also applies to going in and blocking websites. I think it's a little nasty to call it a debureaucratisation or to simplify things. It is, of course, the legal certainty of the citizens that people file on. Does the Social Democratic Party in general believe that it is a sound principle that a court order must be made before citizens' freedoms are curtailed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132512	Yes, that is also why, before this bill is tabled, we have been specified that if it is the case that the police, for example. will place a gps for monitoring on a private area or engage in an interference with private property, then a court order still needs to be removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132533	The next brief remark is to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132536	Yeah, I'm gonna follow up on sir. Alex Vanopslagh, because that wasn't an answer at all. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh asked for a gps monitoring, and then the answer is twice in a row that if it's on private territory, you have to have a warrant. Well, private area? Is that how you gps-track people in their own homes? No, in practice we might as well speak Danish • of course a gps that are put up under the car, and I understand the police must be given the opportunity to do so, but I also understand that they must be allowed to know where I am going, and therefore I do not understand that the demand for a court order is not included here. For example, if you want to block a website, that is quite correct, but why is it not included here? And let's just forget about that one with private space, because that's quite, quite hypothetical. What we're talking about is when it's out in public.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132628	The entire legislative proposal here, as I said, has been made to make the process for our authorities easier and more flexible. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh called it debureaucratisation, and that is true. It's about making the chain more flexible, and that's what we're doing with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132647	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132648	So how much does this save?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132653	I do not think we can do that and, as I said at the end of my speech, this is not a quick fix. But Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen knows as a long-standing user of the system that there are plenty of things that both our good judges and police and other authorities can spend their time on. That is why this is a legislative proposal in which we try to make the process more flexible, for example. Our police.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132721	The next brief remark is to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132726	I would really like to continue a little in the same genre, because I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is the case that he believes that we are making more effort to have a basis of suspicion in place when we are going down to show it to an independent third party who has to approve it than we are doing if we are just going to have to authorise an intervention ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132754	No, but I have, for example. respect for the fact that the police sometimes need to be able to make quick decisions for example. to be able to solve a potential case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132806	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132808	I believe that if you are going to go down a judge, you are going to make an effort on the basis of suspicion, and it is not really about whether you can take action quickly, because that is something that can be approved for the purpose, that is. Afterwards, if you're going to start it. But if we are to follow the thinking that legal certainty should be made more effective in this way and remove the court order, should we not also do so for wiretapping or interference in the secret of notification? Can't we just as well just take out all the places where we have a warrant?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132841	No, and that is not what we are proposing with this proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132850	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132851	It is true that this bill is not being proposed, but it is also true what Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt says. If that is the argument put forward by the Socialists, why not just remove all court orders? If the warrant is so big a problem for the police and it's so important that it goes fast, why not just remove all the warrants? What are we supposed to do with them?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132913	After all, I have tried to explain that it is not the case that court orders are no longer required after this draft law, for example. I'm gonna go in there and monitor something on private property. However, neither in this proposal nor in future proposals will we be able to say that court orders should no longer be used, as Mrs Lund asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132937	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506132938	But what is the argument for not having the court order here? I don't understand. Why doesn't it have to be there? It is a fundamental principle that the court order must be there. And it is true that if you have to make a court order if that is what it takes you to make more effort, then the basis of suspicion becomes more thorough, and we can thus ensure that it will not happen either, that people are suspected of something they have never actually done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133009	What we're up to here is actually just taking those rules in this area and taking them back to what they were before 2018. Generally speaking, this bill is about simplifying a whole series of things in the criminal justice chain, making it easier for our police and authorities. But this is also listening to our police and authorities in order to make it easier for them to do their job.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133043	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133045	Thank you. I have great respect for the Danish police, but they are there for the citizens and not the other way around, and I have to say that I am really, really worried every time these proposals come from the Social Democrats and the government, which clearly show that there is no stopping point when it comes to exceeding citizens' freedoms. I mean, it almost seems like the thing about freedoms is a bit of administrative trouble, where they say: can't we just remove them? I have to say that I think we are sitting almost a whole Parliament that is speechless that you can propose something like this, not just the GPS proposal, but also some of the other one that lies in it. Doesn't there seem to be any stopping blocks in relation to how far you want to go? That is my one question, and the other is: should we consider creating a motto for the Social Democratic Party, which is called "More system, less people"? Because that's where we're going now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133139	First of all, I would like to thank you for the proposal for a new slogan. I would like to take this opportunity to say: no, we are not putting up with anything other than what I have explained in relation to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133151	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133151-2	When I ask whether there is no stopping point, it is because this is not the only proposal we have had in the Chamber lately, and in fact since the government took over power, which has been quite far-reaching, in other words, where it is really a little hassle, that law-abiding Danes are allowed to have their freedom, because you think it is more important that you can give the police resources and make it easier for the police to work. Again, I have great respect for the police, but they are there for the citizens and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133225	I also have great respect for the Danish police, and I also agree that we must take care of the legal certainty of our citizens. In this proposal, it is still the case that if the police are to place something in a private area, require intrusion into a private area or want to interfere with private property, then it requires a court order, and it will do so on the basis of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133248	The next brief remark is to Mrs Britt Baker, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133251	Thank you. I'd like to hear Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg, whether the police have indicated that it is a major problem and a great burden for them to ask for a court order.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133302	Now Danish police are some who are also good at doing their job within the framework that we in the Danish Parliament decide to do their job within. And we've looked into how to make it more flexible for the police. But I am convinced that the police also think this is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133327	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133328	So it is simply a proposal and a wish that the Social Democratic Party or the government has made up. I think that's quite interesting. The police haven't even said that this is a challenge. Then I'd like to hear sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, whether he can remember, or whether he knows why the previous government removed that rule in its time, in 2018. Because it's been like this before. Is Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg knows why it was that we introduced that there should now be a court order?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133403	I think that, in relation to the latter part, we still have representatives, even though Mrs Britt Baker has changed a little. It is still the same people who have been involved in making the rules, so I think Mrs Britt Baker will have to entertain that when she gets on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133419	The next brief remark is to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133422	Thank you. Debureaucratisation and the fact that things have to be made more effective as a rule tend to mean that we can then measure the debureaucratisation that then takes place and the efficiency that is being achieved. And I just think that the rapporteur did not respond very well to Mr Seligman's question. Preben Bang Henriksen's second question. What exactly is the saving here? What is the level of debureaucratisation? Can we measure it, can we see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133454	There are a lot of things in this society that you can't measure and weigh or make up in excelark, even though we in here have been good at it for many years. But there are things you can feel out there, and we're moving around a few different things, and that's what we're trying to do with it, so actually cleaning up and making it easier and more flexible. And also make sure that some of the long processing times that have been are shorter and that we make sure that some of the victims who are sitting out there get more certainty, and that the sense of justice among many Danes also gets certainty more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133526	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133527	So there's a lot of things you can't measure, and this has to be one of them. Because I am thinking that if you want to argue to dismantle the rule of law and the legal certainty of the citizens, it might well be in some economy, but it does not really do so either. So, my suspicion is that it is because, like the former Minister of Justice, social democracy is simply running according to the idea that monitoring is good and that it is monitoring that guarantees freedom. That's the way it is for Mr. Knox. Bjørn Brandenborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133603	Well, yes, I very much agreed with the ambitions of the former Minister of Justice in ensuring that there are more people who can walk around safely in our society today. I understand that Mrs Samira Nawa also has such a little more conspiracy theoretic approaches to what that means and what these are positions we then have in the government. However, we are firmly committed to the rule of law, and we are doing so on the basis of this proposal. It is a simple matter of trying to make criminal proceedings more effective, making it easier and giving our authorities more time to do their job.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133644	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506133659	Thank you. Here, after all, we are down to 88 pages of magazines that we have had six working days to study. But it's not as complicated as it used to be. Nevertheless, I have to say that we have succeeded in combining a great many different things, probably in order for the government to have fulfilled what the Prime Minister proclaimed, namely that we must have fewer laws through the Folketing here. And this is practiced in a way that, for example, mixes GPS surveillance with the Youth Crime Board. Well, it's easy to get fewer laws. With these introductory remarks, I should like to say that this is a good proposal which helps to reduce the length of proceedings in criminal proceedings, at least a little. When I say that this is a good proposal, I shall come back to one exception, and it may not be entirely surprising to the Minister what it is. According to the proposal, websites can be blocked if, for example, they relate to large-scale fraud, and that might well be the case, I would say. People are not supposed to be deceived through websites and phishing. But I also think it is quite important to see here that the blockage takes place after a court order. And I would like to ask: why does it really need a warrant here? I am about to say that, in some way, this may be a less personal intervention than what we will be doing in a moment. It was the websites. The proposal also contains proposals for detention under the Aliens Act, that is to say that it can be done on television, and that is quite reasonable. It is, of course, to a large extent a summary procedure that takes place in those situations. There is then a limitation on the number of indictments, however, so that the media can continue to have their knowledge needs met. That is all right in our view. And then there is the possibility that the police can publish pictures of suspected perpetrators. Special rules apply to this, and publication takes place here, among other things. in order to find witnesses to the work in question, and no one can object to it either. Finally, it is also mentioned that there must now be better opportunities for immediate sanctions in the Youth Crime Board. Penalty sanctions are popular, you know, this whole washing of a fire truck thing. And if it didn't help what we did last time, then it's fine to get to grips with it. There remains the point that the Left cannot support, and that is that without a warrant, the police can gps-track a person's movements, for example. By placing it on the person's car It must be absolutely fundamental that you have to pass a judge in that situation. I know that the Socialist rapporteur was busy telling us what it was like if it were on private property and that it could not be done, etc. Now it's rare for the police to want to gps-track whether I'm in the kitchen or in the bathroom or where I'm at. It's just quite, quite sought. What we are talking about here is that the police put a GPS under the car if they suspect a person, and of course the police should be allowed to do so, no doubt about that. The police have to solve crimes. But they need to get past a judge to ensure that the basic conditions, including the proportionality of the crime being investigated, are in order. And then I think it's all being hit a little bit by the fact that you have no idea what this is actually going to give of savings. So summa summarum: Left can agree to the proposal, except the GPS part. And it will probably be split up if the Minister does not give up the idea by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134101	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It's first Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134105	Thank you. I do not know if I heard wrong, and I hope I did, but it is part of the proposal that is about restricting media access to public access: is it true that the Left supports it? And can the rapporteur tell us why it is important that the media have even more limited access to documents?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134125	I have either expressed myself wrong or we have both misunderstood it. I understand the proposal that the request for access to a larger number of indictments must be justified at the same time. But I also seem to recall that it says that precisely as far as the media are concerned, this restriction should not have any significance when the media want to inform a wider public. So, as I read the proposal, it is not a restriction that affects the media. If this is true against expectation, I agree with Mrs Pernille Vermund that we should of course look into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134204	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134205	Well, we'll have to ask the minister about that. In other words, when it is part of a proposal that would make it more efficient and debureaucratise, it can be called, and when it comes from the government and is about a change in the rules of the Code of Procedure on access for mass media to indictments and requests for a hearing, and when the proposed amendment would require that requests for access to a larger number of indictments and requests for a hearing should be reasonably justified, I assume that this is the case today, that there is no requirement for it to be reasonably justified, because the media today have the possibility of access to documents, even if it is in a larger number of cases. These, for example, could be the stories we've heard from B.T., who's taken a count of the assault rapes. I think it's called "and contact rapes." I hope that the Left is not against them making stories like that and counting like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134300	I can guarantee that the Left is not against that. Now I have not brought the proposal up here, but per. remembrance continues the sentences · but it may well be that I am mad at the fact that somehow in the bill itself to exempt the mass media. But I can be mad at it, and if I am and if Mrs Pernille Vermund is right, that is of course something we must look at, because it is not something the Left is in favour of. So it certainly ends with us agreeing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134321	The next brief remark is to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134324	Thank you. My question to the rapporteur follows on from Mrs Pernille Vermund's question. This is in relation to restricting media access to public access to a large number of legal proceedings, where it is now up to the media to prove that they have a particular reason to have that access to documents. Can it not be a concern that every time it is inconvenient for the authorities to grant access to documents, one has to say that that reason is not strong enough? That is one question. The second is that, as I understand the Left, it is also going to be supported here by the fact that companies can be subject to penalties for speeding up. If I have understood the proposal correctly, it is the case that if I have a one-man company and two employees and one of my employees is driving too fast, I can get the fine even if I have not driven too fast. Is that what the Left is backing?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134417	No. The fine must affect, I think, the driver or user is in the traffic code, and that must be where the fine should end. If we're going on another ball street with this proposal, because it's not quite directly described here either, then I agree with Mr. Alex Vanopslagh in that it should be, if I may say so, the driver and not the company that is being fined. That is one thing, and the other is about indictments and access to documents. This is already a subject for judicial review, and I would think that in this area too a court will come in to assess fairness.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134454	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134455	I actually interpret the rapporteur's response in the sense that we have a common interest in the forthcoming committee's work to have this tampered with with the absence of a court order by GPS surveillance, and that we are particularly aware that the authorities are not being given carte blanche to simply reject media access to documents and that we are also aware that it is people who are committing a breach of law in relation to the speed limits that are being punished and not someone who has them employed. It sounds like we have a common interest. We need to figure out how the law is screwed up, but I think we need to go critically to the government. We usually do that when it comes to legal policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134535	Yes, I cannot disagree with the latter and, incidentally, I also agree that we have a common interest in the points which Mr. Alex Vanopslagh mentions here. I must also be honest, as colleagues have been before me, and say that in these six working days that we have had to go through several thousand pages of legal material, I cannot guarantee that every sentence is reversed, but I can at least guarantee that those points, Mr President. Alex Vanopslagh refers to the need to be thoroughly examined during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134606	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506134626	Thank you for the floor. This is also a pile wedding of many different proposals, and I certainly cannot see that there is a link between parts of the proposal. In fact, I find it difficult to see what the Youth Crime Board has to do with, for example. closing websites and setting up gps without a court order, and for me this can be split into at least two, but perhaps also more legislative proposals, and that would probably have made the treatment of it a bit more proper. In the SF, we agree that it is of course important that the resources of the authorities are used appropriately. We also agree that the police are well placed to carry out their work and, of course, they must be able to do so, but I must also say that the desire to save resources must never be at the expense of legal certainty for the individual citizen, and I think that is a little the case here. One of the many parts of the bill is to enable the police to track a suspect with GPS, without prior court order. Of course, we need to ensure that the police can solve and investigate crime, but independent justice is therefore a central and fundamental guarantee of legal certainty, and I get off completely when using the argument resources, that it is simply too resource-intensive for the police to ask for a court order. I do not think that is quite right, because resource considerations cannot justify a weakening of citizens' legal certainty. I am also concerned about what such a resolution could set a precedent for what the next guiding principle of law, which must give way, is for us to save money and time. Then there is the fact that Copenhagen City Court says in its hearing answer that it is not difficult for the police to obtain a permit to track a suspect if the conditions are met. Often the Copenhagen City Court deals with requests for investigative action on the same day as they are received, and that being said, the police already have the possibility today that they can start a tracking immediately if they need it, and then they have 24 hours to submit the procedure to the judge. I believe that more effort is being made on the basis of suspicion if you are going to go down to a judge and ask whether it is okay for a trace to be carried out than if you just have to decide for yourself, and that is where legal certainty lies. From GPS tracking and court orders to kids and kids. After all, the government's bill opens up the discussion on the Youth Crime Board and what we need it for, because how do we actually ensure that children and young people are brought out of crime and back together? I am very pleased that the government is proposing to exempt children who have a severely impaired mental capacity from the appointment procedure and that it will also be possible to use child experts in cases involving children and young people between the ages of 15 and 17. After all, this is something I have had the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Social Affairs in consultation about, because the two major municipalities of Copenhagen and Aarhus, who are the ones who use it most or at least have the most cases because of the size of the municipalities, have asked for these children to be exempted, because it simply does not make sense that if you have a mental disability, you come to a Youth Crime Board. The adults cannot ask relevant questions, and the child or the young person, who may be as young as 10 years old, cannot really understand what the process is, he or she has ended up in, and cannot act on what is happening in the name either. I am rather concerned that the hearings say that it must be possible to exempt all children in order to be on the Youth Crime Board if there is a specific and individual reason why this does not make sense. So they are really up to something that is broader, and I think that is right, because there can simply be children and young people • they are down to 10 years of age who may not be mature enough to understand the process and who would not be able to profit from it, but who may not necessarily have a very severe mental impairment, because it may also be that it is just a slight mental impairment. So I really think it is a good proposal that we should continue to work on. Then I just want to give my support to this with the children's experts, because it is incredibly important that there are professionals who know about children and young people. I do not have enough time to reflect on any more proposals, and I feel a little like other parties in this Chamber today, namely that it is actually difficult to manage their speaking time in relation to so many proposals here. But we must then try to continue working on this in committee because it is not quite fair to have to go through these 10-12 proposals in five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506135153	I can agree with the rapporteur on that, but speaking time is five minutes. But there will be a little more speaking time, because there is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and then there may be an opportunity to unfold it a little more. It's from Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506135203	Thank you. It's just a simple clarification question, because I understand that we agree to be opposed to this removal of the court order in relation to gps-tracking. In relation to the proposal that is about being able to block websites now I just can't find it here... it's not so clear to me that it should be without a warrant. Now I wish I could have found it before I had to ask the question here. If, as far as I am aware, it is without a warrant, is the SF ready to support it, or does the SF also believe that we should ensure here that a warrant will of course come before blocking other people's or companies' websites?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506135247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506135248	As I understand the proposal and maybe I'm wrong, but let's get it drilled out then it will be the case that you can close a website if there is massive fraud and you need to do it right now. But then you have to ask the judge if the procedure was okay. And if the judge then says that the intervention was actually not in order, then it is clear that there must be some kind of compensation process, because it may have major intrusive consequences for the small company or large company that has shut down a website that way. So, as I understand it, legal certainty should be in order, but let us also get it out during committee proceedings. And I have actually asked for a technical review of this proposal, so we will have an opportunity to discuss the whole legislative proposal again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506135333	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506135344	Thank you. This is a bill that consists of a great many different elements that do not necessarily have anything to do with each other. These are a number of legislative changes, and one of them is, of course, to enable the police to monitor the conduct of suspects with a GPS without a prior court order. I therefore believe that we are in the process of dismantling the rule of law, dismantling the legal certainty of citizens. That means you don't have to pass a judge before you can monitor suspects or people associated with suspects. And we in the Radical Left find that extremely difficult, because where is the limit? And what's next? Is this gonna stop? Of course, we can have our concern that it does not. And that is why I am glad that a technical review of this bill has been requested; not necessarily because of this part about monitoring and gps, because it is very clear and very clear to me where I and the Radical Left stand, as it is also in relation to some of the other elements of the bill. We in the Radical Left are also very pleased that it has been proposed that children and young people with severe mental impairment should be excluded from the implementation of these measures; but we also read out of the consultation answers that it might well be that it should be spread out. The Children's Council is generally concerned about the desire for the increased use of immediate sanctions. So there are a number of things in this bill that need to be drilled during the committee procedure. At this stage, however, in the Radical Left, we cannot support the draft law as it stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506135549	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506135610	After all, we have had a new minister since a few weeks ago we dealt with a similar pile proposal that was just about nightlife. However, as almost all the rapporteur also said in this debate, and as almost all the rapporteurs have also said in this debate, it is a bad thing to put forward legislative proposals which deal with completely unrelated areas. It gives a frivolous and bad legal treatment when we stand up here with quite a few minutes to talk in and have to reach around all the topics. I think that we are all taking it seriously; that is exactly why we are asking for more time to get to grips with things and more time to discuss things, both with the government, but also with each other. When I say that, it is because the former Minister of Justice considered it an expression that the Committee on Legal Affairs did not really want to work. I just want to say that exactly the opposite is the case. This also means that I cannot get around all the changes that this bill brings, but I will make some cuts here: giving the police additional powers to monitor citizens without the judicial control that ensures that it actually happens on a proper and valid basis is under all criticism. We live in a country where, as a starting point, we have the right to freedom and privacy, and there must be essential considerations if we are to restrict citizens' rights. An economic saving by the police in Enhedslisten's optics is not a valid reason for increasing surveillance of citizens without judicial control and thus significantly weakening legal certainty. The fact that it is difficult for the police to monitor people helps in itself to ensure that they do so only in those situations where it is absolutely necessary. And if you remove the troublesome element, I think we will see even more unproportional mass monitoring of the citizens than the one we already see with the Danish logging rules. Then I would say that there are plenty of bad things to say about the existing Youth Crime Board regime, which is why it is absolutely positive to exempt children and young people with severe mental impairment from having to go through that mill. The Minister can consider, as many of the hearing answers suggest, completely abolishing the scheme so that we do not expose minors to having to go through a court-like board when the only reason they are there is that we, as a society, have failed them at an all too young age. On the other hand, it is also a bad proposal in relation to the Youth Crime Board in this bill. I would like to read out a passage from the Children's Council's Hearing Response: the proposal sets out the rules for accidents in the event of immediate reactions. We think it is very worrying that children from 10 to 14 years of age should be at risk of suffering damage for the rest of their lives, because they have been set to do manual work, as part of a political desire for children to have a consequence. It is simply not proportional. And for that I can just say that we in the Enhedslisten are one hundred percent in agreement with the Children's Council. I think that precisely in cases where children are concerned, one should listen to the organisations that know something about it, especially when one is a minister in a government with a prime minister who calls himself the children's so I do not see why one should not listen to the Children's Council. Then we can just round up the proposal to establish another possibility for the police to set up search zones, thereby violating the rights of random individuals by intervening against them, without there being a shadow of suspicion. We have seen how completely unimportant it has been to introduce the search zones used so far, and the only thing that has actually led to this is unnecessary harassment of particularly minority ethnic citizens, which is very clearly documented. How on earth can half the police visitations without grounds of suspicion affect people who are brown in the skin? This is simply not related to the so-called objective visitation that would take place in these zones. That's why in the Enhedslisten, of course, we won't in any way help expand these zones. That is why, like other rapporteurs, I would like us to have a thorough technical review of this bill and the Minister to look at the possibility of dividing up the bill. It's always nice to be invited to a wedding, but I think it's a bad idea to have these piles of weddings that we're tired of in Enhedslisten. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506140102	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506140107	I could never imagine it would be good to have a wedding with the government as long as it's red but leave it alone. Some time ago I had an interview with Berlingske, where we talked about legal policy and the importance of blue blocs also being concerned about citizens' legal certainty. I was asked: Will you, Alex Vanopslagh, be blue block response to Enhedslisten? And then I said, yes! And I think it is fantastic that Enhedslisten is almost always on the side of the citizens when it comes to legal certainty. But there is something that puzzles me, because while it is apparently important and fortunately important for the Enhedslisten to defend the legal certainty of citizens and our constitutional freedoms, and this applies almost in all areas, it does not apply to private property. The Enhedslisten is often opposed to private-owned companies; one is against it if taxes become too low, i.e. one can keep more of one's own property. I just want to understand the logic. Why can it be that people can be concerned about freedom and legal certainty in all areas other than private property? I really want to understand that logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506140201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506140202	I read the interview well with Mr. Alex Vanopslagh in Berlingske, and I also thought that it was really wonderful, because if God forbidded the majority in here, there would still be some who fought for legal certainty. So, of course, I'm glad. After all, the relationship of the unitary list with private property is not quite as the rapporteur puts it. We think that you must have your business, that you must own things. What we are concerned with is who owns the means of production, which we believe should be collective. I think that is quite simple. And if sir... Alex Vanopslagh is interested, I should like to hand over a version of Enhedslisten's program of principle, which is also often and often discussed in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506140248	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506140248-2	I feel just as good, so I'm gonna skip it. No, but that is the same logic when Enhedslisten fights not to restrict citizens' freedoms and the state must not simply monitor us or restrict our freedom or introduce search zones at will. It is the same logic that prevails when, of course, citizens are also allowed to own means of production. Can the rapporteur not see that there is an inconsistency, a lack of logic, and that removing the private property of the people or restricting the possibility of owning things, including means of production, is at least as serious an intervention in the freedom of citizens as the government repeatedly presents, and where, fortunately, both the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance usually vote against?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506140330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506140331	No, I simply do not agree with that being an interference in the freedom of citizens. After all, I believe that the citizens will have more freedom, the stronger the welfare state is. And that is where I know that the Liberal Alliance has exactly the opposite view, and in that way it is delightful, Mr President. Alex Vanopslagh, that there are also things we can disagree about. However, I think that we should bear in mind the points on which we agree today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506140354	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund and the Enhedslisten. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506140403	This is a very complex and complex proposal. There are huge numbers of elements that have nothing to do with each other at all. If we are to start with the good, then it is good that we are extending the police's ability to block websites so that we can quickly stop a fraudster, bearing in mind that a court subsequently has to issue a warrant. It is also good that we are extending the possibility of publishing a description of a suspected perpetrator, and it is also positive that there is a change in the law on juvenile delinquency. But it is by no means a good thing that the government will now allow a GPS without a court order to be imposed. A court order is the legal certainty of the citizens, and we must not save it. This proposal, as several have mentioned, is one big pile. As the proposal stands here, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal. I shall look forward to a technical examination in committee and I shall look forward to a very, very thorough examination.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506140526	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506140544	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that we can support nine out of ten points in this draft law, and that is separately what is stated in paragraph 2.9 of the draft law's comments • that which deals with a change in the juvenile delinquency law which we consider problematic and should therefore not be included in this package. As so often before, it is such a patchwork of different legislation, as the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, which is wrapped in one legislative proposal, and we think this is generally a mess. In this bill we deal with everything from blocking websites, video communication with foreigners, random checks on explosives, sharing of photos, access to indictments, issuing fines in relation to the atk system to something about juvenile delinquency. Among other things: The government wants to exempt certain young people with mental impairment from having to come to the juvenile delinquency board, and that is something we cannot support. It must be possible to take out the part dealing with juvenile delinquency and include it in the general evaluation of the •Agreement on a reform of action against juvenile delinquency • All actions have consequences • from 2018. In paragraph 2.10, the possibility of exempting children and young people with severe mental impairment from the treatment of boards states, inter alia, that:: In this context, reference shall be made, inter alia, to: that children and young people with severe mental impairment are not considered to be cognitively capable of understanding the case process and that participation in the board meeting may be a burden on the mental health of the child or young person concerned. If we go out that path, we will also be able to argue that these young people do not understand the process of the caseworker either. Or we can go even further and think that these young people also do not understand the consequences of their actions, so they must go completely free of punishment. The legal text shows that it may be young people who have, for example, adhd, infantile autism or other psychological challenges. I am aware of several young people with serious psychological challenges, one of whom has an iq of 54, i.e. they were mentally retarded to a lesser extent. Regardless of that, he was able to commit a number of perilous crimes. He was dealt with in the municipality's handicap department simply because it was here that he due to his low iq belonged to, but his absolute biggest challenge in life was that he committed lots of crime, and the disability department had no experience with that. So we cannot vote in favour of excluding these young people with psychological challenges from having their case dealt with in the juvenile delinquency committee. It is a slippery slope that with this content it will be so that various case managers suddenly find out that a number of young people can escape the mention. That's not why the name was created. In addition, paragraph 2.12 shows increased use of immediate reactions, etc.: It is the municipality that sets for an immediate reaction. It is assumed that the municipalities will have to suspend to a much greater extent than today to use immediate reaction in the cases referred to the Youth Crime Board. The proposal also states that the proposed directive does not require any re-examination of the juvenile delinquency board if the preparation period has expired and the competence to decide on the future placement lies with the municipal council or children and the youth committee under the Service Act. This means, therefore, that in practice, responsibility is being transferred to the municipal system, precisely the system that we took away from it by setting up these youth crime boards. We did so for good reasons, one of which is about the economy, so it is precisely not the same system that should impose sanctions and be the ones that pay. So here again it would make sense for a proper evaluation to be made of the juvenile delinquency board, and here it might be good that it is the municipality that stops, but also that the juvenile delinquency board can stop and thus decide that an immediate reaction should be imposed. And note again here that a so-called immediate reaction will be difficult to make immediately, as, from the young person committing crime until the case comes to light, a young person's study will have to be carried out along the way, soon takes a very long time and is the vandalism that has been committed, it needs to be repaired. Let us imagine that they are broken windows; then you can easily repair something similar without having to be what you have done directly. However, as I have said, we want to see what deals with juvenile delinquency removed so that we can vote in favour of the rest of the content of the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506141031	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506141039	Thank you for the floor. I had actually prepared a speech in which I would go through this proposal, which others have called a wedding. And I would also like to mention some of the points, but I have to put them aside a little and say that this is worrying. It is worrying that we have a government which obviously has no clutter, in other words where the understanding of freedom is about the more power the state has over the citizens, the freer we are. It is simply to turn things upside down. When I read the suggestion that you should be able to track Danes using GPS or other devices without a warrant, I thought: What will be next? So, when we've been in the hospital, should we be able to get a little chip into our arm so you can keep up with what we're doing? Then there will probably be a Social Democrat saying: No, no, that will never happen. However, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder whether the Social Democrats and the Social Democratic Government, which could have been sworn ten or fifteen years ago, are not proposing things today by the Social Democrats and the Social Democrats. I think so. This applies to proposals which we have dealt with in the past that law-abiding citizens should not be able to stay in areas because there were criminals or people who caused unrest; who had ravaged the area for a period of time, i.e. the so-called'residence zones', which were no-go zones. This applies to the proposal here on gps-tracking. This applies to the proposal, which we dealt with two weeks ago, where we had a relatively bold Minister of Justice. It was then the former Minister of Justice who apparently did not care that the Social Democracy and the Government were the only ones in the Danish Parliament who thought it was an excellent idea to make such far-reaching restrictions on citizens' freedom as they did with that proposal. Now we have a proposal again. And I really don't think the worst part of this is that it's a lot of proposals in one. As I had done in my rapporteur's speech, you could sit down and say that this is what we are for, and this is what we are against, blah blah blah blah blah and split it up or just vote against it all because you could not get it split up. In principle, you could do that. I think the worst thing is that it tends to be a movement in our society, where it is always about taking power from the citizens and putting it with the state. I am worried, and it is not because, as such, I have mistrust of the state; it really is not. I have confidence in our police, in our intelligence services and so on, but I also have the fundamental principle that law-abiding citizens must be able to live in peace and freedom and that there must be proportions in things and there is no such thing here. There are two examples I would like to highlight. In fact, it is three, but I would like to highlight two of the worst. This applies to the proposal, which has been highlighted earlier, that the police should be able to monitor citizens by gps similar devices without a court order. This is crazy. I've just been listening to a lawyer down here in the corner, which I hope I'm gonna have to say about the fact that it doesn't take a very long time to get a warrant, so I guess it's gonna be possible for the police in these cases too. And that is why I am also thinking, when we talk about blocking websites, about it, if it is a matter of hours to get a warrant, and since we know how long these cases can be on the table of the police before anything happens at all, is it reasonable that the case can be many hours, many days, many weeks, many months on the police table, but when the police are going to get started, is it the freedom of the citizens that is being compromised to be more effective, to save a few hours? I don't think it is. That is why we would also like a good explanation as to why we should not have a warrant before we block companies' websites. I totally understand that these websites are junk. We need to get rid of those who are scamming and, above all, frauds with other people's money or information. There's really a lot of people getting caught up in this, and it's really uncomfortable to get rid of your information. You can hang on to it for many, many years. So we're gonna have a fight with it, but I think you can afford to ask what you expect it to do, that you don't have a warrant before you block websites. Finally, there is the proposal on access for the mass media to public access to indictments and requests for a hearing. We have discussed this in this Chamber earlier today, and it may be that I have misunderstood it, but I suppose that since it appears here and appears as an amendment, that is to say that it is clear that it will be required that requests for access to a larger number of indictments and requests for a hearing should be reasonably justified, it also allows the authorities to say that something is not reasonably justified. And we in New Citizens are concerned that the Danes will have better access to what is going on, better opportunity to keep control of what is going on with the authorities, the government and elsewhere. That is also why we want to revise the Public Access Act, but that is another matter, and we will have to discuss that later today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506141601	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506141608	Thank you. If I look a little happy, it's not because of the bill it's simply because I've just looked out at the Palace Square, where I could see that the police were dragging away some of these climate activists who are making themselves up on the ground and trying to bother people in their everyday lives. I couldn't help but get a little uplifted by that. In relation to the bill, I would say that the government often talks about the need for de-bureaucratisation in Denmark, and so far the government has just continued to impose more rules, more laws, more bans, more injunctions and not least more taxes, while the de-bureaucratisation, which is for the benefit of the citizens, has waited for it. But now we can see what the government means by debureaucratisation. It is simply citizens' legal certainty that can be debureaucraticized away, so that the police no longer have to wait very long for a court order to block websites, so that the police do not need a court order if they want to monitor the citizens' GPS movement, so that the authorities can more deny the media's request for access to documents, and so that citizens can be searched more freely without any particular suspicion. It is marvellous if that is the government's bid for a debureaucratisation. If you put logic at the forefront, you could also debureaucratize the basic law. There are a lot of freedoms there, there is fatigue and bureaucratic. It is not just an indifferent thing that we have the principle of having a court order in our community of law before we can monitor citizens or otherwise restrict their freedom. It is the citizens' protection against abuse of power, because in Western countries too, police sometimes go too far and there is a warrant against it, and it is also a safeguard against human error, and we all make human mistakes, and sometimes they do so in the police. There may be situations where they have thought that there was a particular reason to monitor people, and then it turns out they were wrong. There it is the citizens' protection against this type of ordinary human error that one has the principle that a court order or a court order is required when there is to be a restriction on someone's freedom. So, of course, we have to hold on to that. I simply do not buy the argument that it is too difficult and time-consuming for the police to obtain a warrant. I know it's something that takes a few hours if it's urgent. This is not something that takes several days or several weeks or several months. After all, it is only when citizens need something from the public that it takes several weeks or several months. Fortunately, when the police need a court order or a court order, things are going pretty fast. So that is not an argument for removing the legal certainty of citizens. On the contrary, unfortunately, I see this as another blow on the part of the government against our community of law and some good, sound legal principles, and I am delighted that we are close to being a united Parliament that says no to some of the parts in the case of LA. So thank you to my good colleagues. You are at least on today's occasion... your task adult.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506141900	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I do not see any more rapporteurs wishing to speak on behalf of the parties, and I can give the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506141922	Thank you to the rapporteurs of the parliamentary parties for the debate on L 182. It is a legislative proposal that deals with timely and effective processing, because it is a fundamental prerequisite for a society governed by the rule of law. It is also essential in a community governed by the rule of law that our authorities spend their time on what is right and that justice can be done quickly. That is why I think it is also the task of the legislator and the executive to ensure that the authorities we have and the courts are able to use the time properly so that the right decisions are taken effectively. Unfortunately, we are not there today when we can be satisfied with the times of proceedings in what we normally call the criminal proceedings chain, because many victims have to wait too long to settle their case, and I do not think that is fair. Therefore, it will be a focus for me, just as it was for the former Minister of Justice, to reduce the length of proceedings in criminal proceedings. It is also a question of legal certainty. The cases are not getting any better from lying for a long time, the witnesses can remember no more from the fact that there is more time going on, and with this bill we are coming a small step in the right direction towards the fact that it takes less time to achieve justice than it does today. The draft law contains a large number of proposals, which have also been discussed by the rapporteurs. These are proposals, each of which is a minor one, which should contribute to the most appropriate use of the resources of the police, prosecutors, courts, criminal services and youth crime boards. That is the common denominator. But the small handles also have a justification, because it is a long and tough move to reduce the processing time, and we are already in the process of examining whether there could be more initiatives. The legal system is a complex one, and there are many important concerns that are involved. Therefore, in order to achieve our goal, it is crucial that all links in the chain fall under the carpet, and in this bill it is especially the police's investigative capabilities that are in focus, for example. to provide the police with a good toolbox so that we can quickly and effectively take action against criminals. I will not go into detail on all the elements of the bill here, but just mention some of them. With regard to the blocking of websites, the draft law includes: aim to expand police capabilities to block the websites. Enlargement must, for example, take place within the framework of the Treaty on European Union. makes it possible to block websites where IT criminals try to defraud citizens of information about, for example, MitID or means of payment, which unfortunately many citizens are victims of. As part of the management of the covid-19, temporary access was introduced to block websites from which there was reason to believe that certain criminal offences were committed which were based on or related to the covid-19 epidemic in Denmark. The scheme proved to be an effective tool for the police in the fight against covid-19-related cybercrime, and that is the good experience we are proposing to build on. There will have to be a balance of proportionality in the specific cases, but if a website is set up and is used solely for the purpose of committing, for example, the following: Fraud, with this proposal as a starting point, could block the website. In addition, the bill contains a proposal to allow the police to register the whereabouts of a suspect or other person using a GPS or other similar device without a court order. The initiative means that in future the police will not need a court order to mount a GPS on a car, for example. hold on a public road or in a public parking lot. During the public hearing, the initiative received several critical consultation responses along the way, which have been read and which the government has dealt with. Therefore, since the public hearing, the essential change has been made that the requirement for a court order is maintained in cases where the location or installation of a GPS requires intrusion into private property or interference with private property, for example. by the police getting access to a car. This brings us back to a large extent to the legal position that was in force before 2018. I think that this proposal represents a sensible priority for the time of the police, for the time of the prosecution, for the time of the courts and for their resources. The initiative will mean that the authorities can spend more time on other tasks. Let me move on to those parts of the bill that concern the amendment of the juvenile delinquency law. That part of the bill has among other things: The aim is to follow up on three of the six partial evaluations of the fight against juvenile delinquency decided upon in connection with the establishment of the Youth Crime Board. When children and young people commit crime early in their lives, it may be the start of a criminal career that can end in widespread and serious crime. That is why it is important for early action to be taken against juvenile delinquency. There must be a noticeable reaction so that the child or young person understands that all actions have consequences. That is why I am also pleased that the evaluations point to the success of having children and young people before they end up in a criminal career. However, the evaluations also point to some challenges, e.g.: immediate reactions are only used to a limited extent. I do not think this is satisfactory, and the proposal therefore contains initiatives aimed at increasing the use of immediate responses to children and young people, as was also the political intention when we discussed that bill at the time. The partial evaluations also show that it is not appropriate for criminal prevention to deal with cases relating to children and young people with severe mental impairment. That is why we propose that this group should in future be exempted from the jury process. In addition, the evaluations express a desire for the participation of child experts in several meetings. We have also listened to this, which is why it is proposed to extend the right to use child experts in matters relating to children and young people aged 15 to 17. Finally, the evaluations point to a number of points where the board process can be streamlined and made more flexible. The draft law therefore also contains such initiatives. Finally, after the public consultation, a less clarifying element of a more technical nature has been introduced, which is about the European Public Prosecutor's Office. With these comments, I would once again like to thank the rapporteurs for their various contributions. I look forward to further treatment here in the Parliamentary Chamber. I can hear that there are several elements that need to be discussed. That is why, of course, I am available both today and afterwards if there is a wish to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506142603	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister. First, it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506142609	Thank you. I take note of the Minister's mention here of the fact that long procedural times are not in line with the sense of law and legal certainty, and I agree with that. But if you use it as an argument for not obtaining a warrant in order to put a GPS on a car, then you also owe it to you to answer how much time you save. I haven't heard the answer to that. I tried to ask the Socialist rapporteur about resources. That can be answered both in kroner and ear and in time, but now the Minister is talking a lot about time. So how much time is it really expected to be able to catch up on average if you bypass a court order?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506142658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506142659	There is no final calculation of it, and the truth is that this rule has in fact only been in force for a very short time. Until 2018, all citizens could walk around and gps-track each other. I could put a GPS tracker on your bike completely legal. Fortunately, the Folketing made the very sensible decision back in 2018 that it should not be legal. The only people who can gps-track people are the police. Then it was decided that if the police did, they should have a court order. In fact, it was contrary to what the Criminal Code Council recommended. The Criminal Code Council then said in their report that they did not think the police should obtain a court order, but there the Folketing said so: we still think they should. Now it has worked for a 3-4 year, and our assessment is that it is resource-intensive. There is no reason why neither the police nor the prosecution nor the courts spend time on it. We need to keep in mind that the police can follow people without a court order. The police can take pictures of people on public roads without a court order. It's no different than that. And now they can also, if this bill is passed, track people with GPS. Of course, there must be a balance of proportionality. This is not something to be done out of the blue, but it is also a question of: do we trust that the police are able to make those balances? I think they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506142810	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506142811	I also have a lot of faith in the police. Is it not true that if it is so urgent to gps-track a suspect, you can get that warrant within 24 hours, i.e. that it does not prevent the police in their work? That's why I'm going back to this time argument that I just don't understand. Somehow I end up in a place where, in the words of the Socialist rapporteur, I am conspiratorial. But this has to be about being happy with surveillance. That's what I'm left with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506142858	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506142859	First of all, I would say: yes, the police can quite quickly obtain a warrant afterwards if they have had to gps-track someone quickly without being able to obtain a warrant in advance. This proposal is not, of course, crucial to whether or not we get shorter processing times. It is a small contribution by many. These are many streams small in an attempt to make sure that when people e.g. If we have been subjected to violence, we can do justice more quickly, because it will not be better to lie down for a long time. I'm not walking around in love with surveillance, but this is not a huge attack on the rule of law. It has been case-law until 2018, and it is no different from what the Criminal Law Council then recommended the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506142944	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506142946	You know, removing court orders, court orders like this, it's actually an attack on the rule of law. I believe it is, and frankly I am both frightened and disappointed that the Minister does not believe that this is an attack on the rule of law. I agree, of course, that long procedural times are bad for the sense of justice, but what is bad for the sense of justice is if you cannot trust that you are not monitored without action being taken. That is why it is of course problematic and I still think we need an answer as to what the justification for this is. Where does the proposal come from? The Socialist rapporteur was unable to respond. Maybe the minister can.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143033	All I am appealing to is that this is not going to be too fundamental. Well, you can easily be monitored today without there being a court order. If the police see a car on Romanian records and think that that one we're going to follow, then they shouldn't ask the judge for permission. So they're just shadowing people, and if they want to take a photograph of people and get something documented, then they just do it. Nor do they need a court order for that if it happens on a public road, and one can then discuss whether putting a GPS block under a car should demand a court order or not. I just think it's pretty violent to make it appear as if it's a huge attack on the rule of law. It's no different than it was until 2018. It is no different than the Criminal Justice Council recommended, and it is not much, but it is something that will matter to both the police, the prosecution and the judge's time spent, and this is about coming to justice quickly, and it is taking too long now, and in this bill there are many different initiatives that need to bring us forward more quickly to justice. I can count to 90, but I think we are going a little too easily over that it is just a huge attack on the rule of law. I think we have an obligation in here to consider with ourselves whether it is really essential that we oppose what the Criminal Court recommended. Is it really that crucial? Or could we say that okay, it's a new technology, the Folketing needs to figure out how the legislation finds the balances here? And that's all I'm appealing to is a rather calm debate about it, and that it's not as if we're rinsing the basic law into the crapper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143155	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143156	At least on my own behalf, I would like to explain why Enhedslisten is responding as Enhedslisten does. That's because it's not the first time we've been standing in this hall and the government is proposing to remove a warrant for something. If every time we just said that this is not an attack on the rule of law and that it is just quite quiet and that we have to see that, then we would suddenly be standing in a place where we no longer have the rule of law we have today, and that is why we have to react in principle every single time. And it may be annoying for the government, but that is the position we have in the Enhedslisten. Then I'd like to suggest something. If it is a question of testing new technology, why has a sunset clause not been included in the proposal, so we are sure that there will be an evaluation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143236	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143236-2	Let me start by saying that this is my first day in the Parliamentary Chamber as Minister of Justice, and some of the rapporteurs have, of course, brought with me many legislative proposals, including the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and others I have done so for the first time, which is why I am listening very carefully to what is being said, and can of course sense that there is a distrust of the government's intentions in this area. I would therefore very much like to make it clear that I and the government are huge supporters of the rule of law with very high standards and that I think it is only healthy that we have good discussions about this and a sunset clause might be a way to land it here. I am completely open to discussing this. I just do not believe that this concrete element is a dagger in the back of the rule of law. I do not think so. Well, as I said before, it's no different than that we go back to the legal state that was in 2018. It is a new technology and let us find out how the balances are to be found. I'm just appealing that we don't consider this to be so much different from some of the other options the police have in the toolbox.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143337	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143340	I could have continued a bit along the same lines, but I am quite sure that there will be more opportunities to talk about this proposal. I would really like to ask a question about the Youth Crime Board. It is because the Danish Social Advisor Association proposes that we not only provide for the possibility to exempt children with severe physical or psychological problems, it must be, problems for the Youth Crime Board. They actually point out that all children must have the opportunity to be exempted if a specific and individual assessment suggests that it makes sense to exempt the child. Could the Minister be prepared to look at that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143422	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143423	I think I will start by saying that I also remember what the Danish Social Advisor Association meant when we introduced the Youth Crime Boards and that I am pleased that, contrary to the wishes of the Social Advisor Association at the time, we actually adopted it. I also believe that what we have actually achieved is the best thing for children and young people. I therefore believe that there are too few sanctions and that this is not good for the children. And then I think that there is a group which has been included but which should not be included anymore. With this bill, we propose that they should not be included. I do not dare to answer this question, but I would very much like to see the answer given in writing before the committee's reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143507	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143508	I am grateful for this, because I do believe that there can easily be children with easier job reductions who can benefit from being exempted from the Youth Crime Board. There may also be other children, so you are not very old when you are 10 years old, and if we add that you can be a little later developed and not very mature, then I just find it very, very difficult to see what it is you get extra from being put down in a process where there are a lot of adults sitting for a tabled one and asking some questions that you don't understand at all. I do not dispute that it may be good to have a juvenile crime board which determines what social action should be. I just want to know if the minister thinks the kids are gonna get more out of it, so we're gonna put the kids down in front of these growers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143554	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143554-2	I would like to start by saying that I believe that these children have been in front of a few adults who have asked them questions about their lives and that I basically believe that we are doing these children a favour by introducing the juvenile delinquency boards, the vast majority of children. And I also listened very carefully to what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, because it is true that significantly fewer sanctions have been imposed than we had thought. That's only about 2%. of the cases that have gone through, which have ended with sanctions. It tells us something about the fact that at the other end there may have been not quite the same willingness to implement what was at least the intention of the Folketing when we adopted it. Therefore, I could also be a little sceptical by putting in a further possibility that municipalities could exempt people from coming to the Youth Crime Board at all. I think it is quite important that we help the children who are in that situation before things go wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143648	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143649	Thank you. I would actually like to agree with the Minister that it is not the case that our rule of law is gone if this bill is implemented. However, I would actually say that it must be beyond doubt that it is, at least, to file on the legal certainty of the citizens, that is to weaken the rule of law. After all, it is a proposal that has been criticised both by law professor Frederik Waage and professor of criminal law Jørn Vestergaard of the University of Copenhagen, who points out that this is an interference in the privacy of citizens and that there must be very good reasons for it if we are to remove this principle that there should be a warrant. There was also a case in Germany about Uzun, where a GPS tracking of a car had been carried out, and the European Court of Human Rights said it was an interference in privacy. When there was a case at home in Denmark about a resident in a place of residence where there was a GPS surveillance of the resident, the Ombudsman stated that it was therefore also an invasion of privacy. So would the Minister not just acknowledge that what is being proposed is, of course, a weakening of the rule of law? Well, you might think it's a good idea anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143803	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143804	No, I would not call it a weakening of the courtroom. I think what we should consider with ourselves is how to create the most just system. And it's not fair that cases are dragging on. It's not fair. The cases are getting worse, the witnesses are forgetting more, and if it is a civil case, it takes a long time, for example. Two companies on a construction site will decide who should bear the bill. The economy is standing still while we wait. This is not good for Danish society. That is why I think we have a responsibility to ensure that the process is quick and effective with high legal standards. What we are discussing here is whether in that balance it was the right cut we got made in 2018 when we didn't do as the Criminal Code Council recommended us, namely to give the police the opportunity without a court order, or whether it wasn't the right one. It's perfectly legitimate to mean both things. I would just like to appeal to the House not to panic completely about the fact that we are discussing and implementing what the government is proposing and which is no different from what the Criminal Code Council recommended a few years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143907	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143908	However, the Minister makes it sound as if there are delays of several weeks and months in using a court order to carry out GPS surveillance. But you can usually get it within 24 hours. I know it's very, very rare that this doesn't happen because if the police say they need a quick warrant, they'll get it. So the alleged gain is that you might be able to monitor and close some cases a few hours faster. The loss is, of course, that the citizens no longer have this protection against unfair monitoring of their movements and GPS locations. How can the Minister think that the gain outweighs the disadvantages?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506143944-2	Well, I think we're getting closer now. I agree with one part of the weight. Well, that's the thing about there not having to be a court order, and it's in one weight bowl. What is in the second bowl is not how soon it takes to get a court order, because the rapporteur is quite right in saying that it is going quickly. It is more that the police and the prosecution and the courts spend time on that not insignificant time. The question is, what do they need to spend that time on? While they're working for this, they don't spend their time on anything else. And that is the balance we have to make with each other. And there I just think that the fact that we are getting to a decision rather quickly is important. With the small steps we can take along the way, we must try to see if we cannot cut short the time in the criminal proceedings chain.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144024	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144026	Thank you. Can the Minister quantify how much time is released if the bill is adopted as it stands here? The Minister says that it is not because it will not be possible to get a court order very quickly and thus maintain the legal certainty of citizens from being monitored and unnecessary, so it is not because it is not possible to do so in time, but it is the time that the authorities have to spend doing that work. So can the Minister quantify what would be saved by annual work, what will be saved by tax dollars, and go back to the Danes, or what will one spend that money or that time on? I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144115	It is a little the same as Mrs Samira Nawa asked about earlier. No precise qualification has been made in this way. The aim is, of course, to make judgments fall a little faster, so that we get justice, that is, decisions taken a little faster. It's just a small contribution. It's just a lot of cymbals. Another proposal that I can hear has also been discussed is that of access to the indictment. Of course, I listened a little, and I have tried to go through my papers a little, and what I have been told by the Attorney General is that in practice there are examples of the same applicant applying on a weekly basis for access to a very large number of indictments based on having sat and looked into the public legal lists. And then they just ask all the police circles about it, and it's huge amounts of resources we spend on it. This has absolutely nothing to do with reducing the working conditions of the media, but if someone is sitting in a cottage somewhere and just sending out applications for access to documents, we have expensively paid people in our legal system who are spending time on it. That is why I am just appealing to us not to make sure that these people spend their time on what is right. Then I would like to say from the platform of the Danish Parliament that this should not mean less room for manoeuvre for Danish media, because they must have exactly the same access as they have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144246	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144248	You can easily get a court order in a relatively short time, and when it is not the case that fewer criminals will be caught, and if you cannot quantify it in hours, years or economies, then it seems as if it is a rather violent place to compromise on citizens' legal certainty and freedom. The idea that when you get on the ferry from one port to another, you can put a GPS under your car and then just be watched, surely not many people like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144327	Whether it's violent or not, it's what we have to find out with each other here in the Folketing. I myself think that if the police see a car on Romanian plates running across the border and they think that that car is coming twice a week, and if it looks like they're not wearing normal work clothes, then they'll probably try to figure out where they're going, and then you can tail them today, because they can just go after them, but it just takes a lot of resources. The alternative could be to say: Now we put a block under the car, and then we track them GPS-wise, and then we see what their patterns of movement are. It's effective police work. What you can then discuss is whether there should be a court order when you do something like that, or whether the police should be able to do it, just as they can shadow people commonly. It's about how we use new technology. I do not think it is violent, but of course I am listening to what is being said.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144416	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister for Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144429	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144454	Thank you. The draft law we are considering is a proposal aimed at exempting Scandinavian Star Task Force from the rules of the Public Procurement Act as regards the material contained in the task force's study. This exemption from, for example, the rules on access to documents is not necessarily something that is received equally positively from all parties in the Folketing, but there are now some special circumstances in this case. We agreed last year to launch an independent study on the ownership, ownership and insurance of the Scandinavian Star, and we agreed to set up an independent task force to carry out that study. The work of the Task Force is, as a starting point, covered by the rules on access to documents, but the task force has made the Danish Parliament's follow-up group for the Scandinavian Star study aware that the publication of its material could be problematic in terms of confidentiality and any subsequent investigation. That is a concern we must listen to, and that is why a broad majority in the Parliament's follow-up group has also called on the Minister for Justice to put forward a legislative proposal to take it into account. The Minister for Justice has done so with this bill, which ensures that there is no right of access to material or personal data that is part of the task force's investigation. Of course, we can support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144615	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144619	Thank you. I can refer to my colleague's remarks just now and say that the Left can also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144631	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the SF's rapporteur. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144645	The other day the Committee on Legal Affairs visited the Court at Frederiksberg, and Mr. Peter Skaarup and I had a little paper sign on a door that said "Taskforce," Scandinavian Star. And driven by our curiosity, we were just about to greet the task force that Mr. Peter Skaarup, sir. Søren Søndergaard and me to get set up and finally to conduct the in-depth investigation into what happened in Denmark's biggest assassination fire, which cost 159 people their lives. It turned out that there had never been an investigation into the ownership and insurance situation, even though the police had said so over all the years, and that is what is now being studied in this task force, because the motive for insurance fraud has been mentioned a great many times. That is why it is a little preposterous that I, who are actually fighting for a less closed public law, are now standing here and contradicting myself, can be argued for because this is where we shut down the public a little, but it is necessary. First of all, it is the task force that is asking for it, but what is the challenge for the task force is that they say that it can harm the investigation if there is access to the public about the material that is regularly made available to them. They also collect a very large amount of material, so it is actually not possible for them, at the time when a request for access to documents is submitted, to gain clarity as to whether the material is to be used in a later investigation and whether extradition can actually hinder later investigative progress. After all, we could not imagine that there was a full public awareness of it in an investigation, because that is where we need to keep our cards close to the body, and that is what they need here. And then there is the last element, which is precisely about obtaining material in other countries, for example. in the United States, and it's not an investigation. This isn't an investigation or a commission, so that's why the task force, which is in between, suddenly has this openness. But one cannot imagine, I think, that the United States is supplying any material which should even be done on a voluntary basis, after which there will be full access to it here in Denmark. So we support in the SF that we have this opportunity to close the public about the process and the investigation so that we can have it in peace and quiet. And, of course, we look forward to a report once, and we look forward to reading what comes out of it. That part will be public once we have a result from the task force. And with those words, I can back it up, and it really understands that all other parties do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506144954	Thank you. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145002	Thank you very much. The bill here calls for the Scandinavian Star Task Force not to be subject to public access rules. We think it is an important piece of work that the task force is set up to do. In the Radical Left, we ourselves have helped to set up the task force. However, when it comes to excluding a task force from the rules of public access to documents, we are therefore in doubt. Because I do not think anyone is surprised here that we in the Radical Left are fighting for more openness and for a more open public law. This does not mean that we do not listen to it when a task force arrives and asks for it to be shut down here, but we in the Radical Left are in doubt as to whether there are sufficient reasons for extending the general rules of exception in the public law, which is quite extensive. We have doubts as to whether the fact that it cannot be ruled out that the Public Service Act would impose a higher level of publicity than intended is sufficient, given that there is a possibility of exempting a number of information from the public. So if we in the Radical Left are to do our job, it is quite possible that we end up in a yellow voice in this Chamber because we are simply not convinced that there are sufficient serious reasons why the general exemption rules are not sufficient and that they need to be extended in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145202	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145205	I guess I just took my mouth off when I said that all the parties immediately supported. I had not been aware that the Radicals were not part of it. I understand the approach of the Radicals to it, because I have it somewhere in the same way. But when I think of this as an investigation and think about it, does it make sense that there is access to an investigation? Does the Radical Left think so?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145234-2	Well, I am glad that Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt and the SF share the view. In other words, we are usually on the same side when it comes to the desire for more openness and openness. No, it is clear that an investigation cannot simply be open, but there are also fairly wide exceptions in the Public Service Act, and we are not convinced in the Radical Left that the derogations are not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145307	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145308	The problem is that the task force falls somewhere in between because it is neither a commission nor the police investigating. That is why the problem arises. A lot of the material you need to clarify this situation comes, for example. from the United States, where the ship seems to have been registered, if I remember correctly. But what will the rapporteur say if it means that we cannot get any material from the United States because, for example, they do not want public access to the material they submit, and that would damage the investigation and thus the opportunity to find out what really happened that day?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145352	The SF rapporteur is right, of course, that the construction of a task force makes it subject to the rules of the Public Access Act. And there you could have chosen a different structure... a commission, a committee of inquiry that we have seen. Of course, it would have meant that we should not stand here and legalize shutting down. But again: it is not clear that the Radical Left is voting red precisely because we have that question of doubt, but I think we simply end up voting yellow in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145436	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145439	Thank you. I actually got a little curious. What exactly are some of the rules of the Public Service Act that make this already excluded?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145447-2	Well, I do not have the specific paragraphs, but as I am informed, there are some rather broad exceptions in the Public Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145501	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145502	But if that is what makes the Radical Left not going to vote for this bill, then I would strongly urge the party to engage in a dialogue with the Ministry of Justice. Because it is quite ridiculous if we are dealing with a proposal here on rules that already exist. So if Mrs Samira Nawa thinks that those rules already exist, then I think we should take a round of it in committee so that the Radical Left can come forward with it and we do not spend each other's time on such unnecessary legal treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145533	I think that is a very good idea and also something we intend to do in committee. I have been in dialogue with the task force and with what is said, the follow-up group, the members of the individual parties, and in that dialogue, there has certainly not been any clarity in me and in the Radical Left that this should be necessary and that it is not covered by the derogations. So let us finally dig into it in connection with the committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145605	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Samira Nawa. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145613	Thank you. Right on this bill, I'm actually here instead of sir. Søren Søndergaard, who has been working to get to the bottom of the case of the assassination fire at Scandinavian Star. That is why I know he is sorry that he cannot be here for the first reading of this bill today. But I have promised to say that, despite the concerns we normally have regarding the public, the Enhedslisten strongly supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145646	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. Then it is Mrs Britt Baker of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145656	Thank you. I can say on behalf of the Conservative People's Party that we also support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145703	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145717	Thank you. Unfortunately, a real investigation in relation to the Scandinavian Star tragedy is still underway here more than 30 years after the fire. This bill limits the fact that the task force is subject to the normal rules of the Public Access Act, which we can live with in this particular case. Normally, we are certainly not in favour of the current public law, but in this case we can support the proposal. For the basics here about Scandinavian Star is to put a proper end to this unfortunately far too long case. There are a great many relatives who need to put a stop and move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145759	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then the New Citizens' rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506145812	New citizens are great advocates of more openness in the administration. That is also why, on several occasions, we have tabled resolutions on amendments to the public law, which we sometimes like to call the blackout law. In this particular case, however, if we consider it right to exclude the investigation, that is to say the task force, from the law on public disclosure in the administration, it is due to the consideration of the investigation and to the subsequent investigation which might come. This is due to the concern for those who potentially will not speak if they run the risk of their opinions being publicised. This is due to the concern for the other countries, which might not be able to comment if they know that this can be publicised before the case is investigated. And, of course, this is due above all to the concern for the relatives of the victims, who have been waiting for too many years to clarify this matter, to have it investigated thoroughly and also to have responsibility placed on them. If we insist today that this should go out to the public, we run the risk that the task force that has been set up will be a bit shoddy, to put it mildly. I really think we owe it to the relatives of the survivors of the assassination fire to do all we can to ensure that the task force is so good that it can provide the basis for a proper investigation and that those responsible in this terrible assassination fire can get their punishment so that the survivors can move on. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506150002	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then we are through the rapporteurs who are present in the Chamber, and that is why we have reached the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506150014	Let me start by thanking the rapporteurs for the positive contributions we have heard about the draft law. It is, of course, a proposal made at the request of virtually all parties in the Folketing, and I must therefore keep it fairly brief. In May of last year, the Government and Parliament's parties agreed to launch an independent study of the owners, owners and insurance conditions in relation to the Scandinavian Star. It was also agreed to set up an independent task force to conduct the investigation. It is provided in the terms of reference of the task force that it will be able to obtain information from Danish and foreign authorities in connection with its work. It is also provided that the task force will be able to obtain information on a voluntary basis from relatives or support associations, for example through interviews. At the end of the investigation, the task force shall publish a statement and shall include an assessment of whether there are grounds for initiating further police investigations in the case of the fire on the Scandinavian Star. The task force has been set up as a managing authority and therefore the starting point is that it is covered by the rules on access to documents. However, the Task Force has brought to the attention of the Parliament's follow-up group for the Scandinavian Star study some concerns about access to the material contained in the study. More specifically, the task force is concerned that, among other things: publication of the material could hinder the possible subsequent police investigation. The Task Force has also pointed out the need to maintain confidentiality about the information provided during interviews or coming from foreign authorities. The bill we are debating today follows on from a call from the broad majority of the Parliament's follow-up group consisting of Social Democracy, the Left, the SF, the Radicals, Enhedslisten, Conservatives, DF, New Civil, Liberal Alliance and Christian Democrats. This then leads me to what the bill is about, namely that there will be no right of access to material or personal data that is part of the task force's investigation. I look forward to the further examination of the bill here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506150221	Thank you. There are no brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506150236	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506150302	Thank you. Victims of crime must have the legal protection and meet with the support and respect they are entitled to. In the first place, it is about taking care of the victim and getting him as well as possible through a possible trial, but it will also be relevant to take into account how the victim is to be made financially as a result of the crime. One thing is to get a sum of money that you can move forward with; another is that you must not overwhelm the importance of being recognized as a victim, also financially. It is therefore important for a victim to obtain a financial compensation which, together with a possible sentence against the perpetrator, can mean a kind of end to a violent experience. On the other hand, if the payment of compensation is delayed or felt unfair, it may delay the feeling of clarification. The bill we are discussing here today proposes to remove the ceiling for tort reimbursement for digital sexual violations. We have received a ruling from the Supreme Court in the so-called Umbrella case. In that case, the Supreme Court set a ceiling for reimbursement, even though there were actually very many violations over a very long period of time. That ceiling will be removed with this proposal so that the perpetrator will not be able to pay compensation in future just because he is so lucky that the maximum amount has been reached. And then a starting point is set for the level of tort allowance for digital sexual violations of 5,000 to 30,000 kroner. The proposal also contains amendments designed to extend the scope of compensation for infringements to include serious violations of someone else's peace or honour. Finally, the proposal provides for a simplification of the calculation of interest rates in victim compensation cases. The date of interest shall be determined today on the basis of a concrete and discretionary assessment. The new rules provide for an objective and unambiguous date for the interest to be paid in cases of victim compensation. This should make the handling of cases more predictable and transparent and ultimately provide a more flexible procedure in this area. As far as I understand, the proposed time of interest will mean that in future a victim will have less interest on his compensation or compensation; but in order to compensate for this, it is also proposed that a number of amounts of compensation and compensation be secured while proceedings are under way. This proposal therefore contains a number of good proposals for changes which must make victims better when it comes to the award of compensation and compensation and, of course, we can support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506150530	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506150545	Thank you. The proposal has its origins in the so-called Umbrella case, where a sex video was shared and where the victim in the case was, of course, to be compensated for it. The problem was that the video was shared by really, very many people I don't remember the number specifically, but I don't think it was about 250 or something like that. The victim should then have, let's say 5,000 or 10,000 kroner. Indemnification. And it is clear that if you multiplied the amounts and said: 250 court cases times 5,000 kroner. In compensation, the victim would get 2.5 million. kr. That said the Supreme Court was quite unproportional; it was thought that the ceiling had already been reached at DKK 267,000, or whatever it was that was reached, and then they said stop. The perpetrators who then got their cases later were acquitted; they did not have to pay for anything for which they were acquitted, so they did not have to pay anything in compensation. This is, of course, an incredibly crazy legal situation, and that is why it is good that the government should do something about it, and what I am saying is absolutely no criticism of the government, because this is a Gordian knot. The government has tried to solve the problem by saying that there should be no ceiling. In my calculation example, the woman in question must be compensated for 250 violations of 10,000 kroner, so he must have 2.5 million. kr. And yes, 2.5 million. kr. is something of a sum, especially considering that a rape brings in DKK 100,000. Indemnification to the victim. Well, all I can say is that if we do this, we're about to make a mess here in the Folketing. I must warn you, because you are going to go through various replacement posts, and this is not going to be any better because the amount that has to be settled if a perpetrator is not able to settle it, then it will in all likelihood be something that can be taken from the Public Compensation Board so that the state will pay. Well, it's completely incalculable problems that are in this. The 2.5 million. kr. I mean, in my calculation example, it's totally out of proportion. I think that the women in question should be fairly compensated for the damage that has been done to her, but it is of course not right that she should have 25 times as much as a woman who has been raped; so there is something completely wrong with it. However, as I said before, it is not a criticism of the government, because it is difficult to find the right proposal. And yet I'd venture to say the fur. It could well be imagined that once the victim's compensation had reached a reasonable level, what it would then be in the specific cases together, the compensation in the other proceedings might have to be paid into a victim's fund. Then we made sure that the perpetrators were paid, and we made sure that the woman was compensated, well to see a compensation for the damage she has suffered, a compensation that is also proportional to other levels of compensation. This is a proposal which I think we should look at in committee. In any case, I must express my reservations about implementing the proposal as it stands. This will cause enormous problems for the Folketing in many, many other situations. The second major part of the proposal has its origins in the Se and Hør case, where a politician had his credit card transactions monitored, and he thought so, and I understand that he thought that it was a violation of his rights that should mean that the publisher in question had to pay a compensation to him for it. He did not, because the Supreme Court said it might be that he felt bothered, but the work was not suited to influence his sense of self and honour. This is certainly quite right in legal terms, but it has to be said that if we take Mrs Justitia's volume away from our eyes, then I think we can all see that something is wrong about the fact that we cannot get some kind of compensation in relation to what we have been exposed to in that situation. That is why the Left tabled a motion for a resolution, B 56 here at the present sitting, in which my colleague, Mr Gundelach, tabled a motion for a resolution. Jan E. Jørgensen was the rapporteur on the matter. It was agreed that, in these situations, there should be compensation for violations of peace and honour. That part sounds very good, and we can certainly support it. As a final comment on the first part, I think I forgot that all the money in which the allowances can be paid is paid by the state if the victim cannot pay, because they will be covered by the Compensation Board; so there is something wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506151101	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506151118	I mean, this bill is supposed to be one of those things. To correct the situation that arose from the so-called umbrella case, where there was a really, very many sharing of insulting content. As some may recall, the Supreme Court decided that enough compensation had been paid because there were so many perpetrators that, overall, a ceiling had been reached on the amount of compensation to be paid. At least that is what the Supreme Court came up with, and in practice it meant that the last perpetrators were freed; they simply did not pay for it. It goes without saying, it doesn't work. With the proposal here, it will in future be the case that all these digital infringements, which have been committed independently of each other, will have to be assessed independently in determining compensation for torture, in other words independently of time, place and context. We actually think that in SF is pretty good. For us, it is central to recognise the struggle in which the wrongdoers stand and the consequences it has when other people without consent in this way take control of their lives and use the power that suits them, even when it is digital. There are critical remarks from the Danish Association of Judges and the Compensation Board. They are concerned about the proportionality of the regime proposed by the Minister of Justice. However, it is important to note in this connection that the total amount of compensation to be paid may be high, as the circumstances suggest, but that the amount will also cover many independent violations. So there are many different perpetrators, and the fact that the injured person has been the victim of the offence many times should of course be addressed. As far as the level of reimbursement is concerned, the proposal met with criticism. However, we can also see that the Ministry of Justice has subsequently planned to increase the level of tort reimbursement, so that the starting point is now between 5,000 and 30,000 DKK, and that is probably a better level in any case. It is also important to remember that victims of digital violations in nine out of ten cases themselves and almost in each case must report the digital infringement to the police. In other words, the police assist the injured person if, like themselves, the person can bring the material, and that means that the injured person also has to search and find and confront himself with that material over and over again if you want the help of the police. I think that is a very large and incalculable task for many victims. Therefore, it also makes sense that the cases are dealt with individually in relation to compensation for tort. The draft law also brings B56 from the Left into effect, so that victims of particularly serious violations of one's peace and honour will also be able to receive compensation. After all, it was a proposal that we also supported and therefore, of course, do today. With regard to the part of the proposal which concerns compensation from the State to victims of crime, the trade union movement and others also note that the proposal will increase the number of resources involved and extend the duration of proceedings, and this is of course not a very good situation. We agree with the Ministry that good administrative practice dictates that cases should be dealt with within a reasonable period of time, but it is of course a prerequisite that the framework for the report's work is in place and we therefore need clarification, I think, of whether this is the case with this proposal. Then there is something in the hearings that says that the proposal could lead to a deterioration in the financial position of the injured parties, and we would, of course, have liked to have that clarified in committee. Because it should not be the case that you get less in compensation or tort afterwards. Then I would just like to give a warning here at the end, as we are about tort-like and replacement-like proposals, that the SF has also put forward a proposal to grant victims the right to compensation for acts of terrorism committed abroad. Because they haven't today. But overall, we think this is good for the legal position of the victims and we look forward to the further examination of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506151620	There is a brief comment. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506151623	I am just asking for a comment on my fine calculation, because unfortunately I am afraid that we will see several examples of it. If the Supreme Court had not put the lid on the Umbrella case, then it would have been possible, I guess, to have come up to a few million in compensation for the woman in question. I think that the woman should have her compensation, her allowance, no doubt about it. But what does Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt say to the rape victim who received DKK 100,000 to the woman who may get $2 million? kr. For this movie?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506151656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506151657	I can actually see the dilemma and the challenge in it, but I also think that we might have to get used to the idea that a digital assault might be like an act of violence where you get one more punch on your face, and one more punch, and one more punch, and one more punch. To some extent, this would also be done individually when it is done by different people. That is why I think it makes sense to have a higher remuneration for tort. Many of these victims are also extremely weak. If they want to take up their case, it's on their own account as well. You can barely even cover the costs of lawyers with the compensation you get if you really have to go into these cases. I mean, the legal situation is just weak. But that is perhaps another issue that we should look at more. How are we actually going to give the victims of these digital violations some tools to solve their cases in a better way?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506151806	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506151807	Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt does not have to finish it because our thinking is exactly the same in this area, including in terms of compensation and compensation. It is not a question, but perhaps just a final remark from me about this, namely that we are heading out on some strange galley that will cause a lot of problems for this Parliament, I repeat, a rape victim. Whether she's got $100,000 or we've got it set up to $200,000. for a rape, quite fine with me, but then he will still see that whoever correctly got a lot of gook in the head in figuratively sense and got his film published, stands and gets a few million kroner. This is clearly a discrepancy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506151846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506151847	Well, I can see the dilemma. I just think that we need to get used to the idea that digital abuse is actually also an abuse. And the fact that you have had your video shared by really, very many perpetrators also means a violent and comprehensive clean-up. Yeah, maybe you never finish it because somebody downloaded it to the phone and uploaded it again, and it keeps going on and on and on and on. But I can easily see the challenges today. I just don't have a very good solution for this either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506151924	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506151927	Thank you. I have thus got used to the idea that a digital infringement is also an infringement, must also lead to compensation and can be as violent as other violations. However, I would like to ask Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt whether she really believes that there is proportionality in the fact that a victim of rape will be admitted to the region of DKr 80,000-120,000, while a victim of a digital infringement can get up to a few million. Does the rapporteur consider this to be proportionate?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152005	No, as I said before, I think there is a dilemma in that. I just do not have a better solution to it, but it may be that the rapporteur has someone that we might rather discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152015	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152016	Now I've just heard that sir... Preben Bang Henriksen has presented a solution. I cannot stand by and say whether it is the right one, but I think we should at least look at it in committee, and I think we should also look at other solutions in committee. I fully agree with the rapporteur that the compensation is so low that it is hardly worth a trial. We can also take a look at that. This is a separate issue. However, there are some dilemmas associated with this bill, which I hope the rapporteur will take part in the committee's deliberations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152049	We are always ready to delve more into the proposals in committee. I can see the dilemmas in that. I'm just not sure there's an optimal solution. It must certainly be a solution in which the perpetrators contribute to it. There is no point in the fact that some of the perpetrators are ultimately free. This is totally untenable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152109	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152118	Thank you very much. This week's many cases in Parliament have sat down on my vote, so I will try to be as brief as possible, also considering that rapporteurs before me have examined the bill quite thoroughly. In the Radical Left, we consider digital violations to be serious, and it should not be the case that a perpetrator can avoid paying compensation for torture simply because enough others have committed the same violations and a ceiling for tort compensation has been reached. Any sharing of material on the web without consent is a violation in itself. With this bill, victims gain a better legal position. That is why we support the Radical Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152215	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Samira Nawa. And then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152231	Thank you. Unfortunately, digital violations are too widespread and a problem that we in the Danish Parliament have to take much more seriously. Because it is so easy to expose other people to, for example, sharing private offensive images and at the same time enormously difficult to solve in very many cases. Fortunately, something has begun to happen in this area, I would say. We have received an increase in the penalty for sharing illegal content on the Internet, and although punishments, by the way, prevent people from committing digital violations, I firmly believe that this has helped to highlight the seriousness of the crime. And I think that can have a preventive effect, because then you might understand how seriously you violate another human being. When we lifted the sentence back in 2018 in section 264 d of the Criminal Code, it was an area where, in connection with that paragraph, we had mostly talked about violations of peace and honour and not so much about digital violations, which unfortunately are happening more and more as the Internet spread, which is actually a good thing, i.e. that we have the Internet, but we have forgotten to update our penal code. And I really think this bill actually helps to adapt our legal system to the digital reality in which we live. In the police settlement, we also agreed that a special digital patrol should be set up, which includes: can intercept these cases, perhaps even before they happen. And I very much hope that we will be able to prevent these cases. Torture reimbursement is a very small patch on the wound when you have been subjected to a digital violation, but it is still important that we have the tool to give the victims just a little bit of redress. Therefore, it is also important that the level of tort reimbursement is at a level where you also feel that it is taken seriously when you have been subjected to a crime. That is why I am pleased that the amounts have been raised from the original draft of the law until now, when we are dealing with the proposal in this Chamber. Unfortunately, we have seen some terrible examples of digital violations, among others. The Umbrella case, mentioned by several people. A great many cases were brought against the offenders who had shared the material, but at one point the Supreme Court chose to reject the fact that the wrongdoers had to pay compensation not because they were not guilty, not because they had not violated their victim, but because it was believed that the total amount had now become too high. And it may well be that the Court of Justice and the Compensation Board indicate in their hearing answer that it would be quite awful if victims of crime were to receive millions of compensations. But I would just like to say to that: every violation, every division of an image is a serious crime, and just because it is a friend who has done it, or you know who has done it, it is no less serious, on the contrary, it would actually be more serious. However, it does not belong to me, and therefore also to the fact that the Ministry of Justice has indicated that every violation must be judged as an independent crime. Because it's actually a thousand times worse to have your pictures shared a thousand times than it is to have them shared once. But every crime is serious in itself and it is therefore good that we take the problem seriously. Enhedslisten supports this bill. Compared with the revised interest rate calculation rules, it is a little difficult to know what to think about it when the Ministry of Justice says on the one hand that things are getting much better in the way they propose and all the consultation answers say the opposite. So that is exactly the part we look forward to discussing in committee. But from the outset, Enhedslisten is very positive about this bill, and I think it's good at all, we've started talking a lot more about how we get to grips with the sharing of insulting images and digital violations at all. It is also a discussion that we are currently having in the Ministry of Business in relation to the law on how to regulate social media, which, unfortunately, is a tool that is being used to commit these crimes. So from the outset, we are really positive about the draft law and look forward very much to entering into the dialogue that I can sense in the debate that there will be in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152659	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152701	I fully agree with Mrs Rosa Lund that digitally things are getting worse and worse, etc. etc. And yet I think Mrs. Rosa Lund spent a lot of her time telling me how horrible it was to be offended in this way, and I agree with that one hundred percent. But let's talk plainly out of the bag and then go back to my example. What will Mrs Rosa Lund say to the woman who has been raped and who has received DKK 100,000? or something like that, when the neighbor who has been subjected to a digital violation of this nature gets 2.5 million. kr.? Do we not, like, have to talk about everything, so do we also have to talk about the proportions of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152753	I understand perfectly well the comment and the concern of Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen's side, but I would also like to say that sharing sexually offensive images is a sexual abuse and that it is a crime that you cannot turn off or be free from. It is a crime that can be committed over and over again by the same person, and I would then say that, with the new consent law, I hope that the criminal who raped someone will not be able to do it again because he is in prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152827	Thank you. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152831	It was just that we are going to another ball street again: he cannot do it again because he is in prison. But I don't think we're gonna move on. It is true that this is a crime that continues all the time. Mrs Rosa Lund is quite right, but I still find it difficult to explain to the rape victim that it is 20 times as hard to be subjected to such a sex crime with pictures than it is to be raped. I'm gonna have a hard time with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152905	I took note of the fact that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen said earlier in the debate that it was a Gordian knot, and I understand what Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen thinks. And it's kind of the same thing that we're talking about in this conversation, that's how the levels are going to be, and how we're gonna make sure there's proportionality to some degree. In any case, this is the discussion I understand we are looking for, and I would really like to take that discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I remember the former member of parliament, sir. Kristian Hegaard of the Radical Left at one point had a motion for a resolution calling for a fund to be set up so that this way through could distribute these allowances. We are also open to this in the Enhedslisten, but right now it's just this proposal that's on the table. But let us discuss it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152951	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more brief comments and the next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506152959	Thank you. This bill deals with tort reimbursement. Victims of crimes must have financial recognition and compensation, and they must have an end to the case. That is why payment must also be made flexibly and quickly. As previous rapporteurs have mentioned, this is the result of a Supreme Court ruling on restrictions on victims in the Umbrella case. Of course, it is quite untenable for perpetrators to avoid paying compensation for tort. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen has best described the dilemmas associated with this proposal and with the complete abolition of the ceiling. In particular, I have noted the lack of proportionality that may be in relation to other compensations. In the Conservative People's Party, we support a change in current case law and we are very positive about the proposal that the Left has mentioned here. We therefore hope that we will be able to look at any proposals in committee and we look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506153114	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. There are no brief comments, and that is why it is now the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506153129	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Left for first raising some of the content of this bill and then to the government for drafting the bill. Of course, if you share a video of compromising material, you should not be able to speculate about having your case delayed, so that you do not have to pay tort compensation. If you have committed something criminal and you have to pay for it, you must not be able to get out of it. Here we fully agree with the content of the draft law. But we think there is one, but let's assume that you receive 10,000 kr. If 700 people share the same video, the injured person will receive 7 million instead. kr., because each division is a separate violation, while in the current legislation there is a ceiling on how much tort allowance can be granted. We are, of course, still in favour of the part which states that the perpetrator does not have to pay 10,000 kroner in this case. as compensation, even if there are 700 and you try to draw something from it. However, the question is whether there should still be some kind of ceiling for tort reimbursement and whether the subsequent tort subsidies should instead go to something other than the victim. It could be a sacrificial fund for precisely this type of violation or something else sensible. But immediately it is to be able to receive 7 million. kr. for a shared video maybe too much to replace, after all. However, we would very much like to have a further discussion in committee in order to find a workable model. The second part, which is that it will be easier to receive compensation, is of course supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506153312	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506153327	Thank you. It is, of course, worse to share insulting recordings or image material by many than it is if only one person shares it. But there is also the fact that a single person who divides it can reach out to a great many, and then there can be the many, where you don't get very far out. This is crazy complicated, it's crazy, crazy complicated, because a person like me, for example, has 130,000 followers on my facebook profile, and of course it makes a difference whether it's me who shares the material on an open profile with so many followers.I don't do that, but anyway, or whether it's a person sitting at home in the basement, has three friends on Facebook and, by the way, has a closed profile. Of course, it also matters how violently you are convicted when you share this kind of material. But it says something about, I think, how difficult it will be if we maintain a ceiling and then say that those who are judged afterwards, after we have reached this ceiling, must then pay to a victim fund. Because how high should the ceiling be? When do you get to that ceiling? If you have reached the ceiling and a person that I then subsequently share the material, it may well be only one person extra, but it may be potentially 130,000 people who can see it. On the other hand, I must also say that in the proposal now that there is no ceiling at all, we are in danger of being distorted by other forms of crime. We were discussing some of the other, just with the reverse sign, I was going to say, from a different perspective, when we've talked about this with penalty rebates on crimes. Is it reasonable that you can get a sentence of 3 or 4 years for hundreds of crimes, respectively, just because you have not been discovered until you have committed hundreds of crimes, while someone else who has committed only two crimes of roughly the same nature as the crimes the person who has committed the many has committed can get almost the same punishment? That is the way the system is today, because it is not the case that every crime is punished by the same number of years or the same fine, and then you just put them on top of each other. We have a sort of penalty rebate when you commit crimes, and when we discuss it, we have had the same discussion. It is insanely complex, and when I say this, it is just to say that we are standing here, 4-5 weeks before Parliament closes, and we have a legislative proposal that is necessary, which is important, but which is not a whole old case. This is not an old case, because it is something we have had plenty of opportunities to draw up legislation on, or at least put forward legislative proposals on, but we still have to have it right up to the summer break. It is not because this proposal is huge, because it really is not, but the complexity of it, in terms of what it risks having derived effects on everything else that we deal with everyday. After all, we know that every time we talk about punishment for crimes or compensation, about fines, we measure crimes against each other, what is fair and what is fair, and that is why it is absolutely crucial to get this right. So, as far as the first part of the bill is concerned, we support the intention, but we think it is essential to get the right and actually more important than to get the goal right on this side of the summer break. It is not that we do not want to work quickly, but it is just that we look each other in the eye and then say that everything we have to do in the area of justice in the future, that is, our scale, risks being distorted if we take a decision here that is not well thought out. That was the first part of the bill. The second part of the draft law is a proposal that is about the possibility of obtaining compensation, even if there is little torment, but when there have been serious violations, and we naturally support that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506153758	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then, through the rapporteurs present today, we have reached the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506153812	I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the discussion and the speeches that have been made in connection with the consideration of this legislative proposal, which, overall, intends to give greater justice to those who have been subjected to a crime. It means a lot to each victim that it is recognised that he has been subject to a crime, and often the compensation, whether in the form of tort compensation or some other form of monetary compensation, is a Band-Aid on the wound, which makes the victim a little easier to move forward. In this respect, it is of course important that the compensation or compensation be paid as soon as possible. With the bill, we will solve far from everything, but take some important steps towards greater consideration of the victims, by removing the ceiling for tort compensation in digital sexual violations, by extending the area of where infringement compensation can be granted, and by simplifying the interest rate calculation in victim redress cases. We've seen how material can spread at lightning speed on the Internet. We saw it, among other things. in the so-called Umbrella case. Up to a thousand youths here chose to share some highly offensive videos of two other young people under the age of 18. As a victim, when you share a video with a sexual content, you are entitled, as a starting point, to tort reimbursement from the perpetrator. However, the Supreme Court's practice provides for a ceiling for the remuneration. This means that at some point it is estimated that the victim is now adequately compensated for the torment that is a little, and then the victim cannot be granted any more. We think this is unreasonable. We know that it means a lot to the victims that it is recognised that they have been subjected to an offence and every time an insulting video or image is shared, it is a new humiliation for the victim. The person may be subjected to these violations many times and also over a long period of time. The victim must be compensated for that. That is why we are proposing that all digital sexual offences committed independently should be assessed independently and in this way remove the ceiling placed above the tort allowance. With this solution, we also ensure that there are no perpetrators who do not have to pay the compensation simply because their criminal proceedings are being dealt with after the ceiling has been reached. It may be more or less arbitrary, and is therefore also deeply offensive to the sense of justice. In addition, we propose to establish a starting point for the level of tort reimbursement for digital sexual violations of DKK 5,000-30,000. Similarly, in the case of other forms of sexual abuse, a starting point for reimbursement has been laid down in previous legal notes. I would like to stress that this is only a starting point. It will always be the courts that assess and determine the final remuneration on the basis of the specific circumstances of the case. In addition, the proposal takes account of a problem that followed the so-called Se and Hør case, which concerned the monitoring of a person's credit card transactions. In that case, the Supreme Court found that the victim had not suffered pain and was therefore not entitled to compensation. Tort's a special size. In general, it is understood as a violation that is suitable to affect a person's sense of self- and honour. Even in the case of serious crimes such as: in the Se and Hør case, it is not certain that the victim has suffered and thus has the opportunity to receive compensation. In cases where there is little torment, compensation for infringement may, where appropriate, be granted in the event of a serious attack on someone else's person or freedom. On the other hand, as the legal situation now stands, violations of peace or honour are not covered by the scope of compensation for infringements. We want to make sure that there are no serious violations that fall outside the scope of compensation, because, as the Se and Hør case showed us, there are cases where even very serious violations do not justify compensation for torture. That is why we are also proposing, following on from the motion for a resolution which has been mentioned earlier, that the area of compensation for infringements should be extended to serious violations of someone else's peace or honour. Finally, the aim of the draft law is to simplify the way interest is calculated in victim compensation cases. When, as a victim, you apply for compensation through the State scheme, which ensures that persons who have been injured as a result of an infringement of inter alia: The criminal law, which can be compensated, is crucial that the procedure is as simple and flexible as possible. In 2020, the Supreme Court ruled in a case on the date of return on compensation and compensation, which means that the Compensation Board changed its remuneration practice. Therefore, today, the Compensation Board sets the interest dates on the basis of a concrete and discretionary assessment for each claim. This can lead to less predictability and transparency for citizens seeking compensation. In addition, the changed practice has meant that it has become more complicated for the mention to determine the interest periods. It has resource implications, which may lead to longer processing times, a time which, in my view, is already too long. That is why we are now proposing that there should be an objective and unambiguous date from which interest should be paid. More specifically, in future, interest will have to be paid 14 days after the date of the decision if the compensation or compensation has not been paid before that date. It must ensure that it becomes easier and less resource-intensive for the mentioned to determine the interest periods, which supports a more flexible procedure in the matter. At the same time, it contributes to making the Board's remuneration decisions more transparent and predictable. The proposal has the disadvantage that the injured party will receive less interest from his compensation or compensation. We compensate for this in order to propose that the injured party's claims for compensation or compensation be secured in the course of the proceedings. In addition, I think it is important to be aware that the actual compensation or compensation received by the victim, that is. the exclusive interest rate will be higher in most cases and, contrary to the interest rate amount, it is also tax-free. All in all, then, the bill will provide a number of improvements for the victim when it comes to the award of compensation and compensation, and I hope that after committee reading we will also have broad support for the legislative proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506154421	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506154425	It may be that the Minister will comment on what we have been through countless times, namely the example of the two neighbours: one woman has been subjected to a sexual abuse that has been divided and then, according to our calculations, she gets 2.5 million. kr. indemnification, and the other has been raped, and she gets DKK 100,000. Will the Minister comment on the proportions of that? How are we supposed to explain this to the rape victim, to put it bluntly?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506154454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506154455	First of all, I would like to say that I think this is a very relevant and entirely legitimate discussion. Secondly, I would also like to say to Mrs Lund, I think it was right that with the digitalisation we are also moving a little out into unknown land. We just need to find out what is actually the fair way to get compensation for digital violations. Having heard the debate, I would also like to emphasise that this proposal is, of course, about independent violations. So it is not about one person who divides it to 100 people, but about many different perpetrators. So it is independent infringements of the law that must be assessed independently. What we can then discuss is whether, if ten different people send a video to ten different people, it can then be considered as ten fistfights, and whether you have to put the compensations on top of each other, or whether we reach a level where we have to set a ceiling. I understand that this will be discussed in committee and I look forward to it. Our starting point, of course, is what the bill says.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506154604	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506154605	With regard to the proposal to have some sort of ceiling for proportional reasons, however, that no one should profit from being above the ceiling, so that they have to pay up to a victim fund so that they get rid of everything they have to get rid of, and the victim gets the money the victim should have, such a thought would be completely remote from the minister, or could we continue with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506154628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506154629	I would like to start by saying that I am pleased that we agree that the crucial thing is that the perpetrators come to their pockets. Then there are some practical circumstances that may be a little difficult to put in place, among other things. As to when we know whether we have hit the ceiling. A lot of things will be running in different dishes at the same time and things like that. But the political discussion we need is the fact that when I was a child, we shared football cards with each other, and today unfortunately it has happened that some young men, unfortunately typically, share sexually offensive content with each other, as if it were a football card: here you have Michelle from Ringsted, will you be able to trade with her, you know from Slagelse? It is extremely cross-border, and we need to take action on that. I also think we need to insist that individual violations should be dealt with individually. With regard to the question of whether we should have a ceiling, that is not our starting point, but of course I look forward to seeing what the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is going to find.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506154718	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506154732	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506154756	Thank you for the floor. The draft law before us today is to repeal three provisions of the Public Act: 1) the calendar rule, 2) the ministerial service rule and 3) the parliamentary policy rule. These are rules which today include: helps to ensure that within a government and in the relationship between the government and the Folketing there is an opportunity to exchange views and ideas without access to them. I would like to start by saying that we cannot support the proposal. This is mainly due to the fact that we do not agree with the content, but it is also due to the fact that the Public Service Act is bound by a settlement of which the government is part. The Publicity Act has been regularly discussed recently, including in this Chamber, and you already know the government's view. That is why I shall be very brief today. With the bill you want to see, among other things. This is the first time that the European Parliament has been given the opportunity to express its views on this matter. If the proposal is adopted, this will mean, for example, that there will be access to documents submitted to the government's own committees. It is important for the quality of the decisions taken by a government that all aspects of a case are clarified, among other things. with arguments against the solution which would otherwise be politically preferable. In my opinion, it would be very difficult to calm down and clarify all aspects of a case before taking a decision if the reflection and negotiation phase takes place in public. There is hardly any organization, company, association or anything else that can work without internal discussions, which are not shared with others, on how to solve various problems. This applies to political parties, to other associations, and also to governments. It is clear, of course, that for a government there must be a very different degree of openness from that of private associations and political parties, and that is also why we have a public law which strikes a balance between the opposing considerations I have just mentioned. So to round off, we're against the bill. The Publicity Act is bound by a settlement between the Government, the Left and the Conservatives. We recognise that there is a desire among the parties in the conciliation to amend the law, and that is why, on the basis of the conciliation circle, I will continue the discussions on amending the law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155025	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155029	Thank you. This is not the first time that the Enhedslisten and the Social Democrats have had this debate. Now there is a Social Democrat standing on the floor and representing the government, and we have also discussed the public law on several occasions during this period of government. I just have to ask the Minister if it would not be better for trust between government and citizens if citizens could learn a little more about what is going on in government work. After all, this is not about removing the confidential negotiating room that politicians obviously need and which they also need in a government. After all, this is about our democracy, which we have all spent a long time praising over the last few months. I think that public access to the government is quite an important part of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155135	It is true that this is not the first time that the Danish Parliament has discussed the public law, but it is now for me personally. Actually, I haven't really gotten to the rules before we had to discuss this bill. And I have to say that if we adopt the legislative proposal here, in other words remove the three rules that are quite fundamental to the public law, then we end up in a situation where we at least think that it is placed on the table at any time in a situation where it will be very difficult to have internal decision-making processes across ministries, which is absolutely fundamental to be able to make decisions, also difficult decisions, where there is a need to be information on the table, which may be drawn in different directions, and which can be based on information from abroad, or which, in multiparty governments, can also cover up some internal disagreements; then it will be very difficult to act as a single government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155237	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155239	I am asking because the Minister's party I am in favour of the Minister having his first day in the Chamber today, but the Minister might as well get used to this debate, because we often have it, so welcome to the meeting, after all, until the Public Service Act was amended in 2013, that these rules should not be there. Then you came into government and then you changed your mind and made the public law that we are dealing with today. Then it's just that I can't understand what happened right in that row, other than that, of course, as a party, you became part of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155316	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155317	I shall start by saying that I shall get used to the debate. And the next thing is that I don't know what did, that you had one position back in 2012 and another now. We really think that the Public Service Act is, as a starting point, somewhat linked today, but we are also part of a settlement with the Left and Conservatives and have some obligations in this regard. That is why we have also said that we are looking at it again and that there will now again be political discussions, and that will then be on the basis of the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155353	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155356	Thank you for that, and welcome to the new Minister of Justice. Congratulations on the post. I look forward to your cooperation. And as someone who has been discussing public law for 10 years or something, I can just say that that debate never gets used to. But it could be funny. In connection with the question debate on F 27 last month, we also discussed the Public Access Act, and on that occasion I asked Minister for Justice Nick Hækkerup about when the next possible date was. It was in connection with the joint adoption text that we wrote that the amendments to the Public Service Act which the Left has proclaimed we want must be completed as soon as possible. To this the Minister for Justice replied: "It is not just up to me to decide. It is also up to the negotiators from the Left and from the Conservatives to decide. But it seems to me that it is realistic that we have completed the negotiations with the end of this year... so before New Year's Eve 2022. I would just like to ask the new Minister of Justice to confirm that this remains the ambition of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155457	Yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155501	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155504	Thank you. We look forward to the negotiations by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155507	You too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155508	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155510	Thank you. We are doing the same, even if we are not in that conciliation, because it can only hopefully bring us a little forward in bringing in more transparency. I mean, we managed to rule the country before these rules were introduced, so can we not do it if we do it in those negotiations? After all, the Minister is welcome to the area and you cannot ask the Minister to be 100,000 per cent. Into this. But after all, now that we have the debate, where does the Minister think we might have darkened too much, did it a little too opaque? Now it is not something that the Minister should be kept up on that I would like to say very, very clearly but what does the Minister think about where we could bring more light into our democratic system so that it is easier for all sorts of people to follow the middle bills?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155558	Now I have only been Minister of Justice for a few days, but I have been Minister of Foreign Affairs for three years, and there are always applications for access from private individuals and the media and all sorts of things. I think that is entirely legitimate and proper. And my starting point is that I think that the current rules are working quite well. I cannot deny that it would make sense to adjust a little here and there, but basically I think we have an excellent public law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155631	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155632	In fact, it sounds a little like it is the Left and the Conservatives who have to pull the government towards greater transparency, but it also sounds like the Minister is going to negotiate it. And if those negotiations end in something that makes it a little more transparent, what will the Minister's priority be?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155657-2	Well, that's what we're committed to. I also think that when you are part of a settlement, you cannot just sit down with your arms crossed and sit back. Then, of course, you have a responsibility for this, I believe, to hold together the conciliation circle that has basically carried the existing legislation through. I think it is absolutely essential for a people's government to have a free and open and critical press, rather a press that sometimes may just go a step too far than a press that never goes to the edge. So I am in favour of an open and free and enlightened debate. But I also think that we have that in Denmark. That is also why I say that, as a starting point, our position is actually that we have a fairly public law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155743	Thank you for that and there will be no further brief comments. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then it is the rapporteurs that we need to get started and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democrat Party. Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155800	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing today is aimed at repealing three specific provisions of the Public Procurement Act: the calendar rule, the ministerial service rule and the parliamentary policy rule. In order not to pull out the tension I can feel it there I can start by stating that we cannot support this. We regularly discuss the Publicity Act, both here in the Chamber and in the committee rooms, and this is because the parties do not take a similar view of the rules of the Publicity Act and how the considerations behind the law should be balanced. We believe that the law should be based on the fact that we have openness and transparency in public administration, while at the same time ensuring a confidential space in which officials and ministers can work more informally and dynamically. We believe that the public law as it stands today has struck a fair balance between the various considerations. So we do not agree that the relevant provisions should be repealed. Perhaps I could also mention that, as you know, the Public Service Act, as has already been said in here today, is bound by a conciliation which we are part of, so we must first discuss possible changes to the law in the conciliation circle. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155917	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, the first is from Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506155923	Thank you for your speech, and again to Enhedslisten: Thank you for the debate. Where is it that the rapporteur specifically sees that a little more information on these three points would destroy the possibility of internal dialogue? I often think it is the case that if you show the intercepts, if you show that you have also disagreed, if you show that you have actually made decisions on an extended basis, which has had many angles, then it signals credibility because you actually show that you have had many things in play. Where is the danger of showing the public what sort of middle bills you have?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160004	There is no doubt that we are looking at this issue differently, and what is the position of the Social Democratic Party is that there is a need for a confidential space where politics can also be discussed and developed, and that is what has been the basis for several debates that we have had. We have even had a hearing where the whole point of that consultation was to say: can there be some others who can make good offers about how large or how small the confidential space should be? It is not, of course, because we have not tried to negotiate this area before, when some people have wanted to change, but every time it is stranded that we do not find any new solutions, but stick to the rules that we have and the rules that we have today, we think they should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160055	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160056	I am aware of this, and I am also aware of the position of the Social Democrats in this area. I'm just asking about the middle bills. I'm just asking, why? I'm trying to get smarter. Can the rapporteur give a few examples of processes in which light or information on the matter or the fact that we give citizens insight into the decision-making processes will harm policy development?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160128	As I read this bill, Enhedslisten and Mrs Rosa Lund propose that it is the whole thing that has to go, and that is why it is a lot of different parts. But an example might be that when Mr. Torsten Gejl takes part in negotiations, and the questioner does so regularly, so it may be that Mr. Torsten Gejl puts forward proposals, questions that must be counted and looked at and that he may not be quite sure about, and in that room there is room for those who negotiate and discuss to ask all sorts of questions, including stupid questions, without going anywhere else, in respect of some parties negotiating some agreements, and I think that everyone sitting in this room has tried that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160214	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160217	Thank you. Now we can understand, and it has actually been publicly known for a long time, that there has to be a debate in the now small circle of conciliation. And I just want to hear what is actually going on in this debate when Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg stands on the platform and says that there is nothing you really want to change. So what is Social Democracy bringing to the table in this debate? Should we expect some new paragraphs to be made now, so that there will be more secrecy, or should we expect the Social Democrats to actually enter into this debate with the Left and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, working for more openness?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160256	But it is the case that when there are some parties in a conciliation group who together are behind an agreement, you do so until there is no settlement anymore. And what is the starting point now is that there are some parties in the conciliation that think we should look at the rules that exist. And it is not the Social Democrats who have proposed it; we think that the rules as they are today are good rules. But that is how the concrete negotiations come to the Social Democratic Party, and it is not me, because it is far above my pay limits, but the Minister to go along with the other conciliation parties. And then they have to have a discussion and find out what they can agree on there. But it is not something that is going to happen here in the Chamber, and Mrs Rosa Lund knows that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160342	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160343	Well, thank you for explaining how conciliation and negotiations work as we didn't know in advance, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg. We know that. What I would like to ask now and which, in my clear opinion, must be within the pay framework of Mr Beazley's report. Bjørn Brandenborg, is what the rapporteur himself thinks. What is going to happen in this debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160409	Well, I'd like to say that again and again. Because that's what I said when I read it. I said that I think that the legislation we have today takes into account the fact that there must also be a closed space where policy can be discussed and developed. So I think, and this has been said in all the debates that we have had, that I have only managed to have a few as a legal rapporteur in this area • that the legislation we have in this area is a good piece of legislation that strikes a fine balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160437	Thank you, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160456	Thank you for that and thank you to Enhedslisten for bringing forward the bill. Let me also immediately trigger the tension by saying that the Left will not vote in favour of the bill. But that does not mean that we are satisfied with the public law as it is. We're not. We believe that there is a need to relax the rules of the Public Service Act. In particular, we believe that we have seen examples of this during the Corona crisis. There were examples of the government using the Public Service Act for a very inappropriate secrecy, in our view, about important decisions. That is why we have announced that we want a renegotiation of the conciliation that lies behind the Public Service Act. And the fact that we have done so means that the majority behind the public law is gone, and that is why, of course, the Social Democrats have said that there will be negotiations. They're so small at work, but it's slow. And that is why last month I asked the Minister of Justice, Nick Hækkerup, to speed up the negotiations, and precisely here today I have asked the same question to the new Minister for Justice, where I was fortunately confirmed that we can achieve a goal by 2022, so that we will have a new public law that ensures more openness than the one we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160623	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment and it is from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160627	But, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, if it is not these amendments that are designed to ensure more transparency in the Public Service Act, what are these amendments?
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160639-2	Yes, these are some other changes, and I am not going to explain them in detail here. There has been a bit in the press; that is something we are taking at the negotiating table. Nor do I wish to deny that there is any point made by the Enhedslisten that we can be inspired by, just as we have been inspired by the proposal which, among other things, is: has come from the Danish Journalist Federation, which contains many fine ideas. So we are happy to accept inspiration and for that matter also from Mrs Rosa Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160712	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160713	I just think it's interesting to say that you want to have more publicity, but then you can't be public about how it's going to happen, so it's not a little strange, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen? I've read in Berlingske that some of it, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen would like to change the principle of public access, and that is in my optics elastic in meter, because the principle of public access is really just about the office being able to say: yes, we have looked at it, there is no need for any more publicity here. Then the principle has been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160748	Well, that is why the principle of openness needs to be changed. Because Mrs Lund is absolutely right that, as it is today, there is a duty to consider whether to give more publicity. When you have then considered it, you can come to the conclusion that you do not want it; that is why we want it changed; it does not work as it is now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160807	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506160831	Thank you for the floor. It is now almost a year since the Folketing adopted B 169, a proposal from the SF, which instructed the government to call for negotiations on a new public law. The proposal was adopted and it was also supported by the Minister for Justice's own party. The Minister of Justice promised to convene Parliament's parties to: uncover the parties' concrete wishes for changes to the law and what process the parties might see for themselves. It has now been almost a year without us having had anything that merely resembles substantive discussions of the law or discussions of a process of amending the law. This is in sharp contrast to what the Minister said when the proposal was adopted and to the broad wish of the parties of the Folketing to address the extensive criticism raised over the years by experts, Commission, Media and the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament. As it emerged during the question debate we had in the Chamber a month ago, the status is that nothing has happened at all. The fact that a unanimous Parliament, which has clearly indicated that negotiations on the Public Service Act should be held up in this way, is not good enough. I would therefore also like to hear from the Minister for Justice whether he believes that it is good governance to ignore a united Parliament. At least we don't think so. It can then be argued that there are some parties to the agreement and that it is logical that the negotiations are running in that circle, but the Minister has just set out to convene all the parties of the Folketing, not just the conciliation circle. I also note that the Left has actually expressed the need for a broad majority behind the new rules. So what is the government waiting for? As you know, there are enough problems to address with the Public Service Act. Let me also mention some of the areas where we would probably be able to get together across parties. We agree that much today falls into the dark section, that there is a need for more openness about the professional basis behind the political decisions, that the provisions of the law on publicity should be given more importance than is currently the case, and that, for example, there should be greater importance to the law on public access to documents. the epidemic area and, more importantly, it should be subject to the same openness as the environment. There are also some parties who agree that the ministerial service rule should be relaxed, and indeed we are also in favour of abolishing it, so that we have greater access to professional judgements than we have today, without compromising the confidential space for political discussions. There are probably many other things on which we agree. The left has reported most of the above, and if you run away from it again, it sure looks bad. We are in the paradoxical situation today that we have two public laws in Denmark. One works fine and therefore does not receive much attention; it is the one that the Ministry of the Environment uses, and then there is another that goes against the intention and instead of the darker. In fact, the Environmental Information Act provides a fair balance between the public interest and the consideration of the confidential space that the Minister needs at all times. We will therefore look at it as a good standard for how a new public law should be put together. The government should show good governance and live up to what a large number of parties in this Chamber want, so that we can have a new public law. With regard to the specific proposal that we are discussing here today, the Institute of Human Rights and the Danish Journalists' Association have some, I think, fine amendments, and of course one could have incorporated them into the proposal, but it should not stand in the way of our being able to support the proposal from the Enhedslisten. Because we can do that. I would just like to point out that at least the former minister sometimes said that if you are happy with openness, you could start by opening your group meetings in the SF. I think that the minister knew that this comparison does not last for all the time that the SF is a party, an association, whereas the device of which the Minister sits as a part, belongs both to, is financed by and takes decisions on behalf of all the citizens of Denmark. So it's just to get any cocky remarks ahead of you. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161249	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161253	Thank you for that and thank you for your support. We have just tabled this proposal as a legislative proposal to ensure that there is a thorough examination, and then we can discuss precisely the objections and comments of the Institute for Human Rights. What I really want to ask is that the rapporteur's President, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, intends to be the greenest minister of finance. That means you're going to be in government. So I just wanted to know if the SF imagines that the issue of the Public Service Act will then be part of any government negotiations to be held.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161332	I do not think we have taken a position on that. After all, there have not yet been elections, nor have there been any discussions yet. It is always difficult if you come into government and there are other parties you could imagine that it was the Social Democratic Party that does not want to change the public law. And I think that Mrs Rosa Lund knows very well that you can only change that in a government that you can agree on together. And there, I think, there will be no problem which will be quite unsolvable. I still hope that the Socialists will change their minds and think that it is worth working for more openness. In any case, we will try to push them on it. I promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161422	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161422-2	Well, thank you. I'm sure we'll follow up on that. And, of course, we must agree, including in a government. We know it also from the debates we had after the last parliamentary elections on the understanding paper, where we also failed to get amendments to the public law as part of it, and that is something we are really sorry about in the Enhedslisten, and I also guess that you are in the SF and in the Radical Left as well. But it is just a request to the SF that, if you are going to be in government, this may sometimes come up a little dry, hidden issues high on the agenda of the government negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161501	Well, there is no doubt that we in the SF are on the target for us to want changes to the public law, and we will also press for that to happen. I would just like to warn you that you can be too optimistic, because the Socialists have basically announced that they do not want more openness; they think that the legislation is fine as it is today. And Mrs Lund's example of understanding paper may be a very good example of how difficult it is to get to grips with this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161531	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the Socialist People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161541	Thank you very much. In the Radical Left, we want a new public law designed to create greater openness and transparency in public administration. Yes, it could be called a law of openness, because it is a precondition for democracy that we can see the rulers in the cards, and that is just not the case today. In 2013, the Radical Left itself helped to introduce a new public law. We have regretted this since then, because the aim was to create more openness in a number of areas, but we ended up with more secrecy. And it is particularly the controversial ministerial rule that causes cases of public interest to be obscured and impossible for journalists to dig into. In the Radical Left, we are ready for a fight with the blackout curtains, because we must and must have a new regime around the pillar of our democracy that the public law constitutes. We thank Enhedslisten for bringing forward this bill, which we will also support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161653	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur, and then it is already the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, since the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is the last, and that is Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161713	Thank you. The proposal we are debating now concerns the amendment of a law that has been characterised by a great deal of public debate since the adoption of the law in 2013. The debate on the Public Procurement Act has focused primarily on the limitations of transparency resulting from the law. The order wants the proposers to ensure openness and public access to the work of the rulers in order to ensure insight into the democratic political process. And in order to fulfil this wish, the proposers will abolish the calendar rule, the ministerial service rule and the parliamentary politician rule. Especially the two of the three things here have been heated debate. The public law we have today is based on a thorough work by the Public Service Commission. We are already in the middle of a series of meetings in the conciliation circle, and since we in Conservatives believe that we should legislate with thoroughness and thoughtfulness, we of course also believe that the discussions that are taking place in the Ministry of Justice should be concluded. And that's why Conservatives can't support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161825	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161830	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The fact that the changes must be done with thoroughness and thoughtfulness is something we have heard before. We in the Enhedslisten are in complete agreement with that. That is why we have tabled this proposal precisely as a legislative proposal and not as a motion for a resolution or a question or in consultation. That is precisely because we want three treatments. It must be thorough and it must be thoroughly worked out. At the same time, I would also like to say that this is not the first time we have discussed this, and I believe that, on behalf of the other parties supporting this bill, I can promise that they will have thought carefully about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161909	I have no doubt about that at all, but that does not mean that we support it. We are sitting as part of a conciliation procedure right now, and I simply think that it would be out of order if we did not finish the discussions we are engaged in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161924	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161925	But can Mrs Britt Baker reveal to the rest of us when they are expected to be done with these discussions? After all, this is an issue which concerns many parties here in the Danish Parliament, but which, in general, also involves a great many others outside Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506161944	At any rate, I can tell you that the Minister for Justice has promised that we will be finished by the end of the year. I suppose the Minister of Justice intends to live up to that. At any rate, we in the Conservatives are going to press for this to take place at an even pace, and I could listen to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, that he will, so will we not see a little more frequent negotiations than there have been so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506162020	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker and the Conservative People's Party. Hey, sorry, there was one more brief comment. I'm sorry. There is one more brief comment to be made on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506162033	Thank you. It's been there for a while now, but leave it alone. In 2019 there was an article in Berlingske with a news from Ritzau, which described that all parties in the Folketing, with the exception of the Left and the Social Democratic Party. The Conservative People's Party would also remove the ministerial service rule, § 22 and § 27. I do not want to go into what the parties are debating now. It's fair that it's going on in a closed room, and that's the way it is. But I just want to know if it is still the policy and aim of the Conservative People's Party to remove the ministerial service rule, paragraphs 22 and 27.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506162115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506162116	At any rate, it is our aim to see whether there should be any change. Technically, I have to rebuke Mrs Pernille Vermund, because now Mrs Pernille Vermund also referred to that article last time, which is why, of course, I went home and looked at it. And it is the case that an article has been quoted from as far back as 2016. There are no quotes from 2019, Mrs Pernille Vermund. Mrs Pernille Vermund cannot find a direct quote in the article taken from 2019. It is just a technicality, but now the rapporteur used the same article last time, and there is not a direct quote from 2019. I hope the rapporteur can confirm this. Having said that, we are still going away to negotiations with the same ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506162205	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506162205-2	After the last debate, I sent two articles to the rapporteur, and the article I am referring to here is from 2019 immediately before the elections, where it emerged that Conservatives were one of the many parties that wanted to abolish the ministerial service rule, § 22 and § 27. Either it must have been the case that Berlingske and Ritzau have misrepresented Conservative policy at the time, that is fair enough, if that is what the rapporteur says, that it has never been conservative policy. Or the question is whether it is conservative politics or whether it was conservative politics and whether it still is. That's just what I want to clarify.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506162243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506162244	I think I replied very clearly to that when I said that our ambition is still gone, that we are going to negotiations to make changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506162252	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506162306	Thank you. An opportunity to give greater insight into public work is, of course, something we support. Unfortunately, we are still suffering from the cover-up of the Public Service Act, but here we will be able to lighten a bit of the darkness of the Public Service Act. We have, of course, recently had cases where there could suddenly be a great deal of debate about what should actually be recorded and what can be required to be published and, above all, who should decide on what. So a society in which the rulers cannot hide anything from the public, other than, of course, what will compromise the security of the nation, we support. This proposal is therefore a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506162351	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, Mrs Pernille Vermund. It is understandable that the debate can also continue on the benches, but nevertheless it is Mrs Pernille Vermund's turn as rapporteur for the new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506162414	Thank you, and I'm sorry. These are simply the conditions when you have only a few minutes to ask questions and comment on a debate which means a great deal to many of us. We've been standing here before, and here we are again. Several motions for resolutions have been tabled, including those tabled by the New Citizens' Party, to make more openness, let us call it the Public Act. If we are standing here now, it is easy to say that we are voting in favour, but I must also say that we have had a question debate a month ago, in which we tried to push to hear how far we are in the negotiations that we were told just over a year ago to start now and where several of us have been called up once. We therefore have the feeling that there is not such a great momentum in the negotiations. It is possible that there is more going on in the conciliation circle. I am not supposed to be able to say anything about that. But bearing in mind how much of the members of the Folketing are concerned with this and how many times we have dealt with it, it might be nice that one somehow got a certainty about what is going to happen, not least because it was a unanimous Parliament that decided on the basis of the SF's, now I cannot even remember whether it was a motion for a resolution or a question debate that had to be called for negotiations and that the government should initiate negotiations in this area. We support the proposal, and I have to say that if you were against what you might call the blackout law before the Social Democratic Government was given power, that is probably even more so now. It is not because we are opposed to the Public Service Act as such, but because the changes that were introduced, which gave the Public Service Act the nickname of the cover-up law, have enabled politicians and the government to keep the cards very close to the body. And I think it has also come as a surprise to some of those who made the agreement that one could have a government as closed and as closed as the current government has been. Not least in connection with the corona management, this has been quite glaring. I have mentioned the many examples in which we have lacked transparency, in all my previous rapporteur speeches, and I shall spare you for that now. But, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506162646	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506162656	Thank you for the floor. The background to the law of ministerial responsibility, which was adopted in 1964, was very tragic. It emerged from the fact that a majority in the Folketing had been deceived by the then Transport Minister, Johannes Kjærbøl, in connection with the Hans Hedtoft disaster in 1959, which cost 95 people their lives. We support Bill L 140 of the Liberal Alliance, and we do so on the basis of an event that has not cost human lives, but which is in many ways quite tragic: the non-legal order that all mink in Denmark should be killed, which came in November 2020. In 1959 the legal situation was that the Folketing could not really come after the Minister for Transport, although he deceived the Folketing, and today it is too easy for any government to be responsible for complex decisions to evaporate. There is a joke in urban planning circles that Odense Station Center has built itself because it is not possible to prove who has said that it was a good idea to build it, and in the same way it is also the case that it can be very difficult to prove who has made very complex decisions because of the way in which the law on public administration is drafted. So it is not, as it is today, strictly illegal to hide material that can clarify the question of who actually helped to make a particular decision, nor is it strictly illegal to hide how exactly the decision has been taken, and that is actually a bad thing. For it is in the law of ministerial responsibility that it is responsible to participate in making a decision, and gross negligence is also responsible. So, you don't have to be intent on doing something wrong; if your case has been sufficiently sloppy, it is actually also responsible. But the state of law is that one can hide who is involved in making a decision and one can hide whether a decision has been taken in a negligent or grossly negligent manner. Of course, it is very important to avoid disasters, but when they happen, they also have to learn something from them. After the Hans Hedtoft disaster, the Folketing did the right thing and made the law of ministerial responsibility that we have today, and after the very, very disastrous mink decision, the Folketing ought to do the same, namely ensure that very unfortunate, but very difficult to elucidate, mishandlings of complex political issues cannot happen. This law would really be a big step in the right direction, and it is therefore boring that there is no majority for it right now, but it will come at some point, because it cannot be right that decisions can simply evaporate, as things are today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506163035	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506163058	Thank you, President. I believe that if we were to give the alternative a middle name, it would have to be transparency. We believe that we have too little transparency in the Folketing, and of course we support this excellent proposal to bring more transparency into the political work. In 2013, the government of the Social Democrats, Radicals and SF, with the support of the Left and Conservatives, adopted a new public law, which Radicals and SF are no longer in. The agreement was called a cover-up law when it was among other things. Two key new restrictions were introduced: the ministerial service rule and the parliamentary politician rule. The rules broke with one of the basic principles that the exchange of internal documents means that documents are caught by the rules on access to documents. The new rules were then intended to protect politically sensitive matters. Even then, it actually met strong criticism in the public debate and in this Chamber, and it continues to do so. The Publicity Act, as it is now, leads to serious restrictions on which information journalists and citizens can demand insight into. For example, it was possible to keep professional judgements on the basis of decision-making. Jørgen Albæk Jensen, professor at Aarhus University, has among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that the Public Service Act is relatively strict in relation to what is seen in other countries around us and that, therefore, it is easy to relax without destroying the government's ability to conduct policy. In the past, the Ombudsman has stated that the ministerial service rule has led to a significant reduction in public access to the use of the official work by the current government. The Ombudsman has also stated that journalists must be able to trust the authorities. If the authorities make a very narrow definition of a request for access to documents without telling the journalist about it, the effect on the journalist will in fact be the same as if the authorities were actually hiding the information. The alternative is that a new public law should serve democracy and help any current government to be seen over the shoulders of members of parliament, critical press and citizens. This avoids a government having a monopoly on information. Citizens must have a genuinely informed basis on which to hold politicians to account when setting the intersection. That is why we welcome the draft law that we are dealing with today, which will precisely remove the provisions that exempt calendaring, ministerial service and documents exchanged between ministers and members of parliament from being covered by the right of access to documents. As the proposer says, it is absolutely essential for a democracy that the people and the press have the opportunity to control elected politicians so that abuse of power is avoided and confidence between the people and those in power is maintained and encouraged. In the alternative, we have also noticed that there is more openness about information from the Ministry of the Environment and, like the SF, we thought that it might be a model. I am acting environmental rapporteur and have just negotiated 15 national parks for almost a billion. kr. in the Ministry of the Environment, so I have been in very, very many situations there, and there has been no way whatsoever, whereby the increased openness in the Ministry of the Environment has limited our negotiations at all. We are pleased that it has been announced that the continued negotiations will take place in a broad circle. This means that a debate like this today makes a great deal of sense, because we can start it up a little and exchange ideas and so on, and I think we have done so too. So we are really looking forward to those negotiations, and we thank Enhedslisten for doing this exercise so that we can all discuss the subject a little before we hope to create much, much more light in the Danish democratic process. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506163507	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Alternative. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I can give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506163517	Thank you. Publicity in the administration is absolutely fundamental to our democracy. And when we put forward this bill, it is actually because we believe that, with regard to several of the cases we have been looking at lately, with the old public law, it would have been possible to get to the bottom of everything, instead of constantly having to create new committees of inquiry. We believe in the Enhedslisten that it is important that we ensure public access to the administration. We also think that the last time has shown that there is a need for transparency in particular, much more of it and not less of it. And that is why I am also pleased that my colleagues would like to spend Friday afternoon discussing this important issue. For openness in the administration and around the rulers at the heart of what the administration is, in other words, in the ministries, in the departments, is the prerequisite for us to have a democracy, in other words for the citizens and the public to be able to control the way in which those in power do work. That is also why we call the press, that is to say the public, part of the state power. And I believe, in fact, that the distrust we are experiencing for politicians and decision-makers and the distance we are experiencing between politicians and people can be reduced if we increase democratic control, as we in the Enhedslist believe this bill would do. I shall not tire you of all the examples that are of cases that would not have come forward if we had had the new public law, even though it is nearly ten years old. I would like to thank those parties that have changed their attitude to the Public Service Act; who helped to make the current Public Service Act but who have changed their attitude. Then I just have to say to the Left that it is good that you can keep saying that it is too bad that there was not enough openness around the minks can Valley and that it is too bad that there was not enough openness around corona. I agree with that. And how can we ensure that this openness will be there if we are in a pandemic some other time, or if we are again in a situation where it is very important to find out exactly when what decisions have been taken? How can we ensure that? Yeah, we can do that with this bill. And that is why I think it is actually a little irresponsible that the Left should continue to talk about more openness, but now that they have the chance to change it, they will not be able to do so anyway. There I have to say that I still have more respect for the Socialists, who say quite frankly that they do not want transparency. It must then be the rest of Parliament's task to ensure that, in the next parliamentary elections, those parties that support this proposal can form a majority. It is rare that I recommend someone to vote for the Liberal Alliance and the New Citizens' Party, but if you are right-wing, I think you should think about whether it was appropriate to vote for some parties that are genuinely liberal and that believe in the democracy that we have in Denmark and that in my optics and in the Enhedslisten's optics will be strengthened with this. I think, of course, that if we are to vote for a transparency party, it should be the Enhedslisten. But I actually think it's ridiculous of the Left, Denmark's so-called liberal party... now they're not even here to listen to my fucking ball, but I can send it to Mr. Simpson. Jan E. Jørgensen and other Left Members; the next time they criticise the government for secrecy, I would remind them that they had the opportunity to support this bill. Thank you for a good debate. And it is precisely a legislative proposal to ensure that we have three readings. Because we have been shot in the shoes before, that no, no, we cannot simply change the public law by means of a resolution; that is too irresponsible, and that is precisely why we have put the effort into making a legislative proposal. Let us discuss the content instead of the form. That is what we wanted to ensure with this, and we can now in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and I look forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506163915	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. And despite the enthusiasm for the bill, language is always important to bear in mind, even when you are frustrated by colleagues who are not here. However, there are no brief comments to Mrs Rosa Lund, so thank you to the Enhedslisten. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. And if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220506163943	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 10 May 2022 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
