ParlaMint-DK_20220510153029	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Simon Kollerup): Bill no. L 199 (Proposal for a law amending the Procurement Act, Law on the Procurement Board and Law on the procurement of certain public and publicly supported contracts. Tax Minister (Jep Bruus): Bill no. L 200 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Tax of Electricity, the Law on Tax-Free Compensation for Increases in Energy and Environmental Taxes and the Equalisation Act). and increase in the maximum employment allowance). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153110	The items listed as No. 1 and 2 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153119	The vote shall be taken in favour of items 1 and 2 of the agenda. Pursuant to Article 42 of the Rules of Procedure, a majority of three quarters shall be required for such consent and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. For voting 90 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG, ALT, KD, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Lise Bech (UFG), against voting 6 (DF), abstention 0. This gives consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153149	After the agenda has been issued, an amendment has been tabled by Morten Messerschmidt (DF). The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153215	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by Morten Messerschmidt (DF), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 23 (EL, DF, NB, LA, FG, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Lise Bech (UFG), against 74 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, ALT and KD), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 1 has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153247	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153257	Once again, a platform is conspicuous by the absence of those who want the Danes to abolish the defence reserve, and even by some of those who have contributed most lively to the debate. I would have liked to be able to ask Mrs Trine Bramsen or the former Minister for Defence tomorrow if what she has contributed to this debate over the years, but the Parliamentary Administration has chosen to cut me off. That is why I had hoped that she would be here today. She was just before she could come back. Because I think there are some things that qualify the decision that the Danes will take on 1 June, especially in relation to the arguments we have heard so far about why they should vote in favour. I guess one of the most widely seen broadcasts on the otherwise rather elusive TV channel dk4 is a program with Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen... Isn't he here either? It was unbelievable, however, that those who love the European Union the most disappear on this day. Well, at least a debate between the Secretary-General and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, where Mrs Trine Bramsen says: Jan E. Jørgensen before the whole thing about us sitting at the table. In fact, you do so as Danish Minister of Defence, who sits at the table. Quote out. Also in relation to the importance of the reservation itself, we have received clear-sighted words from the then Minister for Defence from 29 April 2021 at a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Europe, where she said, and I quote: I still have good reason to see how there are some very, very firm and concrete examples that the reservation blocks us from doing some of what we believe to be essential to Denmark's security. Quote out. At the same meeting she asks rhetorically, and I quote: What are the advantages of the defence reserve? That's what I'm asking, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. But the main argument is that it is self-determination and that it is democracy. Visionary, beautiful. But it is not only the former Minister of Defence who has thus enriched the debate, even our own Prime Minister, I can say to the listeners that she has usually been sitting there to enrich the debate, among other things. With these words from a conference held by THINKEN EUROPE, and I quote: I have not heard a single one yet, who has said to Denmark's reservations, in the rest of Europe; I have not met a single one who has asked about what I hear the discussion at home, but just to say that no one in Europe has yet approached me with the question: Why? Because we are dealing with the situation and because Denmark is considered an extremely committed country on a number of European issues. Quote out. In October 2021, the Prime Minister explained to Altinget and I quote: "I have not once in my time as Prime Minister experienced the reservations as a limitation. If you turn Denmark's position in Europe into a question of reservations, then you are simply wrong. This kind of thing would have been nice to be able to discuss with the authors of the quotes, but nobody wants the debate. Today, where most likely a majority of green lamps are going to light up, no one wants to defend the yes. Or maybe there is? Maybe our Secretary of State? Then he could elaborate on what he said to Altingen on 2 February this year, quite a short time before the famous national compromise was reached, and I quote: 'There is nothing in the defence reserve that will prevent us from pursuing the foreign, defence and security policy that we would like to pursue. The day the defence reserve prevents us from pursuing the foreign, defence and security policy that Denmark must pursue in order to look after our country, that day we must settle with the reservation. But we're not there at all. On the contrary, "Jeppe Kofod emphasized. It is therefore three weeks before the war in Ukraine, where everyone was talking about just that. Similar views can of course be found in the public debate, and they really speak for themselves, and that is why I would just like to leave to the Minutes of the Danish Parliament what has at least been said from the parliamentary platform here for the third reading, now that the authors and women themselves do not intend to speak. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153747	There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153752	We may disagree on a lot of things here, but now Mr. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is incredibly long to criticize colleagues for not being here, and I would just like to ask Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to confirm that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt left the Chamber when we were halfway through the first reading of this proposal because Mr. Morten Messerschmidt did not have time to deal with the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153815	Yes, I left it to our EU rapporteur. I feel convinced that Mr. Jens Joel has also tried a few times. Now, Mr. Knox... Mr Jens Joel takes the floor, I would like to ask whether it is true that Mr. Jens Joel in a television broadcast on 23 February, the day before Putin enters Ukraine, indicated that he is defending the reservation. I think it was on dk4, and I think we're about to have Dk4 on the Finance Act, because it's really public service that wants something. But is that true, sir? Jens Joel, and why?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153842	It's sir. Jens Joel again, for another brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153848	I think most people will be aware that we have said quite a lot of times that on 24 February things changed. Mr. Morten Messerschmide also explained. But Mr. Morten Messerschmidt was also fresh at first reading and said: please come down to the Chamber. You don't have the guts to debate. I have made myself rapporteur for you. Well, we thank you for that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. It's too bad that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt could not become the whole treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153917	You can say that when you give such gifts, it is difficult when no one then accepts them. Well, at least I can see Mr. Knox. Kim Valentin, I heard that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen was here. Rasmus Nordqvist, and Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen was here earlier. I've offered to dance. I've asked for your good arguments. So far, we can only find the good arguments that you have used in the past, which point towards voting no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510153944	In conclusion, I have to remind the rapporteur that the use of direct speech is not good. However, there are no more brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor, is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510154000	Thank you for that, President. It is the case that when you hear the debate here, you almost feel called to stand on the platform and make your speeches available so that you can have questions again. But that's not why I'm going up here. It's actually the most important thing to tell you that we're actually going to deal with this bill in the third place. In addition to the arguments we have discussed at second reading in relation to the democratic aspects, I also think it is important to establish what we are voting on on on 1 June. Because we are not voting on how we deal with the situation in Ukraine. I fully agree that it was a landmark event on 24 February when Russia attacked Ukraine, but I also believe that we need to make it clear that it has nothing to do with the defence reserve. What we are voting on on 1 June is whether Denmark should participate in the military actions that the European Union stands for now, and these are, of course, primarily actions in Africa. It is primarily actions that are concerned with defending Europe's and, to a particular extent, France's trading interests around the world. The question is, of course, how much it will contribute to increasing security both in Denmark and at European level, so that we begin to participate in military actions around the world. That is why I believe that the very central argument for refusing to abolish the defence reserve is the argument that it is the people's reservations. We must ensure that, in future, the people have the right to define whether Denmark should participate in the military dimension of the European Union. And, of course, it is the question of what we are going to contribute to what is today's defence reserve preventing us from participating in it? I cannot see any concrete actions where I say, and it is a pity that Denmark cannot participate here. On the contrary, there are a large number of actions in which it can be said that Denmark could play an increased international role here, where it was possible to contribute further to UN work, for example. through the maintenance of Scherbrigbrigaden, which was Danish-led and which was used in UN actions. This would have been an opportunity for us to strengthen our international role. We can look at the possibility of participating in UN actions. I believe that it is about 14 soldiers who have been sent into UN action today. Denmark could easily participate significantly more. We could, if we wanted, participate in mine clearance in Bosnia if there was a political willingness to do so. There are numerous operations around the world where Denmark could contribute more. It is entirely independent of whether or not we have an EU defence reserve. That is why I think the point is precisely that let us take that task on us, let us do it more, instead of starting to participate in the construction of a military dimension in the European Union, which is primarily intended to achieve that is what the Treaty also states to take part in actions outside the borders of the European Union. When we look at the concrete actions that this is about, I find it difficult to see how it contributes specifically to strengthening human rights, to strengthening the security situation both in Africa at global level, but also at European level and for that matter also at national level. So, once again, the clear position of the Enhedslisten, namely that we are calling for a vote against abolishing the EU defence reserve. That is why, of course, we are also voting against the two legislative proposals we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510154345	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur, who has asked for the floor, is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510154357	Die Einheit Europas war ein Idee von Wenigen. Sie wurde eine Hoffnung für Viele. Sie ist heute eine Notwendigkeit für uns alle: The idea of the collection of Europe was an idea that was born of the few, but became a hope for the many, and it is today a necessity for all of us. That is what the then German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer said when the European Community was created. Today, in my optics, these words are exactly as valid as they were then, and this referendum, which we are about to do, is not, to the best of my knowledge, about Denmark. It is also about Denmark because we are part of a community, but it is about whether we want to start taking each other seriously, as I said earlier, as Europeans and not just as Danes, Germans, Poles, Dutch, Hungarians, etc.; in other words, we take each other seriously as Europeans because we live in a continent where we share common destiny and where we inherit each other's benefits, but also each other's accidents. It is about whether we are able and will be able to take joint responsibility jointly for our interests on the European continent, including when it comes to foreign and security policy and whether we are able as Europe and as a community to make our voice audible and influence the global conditions prevailing in a multipolar world. That is the question to be dealt with, whether we should or should not. There are no large countries in Europe. It may be that we in Denmark think that Germany or France are large countries, but in a global context there are no large countries in Europe. That is why we need to stand together. That is why we need to show solidarity. That is why we have to dare to talk about Europe on a common European premise and not always on the basis of a national premise, including in the field of foreign and security policy. I miss that courage. It is fair that the 'no' side, whether from the left or from the right, chooses to take the national premise. That's fair enough if you have that point of view. But I think that we who vote 'yes' owe it to us to take an offensive debate not about what we do not want, because we are always standing with our hands up when Mr. Morten Messerschmidt or Mr. Peder Hvelplund says no. I remember, too, when Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Prime Minister, issued a referendum on the reservation of law. There it all came to be about Denmark not being included until the sun burns out. That's a bit of a defensive starting point. I have the impression that you can't sell a Coke if you start by saying it's lukewarm and brushed off. I believe that you must say with enthusiasm what you want to contribute to what you want to develop. There we are then constantly faced with the argument that it compromises our NATO interests and our membership of NATO. That's what I heard, sir. Morten Messerschmidt say a lot of times. However, the truth is that, both in 2016 and in 2018, joint statements have been made with joint action plans for cooperation between the EU and NATO. After all, the two are an integral part of each other, and that development has been there since 1993, when France once again joined NATO. We all know that at the time Charles de Gaulle wanted France out of NATO, because he saw the United States as a power that would decide everything, and then you had to have the Western European Union, which was a counterpart of NATO. This was the case up to the 1990s, but it has not been the case since France joined NATO, and cooperation has become more and more integrated, and it is strong for the common security policy interests because there are things that NATO has no mandate to do, and foreign and security policy is more than defending itself with tanks and soldiers. That's part of it, too. However, in the world in which we live today we have to understand and recognise that if we do not stand together in Europe for a common security and foreign policy strategy and tactics and the ability to be operational together, we will not have the influence on the continent and the world order that we claim to have. That is precisely why, with the developments we see today, when we have reaped the peace dividend for many years, for which we bear a joint responsibility, that is to say most of us who sit in here, must remember the words of the then German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer. It is about creating hope for our future generations that we have an influence on our own continent and can ensure peace and stability, not only because that hope must be desirable, but simply because that hope is necessary. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155114	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155119	I know, sir. Jens Rohde has a passionate relationship with Germany, with German politics. It is also felt, if nothing else, at the opening words of Jens Rohde's speech. If we have to move a little bit of our eyes, we could throw it at de Gaulle's homeland, at France, and there look at whether something might be dementing or going against it, as Mr. Jens Rohde is thinking about relations between the EU and NATO. For one of the great slogans of French politics has become l'autonomy européenne, in other words European autonomy, that one should be able to do so itself, that is, without the Americans. Macron has pointed directly to the Americans next to the Chinese and the Russians as a contrast to the EU army, which he speaks so warmly about. He has declared NATO irrelevant as well as what is best known as such brain-dead, that is to say, dancing un coma dépassé, that is, a coma that has gone even further. Finding mr. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155232	Now we have to remember what the circumstances were about, because it was an American president who questioned whether the musket nest was even in force Article 5 of the Treaty. It is clear that if you have an American president who questions Article 5 of the NATO Treaty at the Musketeer's Nest, then we are at a place where the NATO Alliance is dead. After all, the German Chancellor did a great deal to say at that time that we in Europe must be able to deal with some security policy interests ourselves, as we can no longer count on the Americans. We can now welcome the fact that an American President has arrived, who has also said to Putin that he is prepared to defend every inch of Europe. That is a good thing, but there is also an expectation that we should be able to do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155340	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155341	But we could also choose to engage in NATO so much that anyone who may be elected President of the United States can see that Europeans want to, among other things. by meeting the 2-percent objective. And NATO is more than the United States. NATO is also Canada, Great Britain, Norway, Iceland and Turkey, in other words many countries which are not part of the European Union but which, of course, create a completely different muscle force, which Mr. Jens Rohde actually confirmed before when he said that all the countries of the European Union are small countries, and that is precisely why we need both the British and the Americans in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155419	And I fully agree with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt i. However, it is also the case that, especially since 2003, there has been a very strong development in European defence, foreign and security policy work, which I do not think it is appropriate for us to be outside the Community either from the point of view of solidarity or from the point of view of our own interests. As long as this cooperation is deeply integrated into some joint agreements and declarations with NATO about who is carrying out certain tasks, I see it as a complementary function and not as a contradiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155502	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155505	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde, if only to be someone who speaks frankly and openly about this debate. Well, I think there is a striking absence of those who are part of what one might call the yes side here in the Folketing. Apparently, they're not taking the floor at all. Apparently, this referendum is not important enough to get involved. But thank you, sir. Jens Rohde to do it anyway. The question is as follows: do we believe in what I understand Mr. Jens Rohde is doing what is about an EU army? In other words, we believe that, on behalf of, among others, the European Union. Denmark can provide just a grain of security and security for the Danish population? I have to say no. After all, the European Union is a joke in terms of defence cooperation. With regard to the countries that are actually contributing to the Ukrainian side against the Russians, it has to be said that those EU countries are very, very small compared to the United States and England. Therefore, I would like to hear Mr. Jens Rohde's assessment: Can you really believe that the European Union will be able to defend itself at any time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155613	I have, but it takes will to do so. It's not something that comes on its own. I think that the Danish People's Party is doing a little what I have very, very often discussed with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in both radio programmes and from the platform. So, there is a slight tendency in the Danish People's Party that you lighten your legs up the community and then say that it smells. Because if the European Union is a joke today in terms of being a security policy guarantor, let us agree to the premise that Mr. Peter Skaarup is running for the job. Shouldn't you do something about the problem? Why not do something about the system failures of European cooperation that make there are challenges democratically, that there are challenges, in terms of what we are capable of security and foreign policy, and that there are many other challenges? I mean, they're based on system failures. And it is strange that we cannot have the discussion where we say: then let us do something about the system errors and then get it changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155723	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155724	I certainly believe that this is what the yes side believes in and will try in this referendum, in other words to correct some system errors. I just don't think it's being seen as credible by the Danish people at all, which is necessary to correct these system failures. Because how do we fix those system failures? It is not about to contribute 2%. in the case of countries. It is contributing much more. Is there a will and a belief that this can actually be done? Can we afford that? Can we do that? No, we can't. We need to continue to have the United States and, by the way, England in a central role. That is why the European Union is a joke in the field of defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155803	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155804	There is, of course, an economic aspect to this issue, and it is also heading towards the development of a European defence market. We would actually have a great deal of pleasure in being able to complement each other so that we do not make some stupid overlap where we do not get the best out of our economy. That is such an economic aspect of this matter. But, quite frankly, there's no way around it, sir. Peter Skaarup, in view of the fact that we, as Europeans, need to look more closely at what benefits our common security policy interests. We live on the same continent, and that is why we share the same fate, and that is why we need to do things together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155846	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde, there are no more brief comments to the rapporteur. Then there is another rapporteur who has asked to speak, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510155856	Thank you. After all, it's a pleasure to stand on the platform for Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde, as opposed to many other tones of pure EU flags, I was about to say. For Mr. Jens Rohde is not about Denmark, it's about the community. I think that others would say so if they were asked outside of the quotation, and then someone changes their mind without being able to explain why, other than by the world changing; despite the fact that what we are going to vote on on 1 June has basically nothing to do with the situation in Ukraine. Putin doesn't care if we have our reservations or not. On the other hand, he may be able to benefit from the divisiveness of the Danish people in the run-up to the referendum. When I take the floor today, it is not because we in the New Citizens' Party are against a referendum. We actually love referendums, and we think that we should ask the Danish people much more often and much more about the government, which says that we should ask the Danes, and when it comes to the matter, the Danes will have to wait because there is a parliamentary election. We are happy to ask the Danes, but we think it should be done in a proper way and we think that we should be honest. That's why I'm so happy to be in the tail of Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde, who, as I said, is tone-free EU flags. For what has happened in this process? Well, it has happened that we started the period with the wording of a ballot paper that was completely on the moon, in relation to what one is we are going to vote on. There was no mention of the European Union, and there was no mention of defence reserve. This was then adjusted to get the original wording and to see something about the European Union and defence reservations in its tail. So far, so good. Then we find ourselves in a situation in which many of us are pleased that, with our reservations, we have a safeguard against the slippery slope that the European Union is; a slippery slope that is quite obvious and becomes even more obvious when Ursula von der Leyen and Macron earlier announce clearly that they want to abolish the right of veto, that they want to move to majority voting. We have that protection today; and if that is what the EU-enthusiastic parties and the government have chosen to say: yes, yes, we are putting that into the bill. This was done in the comments, and the question is: is it binding? Will politicians in the future be bound by it when it is just in the comments? Or do we have a real risk that if we abolish the defence reserve on 1 June, a majority in the Folketing will be able to say: all right, we support the removal of the right of veto. Thus we lose the voice that all the EU-enthusiastic parties say is so important to have. You're not saying why it's important to have it, sir. Jens Rohde, and thank you for that. They talk a lot about what we shouldn't have. I have heard a lot about what tasks we are not going to solve, which is what we can say no to if the Danes vote yes on 1 June. I have not heard much about what the EU-enthusiastic parties want. Which of the seven ongoing EU missions, six of which are in Africa, should Danish soldiers be sent to? We haven't heard much about that. What is it that is of Danish interest in Africa that makes it reasonable and timely and responsible to send Danish men and women out on these missions? And yes, yes, we can say no; but we also know that there is a large majority today who want to send out Danish soldiers, also on missions in Africa, and also without it being under EU flags. So what the Danes can expect are several Danish soldiers sent out on missions far away, probably on the African continent, and probably to care for French interests. When it does not come out so much and when the EU-enthusiastic parties get away with not talking loudly about it here and are not confronted with it, it's partly because this election campaign comes in the middle of a situation where Ukraine fills incredibly much in the media and where the Danes in their private economy are hit by rising prices, by the prospect of falling house prices, by falling stock prices etc. So the Danes are pinned on the wallet, the media are filled with the war in Ukraine, and that means that the profits to find out what is bogus and what is the facts of this debate are drowning because in the middle of a war you want a referendum. And I have heard that the government and the Social Democrats say that after 24 February the world and Europe have changed and, yes, Europe has changed. However, I have also heard both the government and the Social Democrats say that it makes no difference to Putin, and it does not make any difference to Ukraine in the situation they are in now, whether we have our defence reserve or not. This means that we recognise that the Danes are being held hostage in a terrible situation in Ukraine. The Danes are forced to respond to something that is enormously far-reaching in a situation where the media are filled with stories about the terrible situation in Ukraine. If it hadn't been so important, you didn't have to talk about why this is bad timing; but it's important because we can be absolutely sure that if the Danes vote no on 1 June, the EU-enthusiastic parties will have the majority in the Danish Parliament to abolish our reservations and ask the Danes again. Any doubt that votes no and the majority for no will be challenged by the EU-enthusiastic parties. If you are in doubt and you vote yes, and that will be a yes, if we abolish our defence reserve, then it will be final and we will never get it back. And that is what one has to put oneself behind the ear when one votes on 1 June, and that is why it would have been so much more reasonable and honest if, on the one hand, it had ensured that the legal basis and the text on the ballot were understood, and, on the other hand, that such an election campaign had been put up for a period of referendum at a time when we had not just come out of the corona's claws, when the media were not filled with the situation in Ukraine, and where in fact we risk taking the Danes hostage in this case. That is why I am speaking. I am glad that there are politicians in the Danish Parliament both on the 'no' side and on the 'yes' side who tone purely EU flags or purely formbrog, but I think it is a little hassle when there are politicians who go and put it that this is not really what we are voting on here and that we are talking about what you can be against, rather than saying what you really want if you abolish the defence reserve. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510160607	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. The next to speak is the Foreign Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510160617	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on European Affairs for the report and good committee work that has been carried out both quickly and effectively. We now have a solid basis for the referendum on 1 June. July 1 will be a very important day, a milestone, for Denmark. We must remember what the referendum is really about: the new reality that we in Europe are in and on which we have to deal with whether we want it or not. There was a Europe before and there is a Europe after Putin's attack on Ukraine; we are facing a threat picture in Europe that has fundamentally changed. Putin's attack on Ukraine is an attack on everything, everything that we in Europe and the West stand for, our democracy, our Western values, and today Denmark is the only EU country outside the EU's defence cooperation. It is not in our interests, it is not for division or alone, it is for unity, not for reservations. That the time is for unity is a realization that we are not alone in Denmark. Both Sweden and Finland are already participating in EU defence cooperation; they are now considering joining NATO. Norway, which is a member of NATO but not of the EU, participates in parts of EU cooperation. In short, we come together in the West, in Europe, in the North. We are doing away with the defence reserve, which gives us an historic opportunity for reinforced Nordic cooperation in the field of security and defence. Then we can cooperate more closely in the Nordic region on security in our own region, both through the European Union and NATO, and the European Union and NATO complement each other. Our most important NATO partner, the United States, is not hiding their desire that we in Europe take greater responsibility for the security of our neighbourhoods. We do, among other things. through stronger EU cooperation on defence and security. A strengthened Europe will give even more muscle to transatlantic cooperation, and it will also strengthen NATO. These are important and, moreover, very serious reasons why Denmark must now fully enter into European cooperation in the field of security and defence and, after 29 years, put the defence reserve behind us. The time has come to take more responsibility for Denmark and for Europe. Thank you for the debate. This must now apply to the debate with the Danes, so that on a fully informed basis we can go out and take the vote on 1 June. I look forward to that debate and I am sure that we will make a good and sensible decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510160907	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are a number of brief remarks, and the first one is for Mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510160913	Thank you. Perhaps I had too much hope in the Minister's speech, because I had imagined that at this point we would know what it means if we were to abolish the reservation, that is, what we are going to do. There are, of course, a number of actions that are existing, for example. There's one around Libya. Are we gonna be in it? I note that Germany has just decided to withdraw from it, that is to say out of the European Union mission and have a reservation, and their reason is that, in the light of the untenable behaviour of individual Libyan coastguards against refugees and migrants and NGOs, the training of the Libyan Coast Guard by German soldiers cannot be defended at the moment. Is that the mission we're going to take if it's a yes on June 1st? Are we supposed to replace the Germans when the Germans go out because they cannot defend it? Shall we go in? Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161017	No, what it's all about, sir. Søren Søndergaard, is that if we abolish the defence reserve, we have the opportunity to decide for ourselves whether or not we want to take part in a mission. I was last week, Thursday and Friday, in Bosnia, where I visited, among others. the EU military-led operation in a country where there were horrors and genocide in the 1990s, which cost the lives of more than 100,000 people, a country in which Russia is blowing to the fire of separatist and nationalist Serbs, but also a country in which the EU countries and also Norway and Switzerland and others outside the EU are contributing to an EU military-led operation to ensure stability. It could be something like this where one could discuss whether Denmark should take co-responsibility to ensure that we do not again have a tragedy in the Balkans. That could be an example. We do not have that option today because we have a defence reserve. We will have that opportunity if we choose to abolish the defence reserve on 1 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161111	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161113	It was then where TV could bring an interview with someone on the spot, a local who said they didn't so much for those EU soldiers; they sat in the camp and drank coffee. But all right, leave it alone. Why don't you answer the question? The question was quite clear: should Denmark be involved in the Libya action? How many of the actions in Africa, former French colonies, should Denmark be involved? I mean, you've had years to see if you want to be a part of it and to think about it. Wasn't it time for the referendum to lift the veil? Which of the actions in Africa should we be involved in?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161151	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, I also answered: Denmark will be able to make a decision if we want to be in this Parliament. What is so remarkable is that the Enhedslisten is very concerned about how we get out of NATO, about how we have a reservation as the only European country. At a time when Russia and Putin have attacked a sovereign European country, at a time when security policy has come back in Europe in a way that we have not seen before, at a time when all countries are coming together together, the answer from the Enhedslisten is that we must stand outside communities. So that's not the answer from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161223	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161227	Thank you. Then I have to ask the Minister whether the way one stands outside the community is helping to send weapons down to the legitimate struggle of the Ukrainian Government. It is a question of whether we stand outside the community by supporting in relation to sanctions, by providing relief and civil reconstruction services, by contributing to things that we contribute to and to which the Enhedslisten contributes, and which have nothing whatsoever to do with the defence reserve. In other words, if this is the rhetoric in which the Minister is going, I think it is going to be a little dubious. But what I would like to ask the Minister is that we now had the debate here at second reading. What is it that makes the government not willing to write a guarantee on the referendum into the legislative text so that it becomes legally binding? I agree that there may be good reasons to include it in the comments, but why not give the full guarantee? What's keeping the government from doing that? What is the argument against writing it into the text of the law? I would really like to hear the Minister's comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161321	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161323	A political promise is a political promise, whether it is in the legislative notes or in the legislative text. In 1993, when we adopted the four reservations in a referendum, the legislation at that time had also written a political promise of a referendum in the notes to the law. 29 years later, we are holding a referendum. And if that very hypothetical situation should arise in 10, 20, 30 or 50 years, then a political promise has been made of a referendum, which is stated in the legislative notes. So that will happen in the future too. So it's basically very simple. I really think it is a pity that, in such a serious situation where we are discussing Europe's security, what Enhedslisten is concerned about whether a political promise is contained in some comments on the bill or in the legislative proposal, knowing that the political promise that we made 29 years ago also holds true today. How about we look together at how we can contribute to European security? I would really like to understand Enhedslisten. If there was an opportunity for Denmark to participate in military stabilisation in e.g. Bosnia, for Mr. Søren Søndergaard rightly points out that soldiers are needed, why is it that Enhedslisten believes that Denmark should not be able to do so if it were in our interest?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161430	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161431	Yes, how can it be that the government has refused to contribute, for example? demining in Bosnia when the Enhedslisten has proposed it? It's a political choice. That is why it has nothing to do with the defence reserve. Of course we can contribute to those actions. However, I do not think that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will answer the question. I agree that it will be included in the comments, because there is clearly the difference between the current reservation and the fact that it is written in as a protocol in the Treaty. After all, it will disappear if the unhappy happens that we abolish the defence reserve. But what is the argument for not writing it in? Well, isn't there time for the lawyers to write it into the bill? What is the reason for this? I just find it hard to understand if it guarantees you what the reason is for not doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161509	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161510	I repeat it again for Mr. Peder Hvelplund, and the report by the Committee on European Affairs also says that a political commitment is the same, whether it be in the comments or in the legislative proposal. But I really thought it was quite important to clarify this. In other words, what the Enhedslisten says is that, although there are good reasons why we should perhaps send more soldiers to Bosnia to ensure that there is no new genocide there, one will then predestinate the possibility of doing so, because it happens in an EU framework and not in a different framework. I do not think that is to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161543	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161548	Thank you. We know from the government that it is 235 acts Denmark has had to say no to because of the reservation, but so far the Minister can only mention, were they two areas against the Enhedslisten? There are still 233 areas that we don't really know what the government wants to do, I understand. When the EU-enthusiastic majority in here sends Danish troops on an EU mission, it might be nice to know if it is this set of rules, the European Union Concept for Military Command and Control, which is the basis for the operations, for example. in Mali or Bosnia or Somalia, the Sahel, or where are there hot dreams of sending Danish soldiers on the EU's mandate? Are these the rules that apply?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161637	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161638	It is the case that it is entirely the Folketing that decides. Whether we send a mission in NATO context, in the UN context, or if we do not have a reservation, an EU-led military operation, it is the Folketing that decides. This will be the case after the vote on the defence reserve has been taken. Then I'll ask Mr. Morten Messerschmidt about something: How can it be that the Danish People's Party believes that Denmark should be the only country around the Baltic Sea, which may soon be in danger of being left out of the communities of the other countries? We have a situation where Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Germany are fully involved in European defence cooperation, and so are Finland and Sweden, and Finland and Sweden are discussing whether they should be part of NATO. If they join NATO, Denmark will be the only country around the Baltic Sea bordering Russia that has not followed both EU and NATO defence cooperation at a time when security is under threat. Why do we have to stand there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161732	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161734	It is true, as the Foreign Minister says, that it is the Folketing that decides whether to join a mission, whether it be NATO or the European Union, etc. What is interesting is what then happens. When the Danish Parliament has said that NATO is now taking over, there is a military command in NATO which then decides when the Danish aircraft will be on the wings, when the Danish army will be going to war, when a Danish frigate will be in play, etc. What I am asking is whether the same applies in the European Union. When you in the EU-enthusiastic parties have sent one mission of Danish soldiers down to EU wars, is this the set of rules that applies to the military command of our troops under an EU general?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161809	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161811	Firstly, we decide our own mandate for the forces we send out. Secondly, I did not get an answer. What I have to interpret is that sir... Morten Messerschmidt and Dansk Folkeparti actually at a time when our security is challenged by Putin's aggression against Ukraine, believe that Denmark must stand alone outside the community in which the other countries are involved, and which can help make it possible for us from Denmark to contribute to responsibility for our own security and the security of Europe. There the government therefore believes that it is time for us to take the debate now and also participate fully and fully in European cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161846	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161851	It is rare that I have heard someone talk so negatively about the Danish defence and about the contributions we have made in recent years. As I understand it, Denmark is one of the countries in relation to the population that has actually contributed most to the most actions, including some that I do not like. But we have been there every single time, and if there have been Americans or others who have called, we have been there. How can it be to be outside the community when you send people over and over again, so that the military simply uses all the resources they have and must say no, for example. When the UN calls and asks if we can have someone for the peacekeeping forces? I don't quite remember, but I think it's a small two-digit number of people we deliver to the peacekeeping forces. Is it being outside the community? Is it buying the free ticket, as a radical mentioned the other day? I simply do not understand that. We deliver more than everyone else per year. citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510161951	I don't know if they were party friends, sir. Christian Juhl referred to. At no time have I spoken negatively about the envoy of Danish soldiers. On the contrary, I am proud of the difference and effort that Danish soldiers make around the world and have done over the years. And it must also be said that it is actually a little strange that one of the things that can be seen, and now I would like to return to the military peacekeeping operation that the European Union has in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is a peacekeeping operation that helps prevent new unrest breaking out that could lead to the worst ethnic clashes and genocide in the worst case, is that Denmark, as the only country, is not able to participate if we wanted to, because we have a defence reserve. I would like to understand why Enhedslisten believes that we should be prevented from participating in an important peacekeeping operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162040	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162043	This is a very thoughtful example, but just try to hear: there has never been a situation where Denmark has had to say no, because there are organizations and wars enough for everyone, as Peter Viggo Jakobsen said the other day. In Mali, at least four contractors acted out there, and Denmark even participated with management and everything. But we also took part in actions in which we should not have participated, and I would like to ask: when the EU is making scandals, for example. in the Central African Republic, where soldiers have been trained, who are now part of the Wagner Group, which is, of course, the most terrible instrument to be used in war, are these actions to be carried out? Is that what we're supposed to be doing, because we know that? We know of these 14 actions, and there is nothing to shout for; there are violations of both human rights and of civilians, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162138	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162140	Well, I'd like to go to sir. Christian Juhl repeats, as I have said to others before Enhedslisten, that this is, of course, about us having an opportunity to participate if it is the case that we abolish the defence reserve. Then it is up to the Folketing to look at what is in Danish interest and how we can contribute to creating a safer and safer Denmark and Europe in a situation where Russia has attacked a sovereign European country and where we have a land war on European soil that we have not seen like since World War II. And what is the first, the countries that are being attacked, including Ukraine, but also Georgia and Moldova, do what are they doing? They seek closer cooperation with the European Union because they want greater security. We can contribute there if we abolish the defence reserve, and I still cannot understand why Enhedslisten will not be a part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162222	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162226	Thank you. The Prime Minister of the country said to the DR on 7 March, and I quote: "For me as the Prime Minister of the country, it is more of a value decision that Denmark should now be part of the EU and defence cooperation - without reservation. It is, first and foremost, a value decision. Does the Minister share that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162249	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162251	So the defence reservation isn't about security. It is simply a signal, that is to say, that you have to send a signal. So what is the real reason why we have to vote on this? Is it because the government wants to send a signal now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162309	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162310	It's also because the government wants to send a signal. It is also primarily about where we belong. And as I mentioned earlier, we can be in a situation in a moment. There are countries bordering Russia, around the Baltic Sea, Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Germany. That is the region we are part of and where there is tension. They may all be fully involved in NATO and the European Union if Finland and Sweden choose to go that way. Denmark will be the only country which, in such a situation, will be outside the scope of European cooperation in the field of security and defence. We don't think we should. We think we should be with the others at a time when our security is under threat.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162347	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162352	Thank you. I wondered a little like many others when the question came out, why there was nothing about what we were going to vote on, that is, the EU defence reserve, on that issue. I was wondering, and I sort of bought the story that it was just a little rhetoric and semantics until I found the report from 2019 which clearly explains that if you want to ask the Danes, and it is broad on the political spectrum whether they want to abolish the EU defence reserve, well, they actually vote broadly and say no to it, but if you ask if they want Danish participation in European defence and security cooperation, then they would like to vote yes. So my question is, has the Foreign Minister or anyone from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs been aware of that report?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162439	I don't know what kind of report this is, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen refers to, but what I would like to emphasise is that when we vote on 1 June, we vote on whether Denmark should participate fully in European cooperation in the field of defence and security. In order to do so, it is clear that we will then have to get rid of our defence reserve, and we will do so in a referendum. In other words, when we ask the question as it stands, that is what we have to decide, namely whether we want to participate fully in defence cooperation, and in order to do so we must vote for the defence reserve. That is why the long question contains the whole essence of what we are going to vote on. I am very much looking forward to a debate and I really hope that we will have a debate on a factual basis so that we can decide where Denmark belongs and how we can contribute together to strengthening European security. Here I think Denmark can make an important difference with the other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162538	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pernille Vermund... sorry, there is a follow-up question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162544	Thank you. But the Minister for Foreign Affairs must admit that it is fantastic and striking that simply by changing how a proposal is to be produced, one can actually move from the absence of a majority to a majority. Could it have something to do with that, for example. The voters of the Social Democratic Party are actually moving from 34 per cent. For the voters of the Left it is from 42 per cent to 59 per cent. As much as 68 per cent, who would argue for it if it were about Danish participation? So that's a funny question. So I would like a written reply from the Ministry on whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs or anyone from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been aware of this report.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162625	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen can simply ask a written question and get a written answer. Well, I actually think it will suit everyone, including Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, if it is the case that one is confident that the Danes, who will vote on 1 June, will be able to decide whether or not to remove the defence reserve. I am quite sure that we will have a good and objective debate. I hope that new citizens will also be involved in this. I myself have participated in several debates with New Citizens where we have had a good debate. I think the most important question here is whether Denmark should stand alone or we should be with the others at a time when our security in Europe is under threat.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162701	Thank you. The next questioner is now Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162704	Thank you. We have faith in the Danes, but the question is whether the Danes have faith in the politicians and in the government. And when you have a referendum on a question where you actually promise the Danes one and then, when you have to draft the law, write something else. You don't write into the text of the law that we have a protection and maintain a guard against abolishing the right of veto. The Minister then says in the platform: 'Well, a political promise is a political promise'. Yes, yes, in the most ideal of all worlds it would be fine to say, but I expect the Minister will remember Poul Nyrup Rasmussen's promise of the post-retirement wage in the late 1990s. I also believe that the Minister remembers Poul Schlüter's statement: the service is dead when we vote yes on Thursday. And then there was the promise from Lars Løkke Rasmussen in 2015 that we should not have a common European asylum policy until the sun burns out. It has not been so long since we had to change our asylum policy precisely because of Europe. So I just have to ask the Minister: can the Minister not understand if the Danes have mistrust of politicians; if the Danes do not quite believe that a political promise is a political promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162820	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162822	Now Mrs Pernille Vermund asks about a number of other matters. I can only note that when we made legislation in 1993 and voted on the defence reserve and the other reservations, we wrote in the comments that if it had to be amended, it would have to be done in a referendum. That is the referendum we have here on 1 June, 29 years later. Now there is also a political promise in the comments to the bill, and if there is a situation as described, that you will move to majority voting or make a supranational EU army, then it is clear that there will be a referendum. It is a political promise which also holds true in 10, 20, 30 years. It doesn't change whether it's in the comments to the bill or in the law itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162903	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162905	However, we agree that if it is in the law and not just in the comments, it goes beyond being a political promise to be bound by law, and then you have to change the law if you are going to go against it. So I have to say: a political promise is not a political promise. There are numerous examples, including in the EU context, where we have spoken about maternity rules, where we have spoken about social benefits for foreigners and, as in the specific example I mentioned, we were recently presented with a legislative proposal to amend the asylum rules because there is an EU policy that goes against what Denmark has adopted. So frankly, the Minister does not understand that the Danes are sceptical; that the Danes do not believe that a political promise is a political promise?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162949	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510162951	I would like to say to Mrs Pernille Vermund that I always think it is important to be sceptical and to debate on an enlightened basis. And I also understand that the Danes are deeply concerned about how we strengthen our communities at a time when our security is threatened on European soil with Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Each of us, as a country, must ask ourselves what we are asking ourselves in Sweden and Finland at the moment; that is what we are asking ourselves in Germany: what can we do to help us live more safely and avoid aggression against us? And that is where full participation in NATO and EU cooperation is part of the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163026	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163031	Thank you so much. I actually wanted to ask the Minister something. For example, the Minister has mentioned Bosnia several times now. Who originally intervened in Bosnia and ensured peace?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163041	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163043	This is a very important question. It is true that NATO had a special role in Bosnia, also in ensuring peace, including, of course, the Americans. But at some point, this NATO-led operation is going to become an EU-led operation, and then Denmark has to withdraw from it. And I can guarantee that now I was there on Thursday and Friday that just below the surface in Bosnia the division is lurking. It is a country where hundreds of thousands of people died in the 1990s because of terrible genocide and civil war. We could make a contribution here if we wanted to, but that would require us to get rid of the defence reserve. Then we will be able to decide whether we can contribute. I also think it is a little absurd that countries that are not even members of the European Union, for example. Norway and Switzerland, today help to create security in Bosnia. I simply cannot understand how New Citizens cannot support the possibility of looking at what is in Danish interest in this Parliament. And if you think it is in Danish interest, then you can also choose to make contributions, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163142	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163144	It is quite true that it was NATO that ensured peace in the Balkans and then took over the European Union. Let us just be completely honest: it hasn't gone very well since then. So it is just to say, as has also been said from the platform in the past, that the EU generally does not have a great deal of success in the operations they have around them. But I would actually like to ask the Foreign Minister something, since the Foreign Minister recognizes that NATO ensured peace in Bosnia afterwards that the European Union took over it and that it has not gone well since then: what are some EU missions that are currently under way in which the Minister specifically believes Denmark should take part? The Minister has not answered that question in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163223	It is because the whole point of the defence reserve discussion and the abolition is that we will have the opportunity to decide for ourselves afterwards what we will participate in; what is in Danish interest. I say that what I see down in Bosnia is that it is in our interest that the Balkans do not break the same. Here there is an EU-led military operation in which countries outside the EU also participate, for example. Norway and Switzerland, as I mentioned, and also other countries. It is a place where we have an interest in contributing in different ways. It could also be in the future, for example. Ukraine, if there is to be a peacekeeping EU-led force. It may also be a place where we can have an interest in participating.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163256	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163301	Thank you, President. I think it is quite interesting that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is using some of the arguments that are being used today. I note, for example, the answer that came to my colleague here next to me a moment ago. It was important that Denmark was above all not alone. I think it sounds awfully hollow if it is to be used as an argument for the Danes to go down and abolish the Danish defence reserve here on 1 June. For what are these places Denmark has stood alone? Perhaps we could ask the Minister to list this, just like the three largest places, the three most important missions, where Denmark has stood alone. I would like a list of them, for example, where it has not been a situation where we have been able to get all our security and peace-keeping initiatives and defence policy, etc. implemented in cooperation with inter alia: other UN member states, and in particular through our excellent NATO cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163400	I think sir... Hans Kristian Skibby may have misunderstood what has been said. It is the case that today 22 NATO countries are also members of the European Union. Of the 22, Denmark is the only NATO member and EU member outside EU defence cooperation. So we stand alone. If we say yes to abolishing the defence reserve on 1 June, we can participate with the others, including NATO and EU countries, among others. the Baltic countries, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, and Poland, which, like us, are concerned with a strong transatlantic alliance and are concerned that we also contribute more to European security. That is why we also need to get rid of the defence reserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163438	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163440	In other words, the Minister replied very clearly to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that the great motivation was that it was important that Denmark was not alone. So the Minister must also explain here in front of the Danish Parliament what it is in some places Denmark has stood alone. I just find it very difficult to find the long list with a string of quotations which the Minister apparently believes should be a legitimate reason to decide to remove the Danish defence reserve. We have a UN regime, we have NATO cooperation and Denmark is involved in numerous missions, and that is also what has made us stand strongly in our own internal security and defence policy line.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163524	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163525	To Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, I would say that Denmark is the only country to have an EU defence reserve. That leaves us alone with that defence reserve. No other countries have. It makes us unique. But it also means that, if we choose to abolish it on 1 June, we can contribute fully with our neighbouring countries and European allies even with our American allies. That's actually how it is, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby states that even the United States participates in an EU defence cooperation project on military mobility in Europe, where Denmark cannot participate because of our defence reserve. We think that's a little silly. We would like to have the opportunity to choose what is in Danish interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163600	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163604	I know that has not caused any problems since 1993. All of a sudden it does now. I certainly haven't heard of that. I don't think the Minister has either. But I would just like to return to the debate that is whether you write it into the legal basis or whether you just write it in the comments. And I cannot understand it at all when there is this controversy and the Minister is so convinced that we will indeed have a referendum, why we will not just do so. There is now, I think, justified criticism of the fact that it is not written into the legal basis. That does not apply in legal terms. The Minister, and that is what my question refers to some time ago in this Question Time, referred to the fact that in 1993 it was just there. But it was a completely different matter. In other words, it was a national compromise reached by seven parties and, yes, it was there. However, it was a national compromise which, quite simply, cannot be compared to this at all. Does the Minister not agree that it was a majority who made a national compromise in 1993 after the vote on the Maastricht Treaty in 1992 and where we had the four reservations?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163705	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163709	No, I do not think I agree with that, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. We also have a national compromise on European security and Danish security, which among other things. Makes us increase our defense spending to 2%. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has put into this report. And when we are going to vote here, it will also be important to see that a majority of the parties, I assume, agree with the government that we are making a political promise that if there are any changes, for example. that defence should become supranational and move to majority voting or there should be an EU army, then there should be a new referendum in Denmark. It is a political promise. Whether it is in the comments or in the legislative text, it is a political promise that I am convinced that the parties will keep, just as a political promise was made 29 years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163800	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163801	Well, the minister is on thin ice. Now it does not even say in the remarks that it is a majority, I understand from the Minister. It doesn't. And I really think the Minister is moving into a huge mess. Why not just say yes and write it into the legal basis, so it is legally valid when there is that criticism, instead of constantly weave and say it is in the comments? And then reference is made to the national compromise between many parties in 1993. It doesn't hold water, Minister. But my last question is, and I would very much like a clear answer: why on earth do you not just write it into the legal basis? Because then the rest of us will have to sit there and say: OK, it's legally viable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163835	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163837	That is what I have said on several occasions because a political promise is no more legal than being in the legislative notes or in the legislative text. A political promise is a political promise, and I certainly assume that all parties that make that promise intend to keep, just as they did 29 years ago when they last made a political promise. And then I find it interesting that some will discuss the process where others will discuss content. I find it interesting to know why the Danish People's Party will not actually be able to give Denmark an opportunity to actively contribute to European security at a time when there is war in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163912	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163918	I have to ask the Foreign Minister about the creation of this referendum. It is true that the government has changed direction in relation to the content of the question presented to the Danes. The first question was, of course, formulated by the government. We were all aware of this and I would like to know whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister himself were in that formulation and accepted that wording himself, and I would also like to know if there were more options for government ministers in connection with the choice of the wording for which the Danes had to be asked?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510163958	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164000	Sir. Peter Skaarup, what we are going to vote on is whether Denmark should participate fully in the cooperation on European security and defence, and then there was a criticism of the issue raised by some from the 'no' side. The government is happy to do so, because we think it is very important that we use the time until 1 June to have a good, objective and informative debate so that the Danes can take a position on an enlightened basis on 1 June. Our position is clear. We want us not to be left alone with a defence reserve in Europe. We want us to be with the other European countries. We can also see that the United States, our main partner, expects Europe to shoulder greater responsibility for its own security. We have a war in Europe that began on 24 February and that has fundamentally changed the security picture in Europe, and Denmark, like other countries, must ask itself what we can contribute to creating greater security, and one of these is to be fully involved in European cooperation on security and defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164055	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164057	I think it is a good thing that the Foreign Minister is available for us to ask questions here now. I also think it would be good if the questions we are asking were then answered. Because what the Secretary of State told me about here wasn't what I asked, so I'm gonna try again. A theme was formulated for the Danes to be asked for by the government. Was the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister aware of that theme and approved it, that is to say the theme, and were there more options, more themes, presented to the government ministers at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164131	What happens when you get a draft law is that it is the Foreign Minister who makes the bill and it refers to what we are voting on, namely whether we can participate in European cooperation in the field of security and defence. That, then, was the question. Then there was a 'no' criticism that it had to say that, in order to be able to participate, the defence reserve had to be abolished, which is why it was added to the text of the bill and also on the voting form. So it is a desire to respond to the 'no' side and focus on a proper and enlightened debate, and I hope Mr. Peter Skaarup will sign for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164208	Thank you very much to the Secretary of State. No one else has asked for the floor. As this is the case, we shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164218	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164249	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164311	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. In favour, 78 (S, V, SF, RV, KF, LA, FG, ALT and KD) voted against 20 (EL, DF, NB, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Lise Bech (UFG)), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164337	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate on the amendment and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164359	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (RV, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG) and Lise Bech (UFG)). In favour of 54 (V, RV, KF, DF, NB, LA, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Lise Bech (UFG), against 45 (S, SF, EL, FG, ALT and KD), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164437	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164449	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. In favour of voting 53 (V, RV, KF, DF, NB, LA, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Lise Bech (UFG)), against voting 45 (S, SF, EL, FG, ALT and KD), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed. It will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164514	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. That concludes the debate and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164532	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? That is not the case. The amendment has been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (V), joined by a minority (RV, KF, DF, NB, LA, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG) and Lise Bech (UFG)). A vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 53 (V, RV, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Lise Bech (UFG), against voting 44 (S, SF, EL, ALT and KD), abstentions 0. The amendment has been adopted. If we do not have a vote, I shall now consider Amendment No. 4 and 7, tabled and joined by the same minorities as adopted. They are adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3, 5 and 6 members of the committee? They are adopted. The vote will now be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party A vote can be taken. The vote is closed. In favour 19 (SF, EL, FG and ALT) voted against 80 (S, V, RV, KF, DF, NB, LA, KD, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Lise Bech (UFG)), abstained 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164701	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164716	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 of a minority (SF), elected by a majority (other committee), or on Amendment No 1. 3, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164853	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510164945	The debate is open. We shall begin by giving the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510165009	Thank you very much for that, President. The proposal here proposes that the so-called parenting requirement in the adoption legislation be abolished. The parenting requirement implies that the person wanted to be adopted must have been raised by the adoptive for three years before the age of 18. It is also proposed that this should be done as soon as possible and in such a way that a legislative proposal is put forward before the end of 2022. The proposal shall state the reasons on which it is based, inter alia: I would like to ask the Commission whether it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and if so, whether it is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and if so, whether it is prepared to accept them. has a strong parent-child relationship and would like to implement an adoption. The demands made in connection with an adoption, as also mentioned in the proposal, aim to create good adoption processes, but regardless of the good intentions behind the rules, I fully agree that situations may arise where the rules do not make sense to those who wish to implement the adoption, because the rules seem either unreasonable or incomprehensible. That is also why, some time ago, I asked my ministry to look into the possibilities of relaxing the regulation of adult adoption, because it may certainly be appropriate to look at whether the rules are as they should be. Work on possible relaxations has also revealed that it may not only be the requirement for upbringing that may seem unnecessary when we talk about the adoption of adults. In any case, there has also been criticism by citizens of the so-called cohabitation requirement which applies when adopting a marriage mate or spouse's child. That requirement too may seem unnecessarily paternal when we talk about the adoption of a now grown-up stepchild. According to the co-existence requirement, the adopted legal parents and the adopted adopter must have lived together for 21⁄2 years before an adoption can be allowed. And also the requirement for cohabitants and spouses to adopt together has created situations that may seem wrong. The reason for creating situations that may seem unnecessarily paternal is that there are no specific rules for the implementation of adult adoption. By and large, cases follow the same rules and practices as the adoption of children, regardless of the difference that is all else equal when the adoption concerns an adult who has an emotional but no longer a practical need for adoption. The legislation as it stands does not distinguish between the adoption of a child who needs protection and an adult who is able to make choices for his own life. This legal situation means that situations may arise where the adoption of an adult is refused, even if the implementation of an adoption seems reasonable. And, of course, when something seems wrong, one must always ask oneself whether there is still a good reason why things are as they are. This, of course, has also been an important part of the cover in my ministry. Traditionally, adoption is a tool to create a family for a child or to recognise that a family is established for the child. Adoption is basically in that optics a protection for a child. The question is whether something will happen by changing the way we look at adoption if we reserve the change to adult people, i.e. whether we erode the concept of adoption, as we naturally understand it, or whether we just create an additional tool adapted to the needs of the adult. We have been working for some time to change the rules on adult adoption, and that is why I am also fully prepared to call for discussions on possible solutions to situations that we may all agree on are somewhat incomprehensible. And I also think that such discussions should have a slightly broader focus than the one proposed in the motion for a resolution. As I said at the outset, situations which are less understandable can arise because of the requirement for cohabitation and the requirement for spouses and cohabitants to adopt together. I am therefore also thinking that it may be appropriate to look at those requirements when we discuss options for solutions. Any changes in my optics should be based on the fact that the requirements of an adult adoption must reflect the fact that they are adult people who are almost to know what is good for them and who also take into account that family-like ties are not only created until you are 18 years old, but can also arise later in life and have great value. Discussions should also include the fact that adult adoptions are not intended to ensure that the adult child is an adult caregiver because the child is an adult, but that they are intended to recognise the mutual emotional attachment of persons. The motion for a resolution here is based on the fact that the proposal will not lead to any more cases. However, it is now the case that changes often generate additional costs, especially when new opportunities are given to apply for something that is not possible to apply for today. There is really no reason to believe that things will be different here, and therefore it will also have to be part of our discussions how we can then find funding for the solutions we have to come up with. So, although we agree with the intentions behind the proposal, we believe that we should look wider than we do in the proposal; and then the issue of funding makes it quite fundamental that we can only meet the proposal in part by calling for discussions and not by voting in favour of a proposal where funding has not been pointed out so I shall look forward to it. And I would like to thank you in advance for the debate as it is going to be in this Chamber at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510165504	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510165508	Thank you. I would also like to sign up to the Minister for responding to the challenges that exist. This has come on the basis of a number of requests which I have received and in which the people behind it have also been present in committee. But when the Minister says that we do not vote in favour because of the funding, does the Minister not agree that people are seeking today, but are being refused because the legal situation in the adult sector, as the Minister said in his speech, is as it is today? So that's why you're looking, but you get rejected. So is it still a reason why the Minister will not vote in favour of this resolution today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510165556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510165558	Yes, that is it, because all those people who know the state of law today and do not seek and do not get rejected because they know that it makes no sense to seek because they do not meet one of the three requirements I have pointed out from the platform will, of course, be able to look for, and we will also see that some who then seek and even on the basis of the new rules that we might agree on by amending the legislation will be refused and there will be complaints. So, yes, there needs to be funding for additional activity here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510165620	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510165621	I should just like to point out that, according to the adoption law, it is possible to allow adoption even if the parenting requirement is not met. That is what it says, but it is not in principle because, as the Minister said, the legal situation in the field of adulthood is precisely that it is not allowed to do so. That's one side of the coin. Then I would like to hear about the future perspective, because I know that there are some people out there today following this debate, which has a great desire for this to be adopted. So what's the answer from the Minister to them? When can they expect that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510165656	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510165658	As I also said in my reply, this is indeed something we have been looking at for some time in the ministry, and that is why we are also relatively far in relation to being able to convene discussions. Then we will have to see how quickly we can agree on something in a majority and find the funding that is needed. I cannot stand here and anticipate the joys that we should agree and reach an agreement before we can see if we can do so. Legislation will then have to be drawn up and it will have to be put forward. So, of course, we will get into the upcoming Assembly before all the things that need to be put in place can be settled.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510165731	Thank you very much to the Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next and first rapporteur is Mrs Camilla Fabricius from the Socialist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510165741	Thank you, sir. President. I would like to thank the author of the motion for a resolution for putting forward a proposal in this Chamber which will deal with how to be adopted after the age of 18. I think that the outcome of listening to what the Minister is suggesting here, that we are being called for a debate to address this challenge, is a very sensible place to land. I would also like to say a few words about the proposal made by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, and I think it is interesting and exciting, and I also think it is important to have the address addressed. I myself have been brought to the attention of one of my party colleagues, Bjarne Laustsen, who has made a specific case in which a young girl had been a foster child with a family, with a mother, and she really wanted to be adopted by her mother after she had grown up. Because that's where she belonged, and it's, like the minister also describes it, this whole thing about what everyday life you have when you form relationships, even after you're 18 years old. And I do believe that all of us who have a family know that this relationship also exists after the age of 18. So, the fact that we can have a thorough discussion and have a look at what we need to do and, of course, also get funding covered, seems to me to be a sensible grip on this. So, once again, I would like to thank the author of the motion for a resolution for raising the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510165922	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510165926	Thank you to Mrs Camilla Fabricius for her speech. When the rapporteur says that we need to have a thorough discussion of this, I would like it to be a little more handheld, because I have a wish that this will be a reality for many of those who have just expressed that wish. Now Mrs Camilla Fabricius mentioned an example, but there are also, in fact, more, because they may also be children who may have been forcibly adopted, so that at the age of 18 they want to be adopted by their biological parents. There may actually be many examples in this. So I have to hear the Socialist rapporteur whether the Social Democratic Party will produce a report here, so that we are sure that action is taking place and so that, like those who are in that situation, we promise action.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170026	I think it makes sense to agree on a text that can point towards what the Minister is pointing to. I also tried to address in the speech that I think it is a good proposal and that it curbs some of the things that are going to happen to those who get into trouble, so that they can see themselves in a different way, and I think that the discussions that we have also had on a regular basis in committee have been on a wide-ranging basis, in relation to what are some of the issues you are facing, for example. have been placed in a foster family or have been given up for adoption or otherwise. So I think it makes sense that we in the committee are discussing a report which then also points towards what the Minister has handed down today, namely that we are having a discussion, finding the economy, and that we also ensure against the pitfalls that may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170122	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170124	I am positive about that. Now a lot has been said about the economy, and it is the case today that a lot of people have sought it, but have been refused. So what is the estimate in relation to the economics? In my optics there will still be applications, but then there has been a refusal, and so it will be forward-looking. So what are the financial costs of it? The rapporteur may be aware of this, as the rapporteur has a closer relationship with the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170202	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170203	In any case, I would like to say a clear 'yes' to the latter. I think I have a very close and good relationship with the Minister. I think we should take the concrete view of what it will cost in the discussions, because I have no idea of that. However, the rapporteur points out that we have now addressed the problems, and of course we have to resolve them, because this is about real people who have to live their lives, and I would like to acknowledge that, and I look forward to it being taken care of. So, once again, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170234	Thank you very much to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Maja Torp from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170242	I would like to start by signing on behalf of the Left for a very good proposal. Because the proposal that we are going to be discussing here helps to make it easier to be a Dane, and it alone is pleasing in itself. In the Left we want to legislate for the benefit of the Danes, and we do so, among other things. By abolishing the condition of three years' common address before the age of 18, legal persons in adoption proceedings shall be granted. In our opinion, it is only the individual person who knows how their lives are best lived, and this also applies when it comes to family constellations. It can be said very simply: The individual's own association with others is best handled and assessed by the individual himself. That is why we politicians are also expected to trust our citizens when it comes to matters of such a personal nature as adoption. It is the view of the Left that legislators are not better informed about defining when two people have a parent-child relationship that can justify adoption. Specifically, this means, for example, that if the child's father's new boyfriend has, for a number of years, had a relationship that has only become part of the child's life in his later teenage years, he will actually be worse off compared to obtaining adoption, and that is what the current parenting requirement is to do. There we are, of course, helping to tighten the ground so that an adoption can take place at the request of both parties. After all, it is not just stepparents and children of stepparents who are subject to the challenges of adoption. The prevention of adoption may also be liable to affect other persons who have a desire to adopt an adult person, as well as to be problematic for the child. There may also be some hereditary conditions here, which also benefit the child, which must be taken into account. There has been some talk about the funding of this proposal, but as far as we understand in the Left and as we see this proposal, it is not in itself a question of there being more applications, but just more applications being granted, and that is why it is not going to be more expensive as a starting point. I would also like to say that we in the Left embrace what the Minister and the Socialists are calling for, namely also to look at what else is of rules in this area and, of course, to see whether there are other criteria that do not make full sense. For the question of affiliation can of course be assessed in other ways than just by means of something that is quite quantitative. So in the Left we will not prevent the citizens from adapting to their own needs, and on that basis the Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170557	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ina Strøder-Schmidt from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170604	Thank you. In the SF we are in favour of abolishing the requirement for the three years of cohabitation before the 18th year of life, for you can easily create a close relationship after the 18th year of life, even without having lived together for 3 years. For example, it will. be the case in a situation where a boyfriend of a biological parent wants to adopt, but where it is not possible because he first entered the person who wants to be adopted, life after his 18th year of life. We therefore want the government to put forward a legislative proposal that abolishes that provision.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170638	Thank you very much to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Thorholm from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170653	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, outside the groups, for putting forward the proposal that the three-year rule for adoption before the 18th year should be amended so as to make it easier for adults to adopt. The Radical Left recognizes the desire for adoption, including among adults, among others. because of new family forms, but also because of the link between the adoptive and the adoptive. We agree that, as the rules are now, adults are prevented from being adopted, although we can also read that this should actually be possible under the law. However, we stress that, on the basis of a more modern family understanding, the legislation as it is now can seem unreasonable and incomprehensible to the individual, and that needs to be changed. We also hear that the Minister is willing to look at adjustments to the regulation of adult adoption and to some extent make it possible. And if this work points to the possibility of adult adoption, then we would really like to join in on it and we have heard that will happen this autumn. We will follow the work and see if it will achieve the desired results with regard to the legislation on adult adoption, as we attach great importance to this being an opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170829	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170832	Thank you. I can hear from the rapporteur of the Radicals that they also recognise that there are challenges to this, precisely that as an adult you cannot be adopted unless you have lived together for three years before the age of 18. I just need to hear to be absolutely sure whether the Radicals are also in on a story about it, so we have something in writing, and so we are sure that there will be action as well? Often and often you can talk a lot in this Parliament, without action taking place, so it's always good to have something in writing. I just need to know if the Radicals are in on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170908	We are clearly in favour of a report, because action must follow the attitude or attitude, right? So thank you for getting us to confirm that we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170921	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170923	Well, thank you. Then I look forward to the work of the committee. We also have an excellent committee secretary here in Parliament who is also listening to this debate and can help with a draft report if we are to have it corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510170944	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510171001	Thank you very much. Thank you to Members outside the groups for tabling the motion for a resolution here to lift the condition of three years of cohabitation before the 18th year for those who wish to be adopted. In the Conservative People's Party we recognise the issue in the resolution, which today means that if an adult enters, for example. a 17-year-old's life and later in life wants to adopt the then 17-year-old, then it is virtually impossible, that is, if the adoptive has only entered the child's life after the age of 15 and has not lived with the one who wants to be adopted. It does not really make sense for us to have the 3-year parenting requirement as a limitation if both parties want the adoption. That is why the Conservative People's Party will be voting in favour of the resolution here. We would very much like to be involved in drawing up a joint report on how we can sort of move forward with the work on this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510171112	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510171125	Much has been said about this proposal and it has been common sense throughout. What I always miss from the Minister is that when the Minister goes up and actually agrees with a motion for a resolution, he says: yes, we turn it into a legislative proposal. It's not like that, and it's not like that now. However, this is a proposal which deals with very rigid rules on adult adoption, which do not take much account of the fact that they are adults. It would be sensible to be included in this proposal, which relaxes the very strict rules that exist. Then there has been a little talk about funding. I do not have to make myself aware of whether it will cost something or not, but that is probably not the big amount. If, at last, it means something to the economy, then I think it is something you will be able to cope with, especially at a time when the government is very large in relation to the economy, and then I think you can find it if it is necessary to find money for financing. This does not seem to be the case in the comments on the draft law, but if necessary, it should be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510171239	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen for New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510171255	I shall also be very brief. A great deal has been said, very rightly, from this platform and, as one of the previous rapporteurs said, there is a great deal that is actually common sense. This proposal is also expressed in this way, so of course New Citizens support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510171315	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510171330	Thank you for that, President. I have looked forward very much today to the first reading of this proposal, which seeks to abolish the co-existence requirement which in practice means that you cannot be adopted by the person you consider to be your mother or father because you have not lived together for three years before the age of 18. Persons over the age of 18 may be adopted if the conditions for adoption under the adoption law are met. This is among other things. a condition for adoption that the person to be adopted is either wanted to be raised or has been raised by the adoptive as a starting point for 3 years before the age of 18. It is important for me to stress that this proposal has been made on the basis of the requests I have received and also on the basis of the pretext that we have had in committee. This is a real problem for real people. It may be that you want to be adopted by your mother's partner if you consider this to be a father, even if he did not come into your life until you were 18 years old. It may also be that you have never experienced support from your biological parents, but end up as an adult having a strong relationship with another adult who becomes like a parent to you. In these cases, there is no chance of ever being able to meet the requirement of three years of cohabitation before the person who wants to be adopted reaches the age of 18. Finally, one can also imagine that one has been forcibly adopted at birth, but as an adult, contact with its biological source resumes and could actually wish to become a legal child of one's biological parents again, but this will not be possible because the child has never lived with the biological parents unless the requirement of three years of co-life is abolished. Of course, there must be a common desire for adoption between the adopter and the adopter, and of course it must be the one who wants to be adopted. That's very reasonable. We do not believe that the legislator can or should define when two people have a parent-child relationship that can justify an adoption. I hope, therefore, that this will soon become a reality for those people who are also watching today and who have a dream about this. And I can hear from today's debate that it is just before you can be completely happy. I would like to thank all the parties that support this. I also very much agree with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, who says that it is unbelievable that you cannot just vote in favour, but always have to land it in a report. That's something I've always wondered about. And in relation to the economics mentioned by the Left, I also fully agree that this is about not getting your application approved, not being allowed to be adopted. Anyway, I don't want it to take us apart. At any rate, I am incredibly pleased that it all seems that there is support for it, and if we are to end up with a report, I will look forward to it. The best thing would be if we put forward a proposal in the Parliamentary Assembly that it was voted through, but there are often major challenges with which to do so. I do not know why it has to be the case that the rapporteurs, who sit and work in this area, cannot be conquered from time to time. It's about people you want to make a difference to. So I look forward to the forthcoming committee reading and will certainly keep the minister up on this, and then I hope that a good legislative proposal will be made. Sometimes you also have to be careful that you do not put too much into a legislative proposal. It might as well be that this matter, Minister, could be changed by a change of order, but it must be something I ask questions about in committee. For then it might be that we did not have to wait a long time for a legislative proposal, but that it could be changed by a change of order. However, thank you for today's debate. Thank you for all the good rapporteur speeches, in which you can see that there are challenges with the legislation we have today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510171736	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510171748	The debate is open and we will start by giving the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510171807	Thank you for that, President. It is true that the proposers of the motion for a resolution here want to oblige the government to legalise the right to care in Section 83 of the Services Act, so that it becomes a real right for older citizens who receive help under Section 83 of the Services Act, as the proposal states. The reason for the motion for a resolution is that the right to care is not explicitly enshrined in Section 83 of the Services Act and that sad individual cases are constantly being promoted in the media about care failure in the care of the elderly. Therefore, according to the proposers, care should be written into the Services Act as a right for older citizens to prevent caring failure. The authors also point out that the introduction of a genuine right of care would increase the obligation of the Elders' Inspectorate to react and act if there is a suspicion that citizens do not have the necessary care to which citizens are entitled. The government has great sympathy for the intentions behind the resolution, and the government also strongly supports the desire for more time for care in our care for the elderly. We fully agree with the proposers that there are challenges in Danish care for the elderly that require action, but we cannot support the fact that the solution to the challenge is to introduce individual adjustments to the current legislation, of which the proposal here is an example. On the other hand, it is the government's view that we should rethink the entire way in which the legislation on our care for the elderly is organised. It is very much about releasing time for more care, and this requires some fundamental changes. That is why we need a break with the current bureaucracy, with the overpower, with the back cover documentation, so that we can instead ensure more time for what is the core task, namely a dignified care and care for the elderly, and we need an elderly care where there is both more time and more confidence that employees can use their skills and their common sense for the benefit of the elderly. Only by thinking basically about legislation in the area of the elderly can we ensure the changes necessary to achieve the objective of care for the elderly, where all the elderly receive the care and care they need and so that they can safely meet their old age. That is why we in the government are working on an entirely new law on the elderly, and the Prime Minister's presentation of the work in New Year's speech was clear: we must have a short and precise law on the elderly, where values such as dignity, care, freedom of choice and self-determination must be the key words. It is also part of the work on a new law on the elderly to examine how simplification can be achieved, for example. the supervisory model in the area of older people, based on a few clear objectives: less bureaucracy, less paperwork, less time when employees are locked behind a screen away from the elderly. Work with the Older People's Act requires professional thoroughness and involvement of relevant actors, so that we get the very good and long-lasting solutions done, and this work is fortunately very well under way. In order to provide us with the best possible knowledge base for the preparation of the new Older Law, we are currently working on an inclusive process with an advisory panel and three expert groups of stakeholders, experts, employees, citizens and researchers, and in addition to this we are holding five regional summits during the spring, where citizens, relatives, employees, older members of the council and other interested parties can come up with their experiences and their proposals to create a dignified care for the elderly. We have held three of the meetings, and I should like to say that it is really exciting and very good input and observations that come from Danes all over the country. So, although I have great sympathy for the purpose of the proposal and basically agree with the premise that our care for the elderly is under pressure of time to care, I do not believe that individual small adjustments are sufficient to provide us with the care we want for the elderly. We must ensure that we keep our hands firmly under our welfare, as we have done in now three successive economic agreements and also subsequent financial laws with the Finance Law Parties, and then we must make sure that the bureaucracy in our care for the elderly is done more fundamentally, so that we have time for caring. As a small addition, and I know that the authors of the motions will be sorry about it, because we had the same discussion just before in the previous motion for a resolution, there is also the discussion that the proposals put forward should be financed, and regardless of the discussion about the extent of the obligations to the municipalities that were discussed last time, this resolution was tabled, so it must be said that the resolution is quite clear that the Elders' Supervisory Authority must have an increased duty to respond, and that will give some extra costs, and that is why we must have the funding when we put something forward for the Folketing. But let it be a parenthesis, and let me just say from this point of view that I absolutely do not reject any good ideas that can be used in the work on the new law on the elderly, and that I therefore also take on board any suggestions and considerations that might be put forward in connection with the motion for a resolution here, both in the debate in the Chamber, but also in the further reading of the committee, with me further in the work on the law on the elderly, and I look forward to both the committee procedure and the discussions with the parliamentary parties. Thank you for the floor, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510172336	Thank you very much. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510172338	Well, it seems quite incredible that the Minister is saying that you have sympathy for the proposal. I am also thinking that the Minister thinks that it should be on the spine that it should be the case that our elderly have the care they need. Thus, we have Section 83 of the Service Act, according to which the municipal council is obliged to offer personal care, practical assistance and food services at home to persons who, due to temporary or permanent reduced physical or mental capacity or special problems, cannot perform these tasks themselves. And then the proposal is that we also write care into that paragraph. Then you have a lot of excuses for not voting for it, including the fact that caring now also costs money. So empathy and concern for our older fellow citizens must be a matter of course. Unfortunately, it is just a matter of course that is not included in the legislation. I must also just say to the Minister now that the Minister is saying that there are relevant actors on the field that this proposal is also a proposal that has been proposed by the Elders case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510172444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510172444-2	Thank you. But the rapporteur really must hear me right here. That's not a lot of excuses. It is, of course, a fact that it is not enough if we are to have decent care for the elderly with security for the elderly, with time to care, with employees who can actually use their skills and where there is self-determination for the elderly. Then it is not enough to add a single word to existing legislation. As the Prime Minister said in the New Year's speech, we must start again with the blank sheet of paper. And then we from Christiansborg should not think that we can retailly manage centralized to receive dignified care for the elderly. We must take responsibility for the fact that resources are there, that the money goes with the increasing number of elderly people, and that is why we also tabled a proposal for a welfare law which, unfortunately, cannot be voted through here in the Folketing. But then we will also have to take a more fundamental stand against the way in which our care for the elderly is organised, because too much time is spent away from the elderly, where employees sit on a computer screen or with paperwork and all too often a good mix of it all. So we will not be able to do that by adding a single word to the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510172542	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510172544	No, of course we don't. But it is a matter of course that care should be included in the legislation. Well, I just have to say that now nothing can surprise me anymore. We have been invited to several senior summits, we have been invited to Marienborg, and no real action is being taken. I am simply incomprehensible when something good happens to our older fellow citizens. So, is the government supposed to go to parliamentary elections on an elderly law, or is there an improvement for our elderly fellow citizens before a parliamentary election?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510172621	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510172623	Thank you. After all, it has become somewhat a fixed template that one can then say that nothing is happening, although a whole lot is happening and we have actually chosen a fundamentally different approach from that under the previous government, where a consultancy agency worked for a year and could point to four rules that had to be abolished. Then we were so neither more skilful nor braver in here than that we could eventually agree to abolish one of those rules, I think it was. I would venture to claim that it is limited what it has freed of time for caring out there. That work is really good at it. It's big, it's hard, and I really hope you're all gonna bite to fuck this fall. And in addition to that work, we have, of course, raised the economy of the municipalities. We have set aside money for 1,000 more employees and for 1,000 unskilled people to become skilled, and a large number of other things that I can see from the President that I do not have time to list. It is simply wrong to draw a picture that nothing has happened in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510172706	Thank you very much to the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. There will therefore be room for the first rapporteur, Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510172723	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for making a proposal on care. Care must be a core value in our care for the elderly. I think we can agree on that. In recent years, unfortunately, this has not been the case. This isn't just about these horrible cases that we've all seen. It is also about the day-to-day focus on relationships, presence and care, and it should not be a day-to-day business that is guided by schedules. We have seen how our social and health assistants go home from work without feeling that they have done enough in the meeting with the elderly, because simply 7 minutes had been allocated to the meeting of Mrs Hansen and then the employee had to move on. We've heard a lot of these stories in the care of the elderly. But I am not going to stand here today and talk the care of the elderly down, because we have a lot of skilled employees, and there is a very good care for the elderly in Denmark every day. There's a lot that works. However, as the Minister also mentioned, there is a need for a fundamental change, where care and presence come into focus more and where we trust that employees can use their professional skills and common sense. That is why I very much agree with the intention behind the resolution, namely that our legislation should reflect precisely that we want care as a central value in care for the elderly, but unfortunately I do not believe that everything has been done by writing care into section 83 of the Services Act, because we do not fundamentally change the way we make care for the elderly work by amending a single paragraph. We still have myriads of rules and legislation in this area, which are moving in the opposite direction. If we are to continue to have a lot of demands, bureaucracy and documentation, it will take away time from the core task, and it is precisely the care we are losing again. Therefore, care must be thought into a much greater change in the whole way we arrange our care. And here, after New Year's, the government began to devise a new law on the elderly. The aim has been explained several times by the government, and the Minister has just mentioned it. We must start with a blank piece of paper and focus on the framework for dignified care for the elderly. It must be an old law which must be based on clear values such as dignity, care, freedom of choice, self-determination and the need for documentation. It is precisely to create the framework for an elderly care where employees do not spend time on unnecessary administration and registration, but they must have room for their professionalism, and that is also part of the concern. A consultative panel and a number of expert groups have now also been set up and meetings are being held throughout the country. I myself had a meeting today with Danske Eldersråd, who also had this on the program. The Minister has already held citizens' meetings in three places around the country, and I myself have participated in a few of them, and I can only feel that there is an enormous energy and a great desire for change. So there is a process going on and I look very much forward to moving forward with the work that has been started. In view of this, the Social Democrats cannot support the concrete proposal. On the other hand, I am really looking forward to having a seat here in the Danish Parliament, together with a new law on the elderly, where care will be central. I hope that the rest of the Danish Parliament will be involved in the work and, of course, like the Minister, I will bring along all the good ideas. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510173115	Thank you for that and there is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510173118	Thank you. I think it is quite crazy that the Social Democrats say no to writing care into the legislation, so that it will be a right for our fellow citizens that they have the right to care. It seems to be bureaucraticly heavy. You'd rather wait because this proposal can't be left alone. No, this is an element in guaranteeing the elderly and others who are covered by Section 83 of the Services Act a right to provide care in the legislative sense, for there is no provision in the legislation today. And not even the Social Democrats will be involved in that. I just have to say, I'm very puzzled. And, as I said to the Minister, we have been invited to numerous meetings, and what is the government's proposal is to delete everything, delete the rights of the elderly and not give them more rights and set it all free. Is that understood correctly?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510173216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510173216-2	At least I have not made myself clear enough, because I am just trying to say that we think care is a very central value in the care of the elderly. However, we do not believe that it is possible to legislate by including it in the legislation, because as it is today, and I believe that Mrs Adsbøl has also learned, the employees will still have to run fast, as we have organized the care of the elderly today, and they do not have time for care. After all, the Ethical Council has been around and has now spent several years uncovering the state of health care, and it has to be said that exactly the leg called care, there is no room for, because health workers too must run so fast. So, of course, there must be room for care, but we must, of course, create the framework for it to take place before we start to include it in the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510173303	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510173303-2	This isn't either. So, care is a central value, says the rapporteur. It is obviously not so central that the Social Democratic Party will write care into the legislation and give our older fellow citizens and others a right to care in the legislative sense. Then it is clear that it cannot stand alone; there is much more to be done. But I simply do not understand why the rapporteur is neglecting it so that care should not be written into the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510173333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510173333-2	I simply do not understand why Mrs Karina Adsbøl cannot hear that both the Minister and I have said that we believe that care is important. And now that we are about to create a new law on the elderly, that is one of the things we would very much like to bring in, and I hope everyone can hear that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510173350	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then the rapporteur of the Left is Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510173358	Thank you for that, President. We all need care if we become ill, need care or need health care in other ways. Few people will disagree with this quote: "Omsorg is a basic human need, and in a critical and uncertain situation the need is particularly pronounced." That is how the Ethics Council writes in their recent opinion on health care. In its statement, the Ethical Council has seven concrete messages, and I would like to quote here message four, which bears the heading: care is difficult to measure and standardize. And I quote: "The relational and person-borne care is difficult to replace by standardised offers. Care is an expression of an attitude toward a patient or a citizen. That is why there is a limit to its standardisation. The concern must include a spontaneous dimension, so it is a reaction to this particular patient, to this particular situation, and not organised action on the basis of standard situations. We in the Left are in complete agreement with the Ethical Council: care cannot be put solely on the formula, standardized, quantified and not put into a tight legislative framework, as Mrs Karina Adsbøl wants with the resolution here. For care is individual, it is person-borne, and then it is highly dependent on time, place and circumstances. But I would like to thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl and others. in order to have a debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber. For the point about the far too many neglects in e.g. The care of the elderly, which we have witnessed in recent years, is important and speaks its clear language. There are Elders who have worked hard for themselves, their family and society for life, should not lie with wet diapers, experience unkemptness, live in a pigsty or lack food and drink. As a welfare society, we cannot be aware of this. On the Left side, we clearly believe that care is a management task. Each leader must provide room for employees to have the necessary profits to care for the elderly and for patients, and must give priority to employees at all levels to understand that presence is the first step towards a care service that really cares for its citizens. From the left we would like to see a much sharper focus on management in the municipal nursing homes. We want there to be local boards at all municipal nursing homes, where both managers and employees, for example. fire souls and relatives have a place around the board table; boards where the relatives have an influence on who is employed as manager, according to the same model as we have for the school boards. It will open up the possibility of prioritising tasks and interventions in good dialogue with both employees and management, so that there is room for care, presence and good relations. A lack of time is not an excuse for not caring. But it is clear that the way one spends time has an impact on how one's everyday life is related and here the management comes into play. Many elderly people today have to settle for one offer, the municipal one when the last important home is to be chosen, and that is just not good enough. There must be free-care homes in all municipalities, so that the elderly really have an option. But choice and an overview of choice is a shortcoming in today's modern care of the elderly, for many older people say they are happy that there is free choice between public and private actors; but many also say that they really do not know what they can choose from. And it's a huge mistake. That is why we in the Left want us to have independent cross-municipal older counsellors who can guide our older people and their relatives to the right offer. And here it is important for me to stress that we in the Left have no preference in relation to whether the elderly and their relatives choose a private or municipal public offer. But we have a wish that there should be something to choose from. Here we have a clear dividing line with the Red Government, which has repeatedly stated, most recently with the proposal on the new welfare agreements, that there is no desire to preserve the right of the elderly to free choice. We on the Left are puzzled by this, because people are different and have different preferences throughout their lives, and our welfare offers must reflect that. In conclusion, I would like to thank Mrs Adsbøl and others again. to put care on the agenda. On the Left side, we share the desire for better care for our elderly, but we do not agree on the way to achieving the goal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510173903	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510173904	I am surprised that the Left does not agree that care should, of course, be written into the legislation, but that is the way it is. But there are some other things I agree with the Left in which the Left may agree with the mg, among others. I was also the rapporteur at the time. I just need to hear: Section 83 of the Services Act states today that the municipal council has a duty to offer personal care, practical assistance, home food services to persons who, due to temporary or permanent reduced physical or mental capacity or special social problems, cannot carry out these tasks themselves. Does the rapporteur not think that care could be well written into that paragraph? Because it should be a matter of course. I am aware of the fact that, like myself, the rapporteur of the Left was very offended by the documentary in which we, among others, were. Then Else hung in his loft lift and had to make stool into the bed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174008	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174008-2	As I said earlier, we in the Left share Mrs Karina Adsbøl's wish that care should of course be taken in health care, but if I am to be skinless honest, I think it might be a little bit cheap to think that with a fingertips and a word of six letters you can take care of all the problems in the care of the elderly. I don't think you can do that. I have pointed out here some of the initiatives that we in the Left believe need to be taken, but that does not mean that we disagree with Mrs Adsbøl that this word in six letters, namely care, is important. Perhaps I would like to ask: has Mrs Karina Adsbøl read the statement from the Ethical Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174055	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174055-2	Mrs Jane Heitmann has just stood on the platform and read out what the Ethical Council has written. That's one thing. The second thing is that I am just deeply puzzled that when you think it is so important, you will not have the word care written into the legislation and in this way, like giving the elderly the right to care, of course they have the right to care. Something else that puzzles me is, of course, when Mrs Jane Heitmann stands on the floor and mentions the things that the Left has proposed, because we have together, when I was rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, also made proposals on boards and other things. I am well aware that this cannot ensure that the elderly receive dignified and caring care, but it is necessary, after all we have seen, that it becomes a requirement and, of course, is written into the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174147	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174147-2	I fully agree with Mrs Karina Adsbøl that fundamental changes are simply needed in the care of the elderly, and I wonder why the government is slowing down as they are. Now we have had a red government since 2019 and we have not seen any other legislative proposal at all here in the last period on the welfare agreements, which, of course, contains some of what we in the Left cannot support, namely the possibility of depriving the elderly of free elections. So I am wondering, when it is so obvious and so obvious that it lags behind in the care of the elderly that no initiatives have been taken by the government to mitigate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174224	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments, so that is why it is now the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174233	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl, outside the groups, for the proposal, which aims to write care for the elderly into section 83 of the Services Act. The proposal and, above all, the intentions are fine, I think. According to the proposers, the aim is to include the right to care in the legislation, to prevent the failure of care, which is considered essential for the mental health of the elderly. No one can disagree with that. In the SF we at least agree that elderly people must be offered equal support, care and treatment. They should also meet employees who have professional qualifications in order to exercise care in the work. However, I can be in doubt whether the concept of care is precisely enough for all of us to understand the importance of it. I would like to see relations between employees and citizens given priority in the care of the elderly, but I do not expect us to love each other, and I do believe that there are a great many elderly people who would like to be free of measures, such as: may seem clingy. I just think that we have very different perceptions of what care is for a concept, and therefore I became so curious that I Googled what care is. You really get many different answers when you ask your friend, Google: Questions about health; questions about how you feel; hold hands; hugs; be held about for a long time, e.g. In fact, it was written or treated as one would like to be treated oneself, which is at least to be expected at least in the way we deal with one another. These are hardly all examples which will cover the proposal put forward by the rapporteur here, and the proposal also uses carelessness, which is the opposite, as an argument for the proposal. There are no rapporteurs with respect for themselves who have not distanced themselves from images of Else, who are asked to support while she is in a lift, or older people who have not received any help for diapers, or who got diapers on because there was no time to help with toilet visits in time, because it is not worthy. I just don't think the problem is solved by writing care into the law. The problem is solved with skillful, skilled staff and enough of them, and may I not just flash here that I am extremely sorry that there has not been a majority in favour of a welfare law which would ensure that we can afford to hire the number of staff that is needed as we get more and more elderly people. I would also like to highlight the SF's proposal to authorise skilled staff who work with people and who, I believe, could also make an important contribution to equality. For equality, responsiveness and professional competence is the solution, and there are many of them in the care of the elderly not to forget. But I also believe that we need to focus much more on the relationship with permanent teams where the need for care and care can be developed in cooperation. In fact, we have to get away from the belief that we can sit in an office with a visitor and decide what the elderly need most, because this is best agreed between the staff and the elderly. So we agree with the intention. In SF we will also spend a lot of time talking about how to ensure professional quality in care for the elderly, when it is the case that we are going to negotiate the health reform when we negotiate the law on the elderly, and also, as such, when we negotiate the 10-year psychiatry plan. In fact, we also believe that it should be negotiated together, and in this work we will work hard to ensure that care translated into what I think is care, namely professionally qualified, skilled staff and cooperation and relations with the citizens also benefit from the promotion there. That is why we do not support the proposal in isolation, as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174701	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174702	I have to say that I am very surprised that the SF does not support the inclusion of care in the legislation. I actually had a little higher thoughts about SF in the area of the elderly. But I fully agree that this cannot be left alone. In other words, I do not understand why it is being neglected in this way, in that it should save everything and that in future we will not see neglect, because that is not what it is all about; today we are debating precisely that care is not in the legislation. After all, we will probably also see a failure to provide care in the future, because even if there is care in the legislation, this does not mean that things do not happen, but at least that helps to send out a very strong signal that there should be no neglect. And it also helps to say, at least to give the elderly a legal position, that they are thus entitled to care. So I just have to say that I am very puzzled that the SF cannot support it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174810	I agree that older people are entitled to a caring and respectful approach to the needs to which they need help. One might also wonder why, for example, we have to be able to do something about it. have not been registered in Section 83 that the elderly are entitled to skilled staff with knowledge of the health and illness of the elderly, or have been enrolled in the Service Act, that the elderly have the right to permanent and well-known staff and do not have to live with Fredericia railway station because you will need help with personal relationships. There are many things you could write in, which in fact also define what I am listening to Mrs Adsbøl's proposal, namely the quality of care for the elderly. So do I, but I think there is a need to deepen it. Moreover, I would just like to say that at no time would there be any rapporteurs in this Chamber who would say that carelessness is in order. And I think that is actually the way it is, in addition to the Services Act, as it is written today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174914	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174915	What the SF's rapporteur says, I would really like to buy. We can only table an amendment which will also include the fact that, of course, the elderly are entitled to skilled and skilled staff and that it should not be a railway station with them. Well, I get that. Let us do so, because I certainly think that our older fellow citizens deserve the best, and I also agree with what the rapporteur says. So I am clearly in favour of an amendment where we add it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510174950	I could easily see a report before me where together we define what is respectful and dignified care for the elderly. In fact, I think that the right way to solve these problems is to continue working on an old people's law, a health reform and, for that matter, a 10-year plan for psychiatry. And I wish that it would be negotiated together, because I think that could actually make a great deal of sense for the whole area now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510175015	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Christina Thorholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510175027	Thank you to Karina Adsbøl for raising the issue of giving people the right to care under the Service Act. Care is important to us as humans for us to thrive and live. Without care, we will wither. We give and receive care from our fellow humans, both in our families, by our friends and at our work. This is an essential part of our quality of life. There are people who depend on the help of society, among other things. in home care and in nursing homes, and here they get the help of people who have chosen subjects, where care is an essential part of the work • employees who each day provide lots of care in the work and relation to the people they provide help. Unfortunately, there are also examples of where employees do not provide care, and this is totally unacceptable, and we must strike down on management, because this is a matter of management. It is about management creating a framework and culture for the care work that is done massively in our elderly and home care. The question is this: should we legislate on the right to care? Yes, it may sound enticing, but it is also paradoxical in relation to a service law because care is difficult to measure. It's hard to define. It will create, in our eyes, plenty of bureaucracy because there is a difference between what one understands as care and the other understands as care. According to the authors of the proposal, the aim of the proposal is to prevent failure to provide care, and it is also stated that if genuine care is given, the obligation of the Elders' Inspectorate to react and act if suspicions arise that a citizen does not have the necessary care will be strengthened. It will also give relatives a better opportunity to shout guard in arms if they do not have sufficient care. But there we believe that the task of the Elders' Inspectorate is to intercept and react if they do not believe that care is provided in our nursing homes and in the care of the elderly, because the care in contact is the means and conditions for the work with the citizens to be done with a high quality, and this must lead to increased supervision and injunctions if it is not present. Care is an essential part of the services provided by the Services Act, but we do not need to legislate on it. It is about management, that the employees are professionally dressed to be in contact with and work with the elderly. It is about understanding both health and social needs, and we will then have plenty to work on this in an older law, in the welfare agreements and also in a health law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510175322	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510175324	The rapporteur on the Radical Left says that it is simply a management task to strike down the stingy vessels, but I would like to hear the rapporteur: does the rapporteur not think that there is also a personal responsibility? In other words, if you work in the care and care sector, you cannot say that everything is management's fault. I fully agree that there must of course be visible management and good role models. It must also be present, sometimes also beyond 1 p.m. 7-15, or when you meet. But do you not also have a personal responsibility when you are employed in the care and care sector? That was one thing. There's another thing I want to hear about. If you now agree that care is important and that the elderly should not be deprived of care, then it is actually strange that you do not want to include it in the legislation. But what do you radicals want? What will the Radicals do for our elderly fellow citizens? I understand that this can't stand alone. Other good measures are needed to ensure that our older citizens receive proper and dignified treatment. But this is one element of a larger package.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510175429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510175429-2	Yes, and I fully agree with the questioner when she asks if it is not a personal responsibility. Sometimes there is also a need for management responsibility to be taken into account if a workplace has a wrong culture or if the framework is not sufficiently good in relation to the individual employee being able to provide care and a professional job. But yes, as an employee you clearly have a responsibility too. It is when you do not get hit in terms of taking responsibility that the management has a task. What I'm trying to say is that we see care as the means, and that's why we see it as a wrong approach... but it's not our approach... if you say you have to legislate about it. Because, just as we do not write in pedagogy, we would not write in the way proposed in the proposal here either. I'm sure we're going to work on the concept of care in the new Older Law. After all, we already do this in the welfare agreements and in the permanent teams. Yes, it fills a lot in our work and in our dialogues with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510175536	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510175537	However, the rapporteur did not reply to what the Radical Left is actually going to do for our elderly fellow citizens. So, you will not write care into section 83 of the Service Act, which states that you have the right to personal care, practical assistance and food service, which is the municipal authority's duty to provide. You don't want to write care there because there's a difference. But it's all about empathy, so it's all about empathy, so you can see what the elderly needs, and then you can see what the elderly needs. So I have to say: I am deeply surprised and I simply do not know what the Radical Left will do for our older fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510175619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510175620	I am surprised, however, that the questioner does not know, because we have plenty of cooperation where, among other things, we have a lot of cooperation. We are talking about permanent teams, as we are doing now; we are talking about what new steps should be taken in relation to the reserve negotiations. In other words, work is going on all the time, where we are talking about improvements in conditions, both for the elderly and for other vulnerable groups. So that way, it's going to be too far to have to answer it in these 30 seconds when we have a close cooperation on the stakes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510175655	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510175703	Today we have an elderly care in which too many older citizens do not get the help they need in order to live a safe and dignified life. In many places, municipal savings have affected the care of the elderly, and the staff's time to carry out care and care tasks and the necessary practical tasks has become far too short. Of course, when time does not match the tasks that staff have to perform, the professional quality of care for the elderly is at risk. Even a skilled, well-trained professional staff find it difficult to solve the tasks fully satisfactory when they are too pressured on their time. The presence and care that we are discussing here requires time, and if care for the elderly is even organised so that the elderly constantly experience that there are a very large number of different employees who care and care, and when the individual elderly constantly experience that new people are coming whom she or he does not know, it is difficult to build up the relationships that are so central to ensuring dignity in the care of the elderly. That is why we must both have more resources for elderly care and find new ways of organising work in the care of the elderly. The last thing, that is, how we organise care for the elderly, is of course currently a strong political focus. The government, together with the Danish Parliament's parties, has initiated a process which will hopefully lead to a reduction in both administrative and various other documentation tasks, so that time can be spent more on care and care. It is our hope in the Enhedslisten that we will see a change in the care of the elderly, so that the individual elderly experience much more than today that they receive the help of a social and health care professional they know. And there is certainly a very strong focus on the whole issue of smaller, permanent teams. This introduction to say that it is in this light that we see the proposal from a number of non-party Members. We fully agree with the intention of the proposal, and I think it would be right to stress that we are regulating the right to care in line with the right to personal assistance and care, as is today enshrined in Section 83 of the Services Act. We should do so when, in a few months' time, I assume, we start negotiations on a new law on the elderly, which I understand the government will invite when the ongoing process of developing the basis for new legislation is completed and we have seen the reports from the expert groups set up. It is a process which we support in the Enhedslisten and which we actually hope for. We think it is sensible to have had the impression that it is my impression that the Elders Case, FOA and other actors in the care of the elderly very close to the design of the whole basis of the work, and that not least representatives of the elderly councils and a wide range of practitioners who have their everyday life in the care of the elderly have also been directly involved in the preparatory work. It should just be announced here, for the sake of order, that, in our view, the objective of developing dignified care for the elderly cannot only be achieved through new forms of work. It also requires additional funds, but we can come back to that when the negotiations start on the other side of the summer holiday. So what we arrive at in the Enhedslisten is that we absolutely support the intention in the motion for a resolution, but we mean by the hand on the heart that it would be strange in the process that is under way to say: Now we are going to amend the Service Act § 83. I can quite see the logic of adding an extra stick to the three that are currently in section 83. We think it would be sensible for us to include it in order to ensure that, in the context of a new law on the elderly, there will be a right of care, and we would be very happy to take part in a report which obliges care to play a central role in negotiating a new law on the elderly. And, as I said, we would very much like to see the right to care written into a new law on the elderly. However, as the proposal stands, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510180207	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510180208	It is, of course, disappointing that even the Enhedslisten cannot support this excellent motion for a resolution because, as Mr. Jakob Silverhøj well knows, there will be a parliamentary election in a moment, and we do not actually know when it will be. So we really do not know whether there will be any old people's law or whether what will happen sometime in the future will happen. So this was an obvious opportunity to at least make sure that a little bit happened in the area of the elderly. That's why I want to hear about it, sir. Jakob Silverhøj mentions, in relation to a report, that at least there is an obligation on each other to take action. Well, I would like to see action taken here and now. I think that there has been a great deal of failure in the area of the elderly, there has been far too much talk rather than action, and this proposal actually comes from the Elders case too. Then Mr. Jakob Silverhøj is not tempted to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510180314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510180317	I fully agree that you can go to the Elders Case's website and see that there is support to include care in the legislation. However, even if we adopted the resolution, it would not be necessary to legislate until the autumn when Parliament meets again. It is, of course, in the nature of the whole proposal, and it is, after all, the same time horizon that we have when it comes to creating a new law on the elderly. It is clear that we cannot know whether we can reach agreement and that we cannot know whether the government is ultimately thinking the same thing as Enhedslisten about this and whether we can reach a common agreement. However, in my view, the time horizon is quite the same with regard to a debate and legislation in the autumn, as with the fact that we had to adopt a resolution which first has legislative power, as soon as it is transposed into legislation. So yes, we have to act, but the time perspective we are working on in relation to a new law on the elderly is not slower than what Mrs Adsbøl wants us to adopt with the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510180425	Thank you. Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510180427	I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is satisfied with the government's proposals or with the tactics of a new law on the elderly, which is, of course, to remove all the rights of the elderly, both those we have discussed in this Chamber in relation to free elections, but also in relation to the fact that we should not have the right to do anything. Because you say as a government that you start on a blank piece of paper. So is the rapporteur not also a little concerned that we should just start on a blank piece of paper in relation to where we might end up?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510180500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510180501	I have heard that there is a great deal of support both from the Elders case and from the FOA to the process that has been set in motion. I fully agree with Mrs Karina Adsbøl that rights are important. I think it is fair enough to start with the very broad process that has been set in motion. For us, however, it is very important to ensure that there are rights in the legislation as well. We have, of course, had exactly the same discussion in connection with the free municipalities' attempts. So yes, a commitment from here that we will fight for rights to be entered into an old law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510180537	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510180548	Thank you very much to the authors of the motion for a resolution for presenting it here. Since our rapporteur for the elderly was unable to be present in the Chamber today, I have promised to cover up this motion for a resolution. We owe our older people an infinite amount. They have taken care of us when we were young and were dependent on their care and care. They have worked hard on the labour market and helped build our welfare society up to the Denmark we know today. Now it is their turn that we as families take responsibility as they took responsibility for us when we needed them; their turn for the welfare society to take care of them and give them the basis for a dignified old age. To ensure that the last years of the elderly will be good years is a shared responsibility between family, civil society and the employees who help with care, practical help and yes, care. I think most people who work with our older people see caring as an elementary part of their task and responsibility. But in order to provide care, you need to know the elderly you come with, and this requires a fight with the swing door planning in, for example, home care. Relations are the foundation of care, and care is the foundation of dignified care for the elderly. We are certainly in favour of the question of whether there should be no wording related to care when we have to review our legislation in the area of the elderly later this year. That is why we certainly welcome this motion for a resolution, but are waiting for the joint discussions in this area, which are beginning to begin in the Ministry of the Elderly. We look forward to them very much. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510180744	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510180754	Thank you. It is really weird when you sit and wait to be rapporteur, and when you think about how to stop, how many of those debates have been going through really, very many years, and I really think we have been repeating ourselves time and time again, not just here in this collection, but over the years, so that now we have to do better for the elderly, it is they who have created the society that we enjoy today, and now it is our turn and so on. And yet we are constantly debating what we can do more because we are well aware that the objective has not been achieved at all and that there are a great many elderly people in our society who are not feeling as well as they certainly deserve. I was thinking, when I heard the older minister in the first speech, about the old song that you have my sympathy, but that you have nothing to have it in, and that is how we all relate to such proposals about the elderly, so that we really, really, really want it, but that it is difficult because there are many parameters, there are many things to draw on, and there are many things that are not being done and which we very well know are not being done. It is about the municipalities and whether there is enough money, it is about whether there are enough staff and whether the staff there are are appreciated enough. Do they have the right education? Do they get the right salary? Are we talking about them properly and to them? However, it should also be borne in mind that this is a matter for the elderly and that everyone employed in the older sector must take good care of the elderly. Yes, but you can write it into the Service Act.So you can take care of it, which is a really, really nice word, and I really think it fits the elderly very well, and it could also take care of children and our fellow citizens at all, but older people and care really fit very well together. I think you have to be very serious about this thing, because taking care of the elderly is not only practical, that formalities are okay, that you can have a good foster home, that you can have your food, that you can get your medicine, that there is a doctor who can come and see you once in a while, if there is something wrong, but daily care is such a rather diffuse word. Well, it's hard to put on the practical. However, I think that there are the things I said earlier about us having to think about how we hire staff, who we hire, how we talk about them, what wages, what goodwill they get from all of us, and then I just have to say that if we are lucky, we will all grow old enough to hopefully have the care that we would like to have written into today's Service Act. I think we all know some people in our associations, whether they are parents or who they are who have reached an age where they need to have the care that we are discussing here today. I think I would say from the Danish People's Party, in line with others, that it is probably a good idea to write into a report and proceed with it when we come on the other side of the sitting-free period. If this proposal is put to the vote, we would like to vote in favour of it. It's not certain it does. I think that there will be a majority in favour of making a report on it, and I think that is actually a good idea which the Danish People's Party can endorse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510181125	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510181139	Of course, the elderly who have helped build up our society and who have given us lots of love and care in our upbringing deserve the very best, and that is also what I hear quite widely in the Chamber today. In New Citizens, we believe that the money should follow the individual one to one. We agree that there must be free-care homes in all municipalities, so that you can choose freely, both where you want to live, but also in relation to what kind of care you want and what level you want. Of course, no matter how old you get, you still have to be a master in your own life and have the opportunity to define your everyday life and what matters to yourself, whether it's care and care or whether it's trips out of the house, because hopefully it's the way you live your whole life, and that's the way it's supposed to be. In New Citizens we have a clear position on how we want to change the elderly and, as I mentioned earlier, it is, among other things, that the money must follow the individual, so that you have the opportunity to choose freely. We also want to remove to a much greater extent all the documentation requirements and the bureaucracy that is also in the area of the elderly, so that the professionals who stand out there have a better chance of doing what they are best to do, namely to take care of the care and care of the elderly whom they care for and for which they have trained. And we have spoken in the past, both here in Parliament, in consultation and everything else, about the fact that there are these stingy vessels, and, fortunately, we also agree that they should just leave and that they should not, of course, have to deal with older people. However, the employees who are out there must, of course, have the opportunity to use their professional skills and the elderly must have a genuinely free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510181339	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then we are through with the rapporteurs who are in the Chamber, apart from the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go to Mrs Karina Adsbøl outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510181355	Thank you. I think I should get this down every time. Care is important, and I could spend a lot of time standing here and telling you about that, but you already know that. Care is important. Both for children, young people, the elderly and everyone in between. That is why I think it is quite wrong that care is not a right for older citizens. We are convinced that failure to care can be just as dangerous as improper medicine management, inadequate care and hygiene, and care failure can also lead to both mental and physical damage. As an elderly citizen today, we simply do not have a real tangible right to care, and we think that is dull. Especially when you think about how we saw older citizens being caressed in the broadcast from TV 2, the care homes behind the facade. It was the neglect of the worst drawer. That is why we have also taken the initiative on this proposal to introduce care as a right in the Services Act. Here, of course, I know that, as they have also done, the government will say that we are already in the process of improving the conditions of the elderly by starting over with all the rules, including the rights. However, I hope that the rapporteurs in this Chamber will not allow themselves to be eaten. Because establishing a genuine right of care will also increase the obligation of the Elders' Inspectorate to react and act if there is a suspicion that a citizen does not have the care to which he or she is entitled. I also imagine that it will be easier for the relatives to complain about it if their relatives are not treated well, i.e. if they can support a real right of care. I also think that I would like to emphasise that in the care of the elderly we have a great many skilled, good, caring employees. They're not the problem. They're the strength. No, the problem is the individual stumbled vessels, i.e. the employees who, in fact, should never have worked with people. If they are guilty of neglect, we must also be sure that there is a response. That is precisely why we believe that there should be a right of care. But I can also hear from today's debate that you are a little hesitant about introducing this into the legislation, because you are already in the process. Now I'm very impatient, and maybe it's the wrong job I've chosen, because, come on, where are things going just slow. So, we can simply debate for an eternity about all the good things we want to do, but when it comes to action, sometimes I think it takes too long and often several years. After all, many of the issues we are debating have been debated for several years. Now it is also the case today that the government keeps saying that, well, they have added more funds. But the fact is that the service level has not changed. Our elders haven't gotten better under this government. I very much agree with what has been said in relation to the issue of free elections. I think that is important too. I think it is important to have a free choice in several areas. We often debate the problem of disability, and I think, in fact, that we should have more freedom of choice in this area in relation to, among other things, the disabled. So I really think that we could take it forward too, namely that free elections are important. However, I have to say that I am still a little surprised that the proposal is not being supported, because I think it is actually a very good proposal. As I also said in my previous rapporteur's speech in the previous proposal we were discussing, it was on the basis of requests from citizens. This has actually been based on previous inquiries from the Elders Case, which has also proposed this. That's why I thought maybe the Folketing would agree with the intention of the Elders case to introduce this right. So far, however, there is no support for this, but I hope that we will be able to draw up a joint report. Because I have a concern also after we have had several older summits and meetings at Marienborg. I'm thinking I'm not being invited to negotiations myself. At least I have not been so far, so here is a way to get down to the Chamber and say what you want. And just for general information, I would like to say something when the radical rapporteur now says that we are sitting and discussing it in relation to the reserve and everything else. I don't. So it is my opportunity here, too, to make our proposal, in terms of what we would like to see a future law on the elderly being. It's just a small element. Because we need, yes, a major paradigm shift in our care and care sector. I fully agree that the fact that you have permanent employees who know the citizens is extremely important. But skilled and qualified staff can also, regardless of who they enter, assess what kind of home they come into. However, for the sake of the citizen, it is important that they are the same people who are also coming back, at least to the extent that they can. I know there are different guards, morning, dinner, night, night, but as far as possible. However, I look forward to the committee reading and thank you for today's debate and for the rapporteur's speeches. I must then take note of the fact that a majority in the Folketing did not think that we should vote through the proposal as it stands. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182001	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's from Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182006	Thank you. I would like to reiterate my thanks from the rapporteur to Mrs Karina Adsbøl for putting forward this proposal and raising the debate on health care and care for the elderly. After all, the Ethical Council has published such a writing, and the headline is "Omsorg in the Health Care Service" 7 messages from the Ethical Council. It is a rather new publication and I just wanted to ask if Mrs Karina Adsbøl has read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182034	In other words, as rapporteur and as a member of the Folketing, you get very large amounts of material. I took note of what the rapporteur said in his speech about it, but now I am so elected to have a position and an opinion on some things too. One is that, of course, you can always take note of what organisations and others think, but my position is quite clear that care should of course be included in the legislation, regardless of what the Ethics Council thinks or does not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182104	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182106	Thank you. After all, this is not the first time we have discussed a motion for a resolution which essentially has the wording of the one we are dealing with today, so that care should be written into section 83. I would just like to urge Mrs Karina Adsbøl to just dive into this excellent publication. There are plenty of good suggestions, nuances and considerations about what care is for a size. So it's just a friendly call. I have read it myself and am very excited about it. That is also why I took the liberty of quoting from it in my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182142	Well, it is quite fine that the rapporteur in his rapporteur's speech quotes all sorts of publications that the rapporteur has read. Now it is the case that when I make proposals in the Parliamentary Chamber, I often do so on the basis of people I speak to, enquiries I get in my inbox about challenges or organisations that come up with something they want to solve and, of course, also challenges that you yourself experience in your own political work, thinking: why is that so? Why don't we change that when we have the chance?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182214	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182218	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for giving me what I really know very well, in other words that permanent teams and professional skills are essential for the dignity and care of the elderly in particular to be given to the citizens to whom they come from. The Ethical Council's suggestion of what care is, I would also like to flash here because I was also trying to say in my rapporteur's speech that care is just different, depending on what we are to some people. For some, holding hands can mean something. And we also talk a lot about the time to hold hands. My father thought it was extremely strange if someone came and held his hand or for that matter hugged him because he wanted to have an equal and cooperative relationship with his helpers. Can the rapporteur just say in a few words what cares the rapporteur? So how will the rapporteur define care so that everyone would understand it if it were written into the legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182323	I was just saying a sentence here, if that's what we're going to discuss. It is: Care must be given individually according to the needs of the citizen. We can write that in. Today, it is the case that children are removed if they are deprived of care. We're not gonna remove the elderly if they get careless. You can't do that, can you? Anyway, it's just worth thinking about in relation to the care failure and when you would allow it. So this is simply to guarantee a right, in other words to write care into the law. Because it is really strange that it does not say so today. And yes, care is individual, but it is certainly not to hang in a bed and make stool over his bed, as we have seen examples of. Nor is it the demented man we have seen examples of who showed clear signs of going to the bathroom. Well, these are the scenes we've been witnessing. These are just some of the things that have happened in addition to what has happened. And then I fully understand that it is also about ensuring a better framework for our care staff and visible management and all the other things. This can't be alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182433	Thank you. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182435	Fortunately, I have also experienced a great many highly skilled and professionally competent staff in the care of the elderly, and it is important to remember in that situation. I therefore agree that it is probably easier to define what neglect is than to define what care is in relation to the individual. But it is something about treating one another well or treating one another badly. If the rapporteur himself points out that resources are also a question, would it not have made sense instead of fighting for a welfare law in which we ensure that resources follow demographics when we get more and more elderly people?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182509	I do not think that one excludes the other. I think that there should of course be means to ensure a good framework for our employees and for our older people and for all other citizens in Danish society, but it is also a little bit about having to look at what it is you get for the money, what it is for a quality that is being provided. And I also said in my speech that I would just like to say to the rapporteur that there are a great many skilled staff in our care and care sector, but it is no use not also talking about the stray vessels that also exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182544	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Christina Thorholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182547	It is only a brief comment to the rapporteur for thanking him for the course of the negotiations in which we have participated together. The rapporteur is always very committed and contributing to the development of prospects in this area, and I regret that if the rapporteur does not participate in the same way as the rapporteur does, because I think it has been a quality thing to have the debates we have had. That was the brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182618	Thank you. That was very nice of the radical rapporteur. I also think that we have had some good negotiations in the past, and it is always good that there are more people with different perspectives in the negotiations, and this applies all the way around. Because I think we can meet about very well and agree on very well. Maybe we should park the minister outside and then take care of things ourselves. It was just a quick remark that the minister didn't think was funny.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182647	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mrs Adsbøl. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182701	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510182721	Thank you for that, President. The proposal here proposes to launch an independent investigation into whether there are adequate effective remedies in the family justice system. From the observations made in the proposal it appears that effective legal remedies are meant and now I quote the mechanisms of the law which can be used to ensure that a decision in the family law system or in family law is enforced. I therefore understand that we are thinking of the tools provided by the law to enforce a decision or agreement on parental responsibility. I have to start by saying that the authors of the motion for a resolution are, among other things, the authors of the motion for a resolution. points out that there are fundamental problems of legal certainty in the family justice system. This is supported by the authors of the motion for a resolution. in a legal certainty study from 2021 and it is emphasised that out of 267 lawyers, half replied that legal certainty is worse today than five years ago. The study mentioned from also the focal point of a consultation to which I was summoned in May last year, where I had to explain my position, and I quote from the consultation question, that the Family Court is violating children and parents' legal certainty by overly lengthy processing times and arbitrary processing, as indicated in the "Rights Security Barometer" study 2021·. This is therefore the same study, and at the consultation meeting I was able to tell you about the study carried out by the Lawyers' Society that only 267 lawyers out of the Lawyers' Society's members of approx. 6,000 lawyers participated in the investigation and it was about legal certainty in our society in general not only in relation to family law. I could also inform you that on a question about the general development of legal certainty in society over the last five years, 50 per cent replied. by the lawyers that it's gotten worse. On a similar question in the area of family law, only 27 per cent replied that legal certainty has deteriorated. It was not then, and therefore is not right today in the resolution to use that study to identify problems of legal certainty separately in the family law system. It is, of course, a pity to have to say it again, since we have now been through a conciliation on exactly that, and that is why I will not spend any more time on it either. It is now in place again, and that is why I shall move on to the specific proposal. I believe that the proposal here has been overtaken by a study which VIVE has just carried out on the whole area of enforcement, which is why it is difficult to see the relevance of the proposal put forward. The study, which is called "Fulfilment cases under the Parental Responsibility Act before and after the Family Law Reform in 2019..." has been sent to the Social and Older People's Committee on 23 March this year. I also mentioned it briefly at the status meeting on the Family Court on 31 March, and I know that this week we have resubmitted the study to the rapporteur's group, in case it has been lost in someone's inbox. The purpose of the investigation was to gain knowledge of the field of enforcement, that is to say, what the resolution is about here and what the importance of family law reform is for dealing with enforcement proceedings before and after the reform. The study illustrates, among other things, how the various coercive measures that the system can use are used in practice when a parent, for example, is employed. will not hand over the child for association. The coercive measures are periodic penalty payments; it is the detention of the parent who will not hand over the child; and it is the removal of the child by force. The investigation came about because VIVE has pointed out in the past that there was a lack of knowledge about this area and because our colleagues who negotiated the new divorce system were very concerned about exactly this. It was agreed during the negotiations that, in the interests of legal certainty, it is important and proper for a decision on parental responsibility to be enforced. That is why, with the reform, which has after all been negotiated under the previous bourgeois government, the legislation has also been amended, among other things. to ensure that periodic penalty payments have a level that can effectively affect parents' behaviour. Having said that, I have to remind you that enforcement proceedings are very burdensome for the child. These are cases in which children have been dragged through long distances because there are some parents who do not want to recognise and do not want to respect the decision of the authorities. These are Section 7 cases where the family had first been in the Family Court House, then in the family law where a decision has been taken on e.g. association. If one parent does not follow the court's decision, they may end up in family law in order for the decision to be enforced. As the study by VIVE also shows, these are complex cases with often very wide-ranging conflicts. Therefore, a unanimous Parliament with the reform would have made it clear in law that enforcement can only be done for the sake of the child and that it must take care of the child's best interests. And there was agreement that everything must be done to avoid the potential last resort, namely that the child should be taken by force. And by force is believed that the police, the municipality and a child's lawyer from the Children's Unit appear where the child is, in order to take the child back to the other parent. I am also aware of the fact that the investigation shows that coercive measures are something that most judges see as a last resort, because they do not see any use in forcing parents and because they can harm children. The study also points out that although periodic penalty payments are imposed, they are rarely effective because parents choose to correct and hand over the child in most cases. It is therefore pointed out that periodic penalty payments appear to have a motivating effect, which is also the experience of the judges. The implementation study is part of the overall evaluation of the reform that we are now launching. Overall, the evaluation must follow up on whether the changed structure ensures the desired quality; that is, whether the child's well-being is at the heart, whether the case is simple and adapted to the needs of the families, and whether the parents are advised so that they can take responsibility for being good divorce parents themselves. There is also a need to look at the cooperation between the authorities. The evaluation, on the other hand, will not say anything about the outcome of the cases, and I think that is interesting knowledge to get in relation to the complex § 7 cases. Therefore, in addition to the evaluation already agreed, the Ministry has led VIVE to carry out a study of the § 7 cases. That study shall include: clarify the outcome of the cases, including whether they are decided by judgment or settlement, and whether there is any correlation between how the case ends and the family's challenges, and whether the family returns later with new disagreements. Because a large investigation has just been carried out into the area of enforcement and because further investigations are about to begin, I find it difficult to see that there is a need for even more, and therefore the government cannot support the proposal here. And then I will conclude as a kind of service information maybe inform you that I have just sent an invitation to the rapporteurs to review the new enforcement investigation on 18 May. I hope you have the opportunity to participate and I look forward to VIVE being able to make us wiser in this complex and unfortunately also unhappy area. So, with that, thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510183433	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510183438	Thank you very much for that and thank you to the Minister for the invitation. Of course, we are happy to accept it. One of the points we make in this motion for a resolution is that we could also hear from the hearing which I facilitated about the family law system, among other things. This is because it seems that there are simply no effective remedies. Now we can see, for example, Martin, who was involved in this hearing, and a fine was imposed, and then it lapsed when the other side detained the child again. Does the Minister really believe that the area of these enforcement proceedings simply works as it should when, in principle, one can simply refrain from following the judgment of the court?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510183524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510183527	Thank you. I just want to stress that, and I hope no one disagrees with that, and I really do not think that it is extremely unhappy cases, every time people who have put children together get divorced in a way where the conflicts are big, because it affects children incredibly much. At any rate, I am still pleased that it was decided to reform the divorce system with the aim of enabling divorce parents who have difficulty in doing so to be good divorced parents so that they do not always come back to a system to make a decision, but so that they can learn how to deal with it themselves so that children do not have to live constantly in this conflict. In relation to the question of periodic penalty payments: this is a necessary evil, because unfortunately we are in a situation where there are some parents who do not respect the decisions of the system. That is why there must also be an effective system. Therefore, it is good to see in the enforcement investigation from VIVE and to hear from the judges that periodic penalty payments are seen as something that is actually motivating. And I must say that there is also case law that judges can decide in concrete terms that the periodic penalty payments do not lapse. We shall be glad to see that further progress is made in the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510183637	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510183640	I will look forward to that very much. I would like to say that I really appreciate it. I think this is the first proposal I have made in this area, in addition to the fact that the minister just had a bit of a prelude where the minister is not categorically opposed to looking at this. I think that is very positive. I also think it is very positive that we are looking at this with these fines, because in so many of the cases I have at least been confronted with, the detention of the child has absolutely no consequence. So you can look at it in committee. In general terms, however, I think it would be very good if all the parties sat down together and looked at whether there were any concrete things in the family law system that had to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510183718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510183720	Thank you. Yes, it is a bit funny that it should be addressed as if the Minister is finally not opposed to anything that has been proposed, when the reality is that the enforcement of the coercive measures, the means of law, has just been carried out impartially. And it has been sent to the parties, and now we have resubmitted it, and a meeting has also been convened so that it can be reviewed. So it's weird to have to draw such a picture that now you knock in the door when it's actually something that's so I'm going to look forward to that meeting, and I'm also going to look forward to supporting the further investigations we've started, and that can only hopefully be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510183756	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510183757	Thank you. I think my invitation might be in cyberspace somewhere. But what I really want to hear from the Minister is whether the Minister recognises that there is a parenthood in the House of Family Rights. It is precisely a shortcoming in, among other things. VIVE's report and also in Lev Without Violence's report. So I just need to know if the Minister acknowledges that it appears.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510183822	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510183823	I am aware that this is not such a protected title or concept, which is very firmly defined in research and certainly not in our legislation. What I can see is that there is a fairly constant amount of divorce cases, which are extremely conflicting, where there are some children who get into a lot of trouble and where they get some scars on their souls and some problems that also throw some long shadows into their adult lives. This is something you can hear when you listen to some of the young adults who have lived in such constant conflicts between their parents. And that is why it is true that we have a divorce system, the main purpose of which is to see whether, however, parents, even in the difficult divorce cases, cannot be brought to a conclusion. And, of course, if we cannot succeed in this, a decision must ultimately be made and it must also be enforceable that that agreement can be implemented. However, I can clearly confirm that, unfortunately, we still have a share of divorces that are very, very conflicting. It is, moreover, a proportion which can be seen to be at the same level in the other Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510183932	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510183934	I think that was a very long answer to a question that could simply be answered yes or no. The question was whether the Minister recognizes that there is a parenthood in some cases in the House of Family Rights, and then a long answer came. So, can the Minister say yes or no? Does the Minister recognize that there are some cases where parenting takes place? I do not know whether the Minister also saw the children as weapons or whether the Minister has also received some of the requests we have received in relation to this. So it is just a question of whether the Minister recognises it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184011	If there is one thing we have discussed a great deal, both here in Parliament and in consultation and, fortunately, also in the current status meetings we have in the contracting parties between, about this, then it is that there is the problem that there are parents who are harassing and how important it is that we have a system where we can make a statement about those accusations. And most importantly, we have a system that examines it in depth when there are accusations of violence and abuse and other things, because there we have to be on the side of children. So the questioner will have heard me relate to that many times over time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184046	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. There are no more brief comments. And then I understand that the rapporteurs have allowed a small rocade in the order of the rapporteur, so now it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184102	Thank you. And I would like to thank you very much for allowing us to express our gratitude to each other for this. That's why I don't have to do it very far either. I would just like to say that we support the proposal and that I am really very sorry that the discussion is going on at a time when there are not so many people present and where everything else is going on around and where we are all too busy to deal with this very, very serious problem. 'Cause it's but I don't have to do it far. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs. I actually hope that if this doesn't get resolved before we get a repeat after the sitting-free period. And then I promise I will personally put more effort into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184157	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Then we will continue with the rapporteur's line and the next Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184215	Thank you. I just want to say that the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution. We think the Minister has explained this very well. We also think it is essential to remember that it has been a great deal of work that has been started around the Family Court House ^ that it has been troublesome and difficult and that the reason why we did it was to put the child at the centre. We are also looking forward to having a full review of the VIVE report so that we can become even wiser. In fact, I also think that the ongoing reviews we have had have shown how the work is in the Family Court House. Now we have a report that I look forward to going through.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184311	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184315	Thank you so much. Yes, we have had very, very many reviews, as the rapporteur says, just not really acted on what has just not really happened. We have tabled a great many motions for resolutions, both on the issue of guilt in court cases, on Article 7 cases directly before the courts, on the issue of contact-safely monitored association, on ensuring that there are the effective remedies needed so that we cannot just harass and keep the child away from the other party. Then I would really like to hear the Socialist rapporteur, since the Social Democrats cannot support this motion for a resolution: where does the Social Democrats and the Social Democrats' rapporteur think we should take action to ensure that the child cannot be kept completely unpunished?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184402	I think that barely a billion. kr. to support the Family Court House in general is a very large amount, which also shows a significantly underfunded Family Court House. There we have gathered almost a group of people, without the rapporteur's choice to say that we believe in this. We believe that the shift that has been is for the good of the child and that we have to run this thing. When you make such a big change of culture, where you put the children at the centre, there will be something where you have to do things differently. I do not recognise the description that the rapporteur mentions in relation to the principle of whether or not harassment is carried out just to cause harassment. I mean, we have harassment clauses, and I just think it is important to say that the cases have two sides.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184512	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184514	Sometimes I think it must be extremely easy to be left-wing, because it is, as if you are thinking: we just put more money into it, then the problems will solve themselves. Unfortunately, the vast majority of people know this is not the case. It is a very easy solution to come with, but it is not the truth. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur two things. Number 1: Does the rapporteur really think that just putting more money into a system where there are some things that do not work, it automatically solves itself? Number 2: Does the rapporteur recognize that there is something called parent alienation where parents deliberately agree to alienate the child from the other parent?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184554	I have some doubts as to whether the rapporteur heard what I was saying. It is a collective Parliament except for New Citizens who will actually support an incredibly visionary and well-thought-out programme that has been put forward by the former family minister from the Conservatives. After all, we have been gathered together in the Folketing, and there were new citizens outside. About the Left, the Conservatives and the Liberal Alliance... I don't think they'll think so themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184633	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510184642	Thank you for the floor, President, and also thank New Citizens who are behind the motion for a resolution which we are debating in this Chamber today, namely a motion for a resolution which intends to launch an independent investigation into the family law system, focusing on how the remedies are applied. And this is an important proposal, because we are now three years into the reform and we really need to uncover the challenges that have filled the debate. With the reform of a single family law system, it was decided to make a fundamental change to the family law system. Here it was decided that the child's well-being should be centered. In addition, it was also decided that families should meet with simple, transparent and predictable processes and that matters should be screened so that the needs of each family are met in the right way. Finally, it was decided that the reform should be evaluated in 2023, four years after its implementation, and now we are three years into the reform and challenges of the Family Court House. As new citizens also write in their motion for a resolution, there are many different challenges in the House of Family Rights that we have to deal with. First of all, it is about the length of the proceedings and, at times, also the arbitrary procedure, which several of the horror stories have also told us about, problems involving high personal costs and which can damage contact between children and parents and, for some, forever. In addition, it is also about the massive problems with fellowship chaikane, an issue that has become even clearer to the thousands of parents who go through a divorce each year, after the TV 2 documentary with the children as weapons rolled over the screen here in the last month, and thanks to TV 2 news for focusing on this. Unfortunately, however, this is also about the lack of statistics. We simply do not know the extent of this problem in depth because there is no proper statistics on it. Now others have also mentioned it with VIVE's progress reports, but we therefore need to take the small progress reports that are already on the table quite seriously. This concerns, among other things: on the experience of the National Research and Analysis Centre on Welfare, VIVE, which I am sure the Minister and the rapporteurs are already familiar with. I do not know how many people there are, but we have discussed it so much already, and one of the things that the reports include. is that there are several children who do not have association with one parent, among others. because the association is paused while the case is being dealt with and that there are also problems with parents, especially parents with complex cases, not having sufficient help. And then there's too many kids in this system that's in disarray. So all in all we see a system which is in difficulty and which in some areas is difficult to meet the needs of families and, most importantly, children. In the Left, we would like to see an advance on the evaluation and that we are starting to negotiate longer-term measures to improve the Family Court House. Because if we really have to move something, and if we really want to improve this, then we also have to look at all the relevant angles in this case when it comes to the economy, the processing times or the use of the system for example. This is why we in the Left also believe that it makes sense to initiate the evaluation and to examine how the remedies are used and whether they are sufficient, as has been proposed by the new citizens in the resolution here today. Finally, I would just like to say that, of course, as I have said many times before, it is totally unacceptable that there are parents in this system and, most of all, it is unacceptable that it is the children who are left as the losers, and frankly I think that there are some parties in here who are failing their responsibilities. For this has consequences, and for some children it means that they lose contact with one parent, for some children it means that they lose contact with one parent forever, and it is not only parents, but grandparents, siblings, and from here we cannot ignore that. With that said, of course, the Left supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the New Citizens' Party, and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185119	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Ina Strejer-Schmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185131	Thank you. We can easily agree that there are problems in the family law system, and it may also be that further investigations into the area are needed. But I think that we should first wait for the meeting we have next week with the VIVE report, and then we can decide whether further studies are needed. And if there is, we are also positive about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185200	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185235	Thank you to the new citizens for tabling the motion for a resolution here to initiate an independent investigation into the family law system. All the social rapporteurs here in the Danish Parliament have followed the implementation of the Family Court House closely. Most recently, we were all at a status meeting on implementation here on 31 March this year together with the Family Court House, and an evaluation has also been launched in 2024. In this context, we in the Conservative People's Party believe that an independent study of the family law system can be used to be part of the evaluation, so that we have a better basis on which to evaluate. That is why the Conservative People's Party will support the motion for a resolution, and we would like to help to draw up a joint report which will launch an independent investigation into the family law system. Our focus will always be on ensuring the child's best interests, and we would therefore like to have the best basis to work on to ensure the child's best interests. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185349	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185352	I would just like to say a thousand thanks to the Conservative People's Party. I know that the Conservative People's Party had a conservative minister in charge of this family law system, so I'm just extremely happy that you're going to come along now to get a look at where we can change some things. Of course, in New Citizens we have the clear position that there are quite a lot of things to change, but I think it is very nice that the Conservative People's Party can support this motion for a resolution so that we can get this independent investigation started. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185426	Thank you for your comment. We think it is important that, in evaluating it, we have as broad an evaluation basis as possible. And there we are thinking that such an independent study of can be included in the whole of that, so that, when we have to evaluate, we simply have a broader basis from which to look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185446	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then Mrs Karina Adsbøl, outside the groups, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185457	Thank you. Let's do this again. After all, we have had a great many debates on family law, on the Family Court House, on the Social Affairs Committee, we have called for consultations, we have had a question time, and we have tabled motions for resolutions on each side of the House, at least on the other side of the House, and I myself have done so, because it is the case that children should, as a starting point, have the right to their mother and father. But when we see how this happens in some cases in practice, it is not the child's right. And then we have a prime minister who went to the polls, I almost said, and at least said that she wanted to be the prime minister of the children. Then one might wonder why the government does not take this more seriously with the examples that we also hear and look around, and thus does not recognise that in some cases parent alienation occurs. Of course, this is also about ensuring a good culture in the Family Court House. But what I'm wondering is that it's a matter of association. After all, no one thinks that children should have association at home with a parent who exposes them to some serious things. But there we have the children's houses, because the municipalities are obliged to use the children's houses whose children are today subjected to violence or abuse. Today there are approx. 300 children are losing contact with their parents and, as has already been said today, it is not just their parents, it is also siblings, grandparents and their families in many areas. I very much agree that it is important that we bring this forward. Now, in this motion for a resolution, new citizens are proposing an investigation, and the government cannot support that. It is actually amazing when the government orders nothing but to set up commissions and have investigations carried out itself or committees of experts, because we need to hear what the experts think. But when it comes to this resolution, yes, you cannot support it. However, I would like to say that I support the intentions that exist and would also like to support the motion for a resolution. I think it is important that we take seriously the approaches and documentaries that citizens have in meeting with the Family Court House. I think we have to act; I think we have to make things right. Because when there are some things that don't work, we have to make it right. I believe that we, as politicians, are obliged to do so. So at least I'm backing up on this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185756	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Just a brief comment at the last minute. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185802	Thank you so much. I would just like to thank the rapporteur. I fully agree with the rapporteur that there are simply no good arguments for not being able to support the fact that we are going to examine this in depth, in relation to whether there are the effective remedies to be used when faced with these situations, for example with parental alienation. So I would just like to say thank you to the rapporteur for his support and thank you for the good cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185825	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185826	I would like to thank myself for the cooperation that we have had in this area. I'm thinking that at some point it's gonna bear fruit. We'll continue the fight to improve this. Another point in relation to that is that I do not think there are any good reasons why you do not get to the bottom of things unless you are afraid of what it shows. In any case, however, I think that this is an important area, and I am really very sorry for the families and children who are affected, also in the context of not getting the right support and not the right help, and the long processing times that are in the House of the Family and so on. etc. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185910	Thank you to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Now there are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the proposers. This is Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510185925	Something is the rat in the state of Denmark. So briefly William Shakespeare put it in the paragraph • Hamlet; so briefly it can be said about the family law system. In New Citizens we have long struggled to undo the failed and devastating system. There is much evidence to suggest that there is a lack of equality between a resident and a visiting parent when the case comes to the Family Court House, as has been confirmed most recently by a new research project. About 25-30 percent. By divorced couples with children, their case is dealt with in the Family Court House, typically because they disagree on the distribution of association. By 2020, 86% was spent. of all resident mothers, while fathers were typically together parents. And this is where the problem arises. Mom and Dad have different legal starting points from the beginning, and in our society it is most often the danger that moves out and therefore becomes a parent of togetherness. But for me, this is not about gender, but it is not worthy of a rule of law that we have legislation and a system in which one parent is legally weaker from the outset than the other. The research project concludes, among other things, that the parent gets a different type of advice from the Family Court House, and at the same time their words have less weight than the parent when it comes to making arrangements for association. It is deeply untenable. I've been able to tell you about Søren who was abandoned and lost his children. I have also been able to tell you about Jan, who also lost his children. And I have told of Martin, who, despite the fact that the court had innumerable times determined that he and his ex-wife should have their common daughter in a 7-7 scheme, now only sees his daughter 4 hours every 14 days because the mother has obstructed the association and caused conflict. The new family law system was supposed to ensure legal certainty in family law, but it does not, on the contrary. The reason must be found in both the Parental Responsibility Act and the Family Court House's practice. Here the issue of guilt in a so-called high level of conflict has no bearing on the issue of association. Of course it should have. The proceedings also go too slowly in the House of Families, and when the case is finally closed, it has to be passed on often and many times to the courts and settled there. In the meantime, years may have passed when one parent has not had the opportunity to associate with his child. It is a slow process that holds both parents and children in a conflict that is allowed to develop to the detriment of both children and parents. That is why, on this basis, I and the New Citizens' Party tabled a motion for a resolution to put the case straight in the courts bypassing the House of Family Rights. This will shorten the process for the benefit of parents and children, because it is a state of nightmare to wait for matters to be settled when, as today, they are dragging on for up to a year. Unfortunately, however, it was voted down. But in New Citizens, we don't give up. That is why we are also discussing this proposal today. Thank you to the parties that support it. Thanks to the Danish People's Party, thanks to the Left, thanks to Karina Adsbøl, outside the groups, and thanks to the Conservative People's Party. In fact, with this proposal here today, we are proposing that we examine how we can ensure that the judgments handed down are also respected. We want an impartial investigation of the Family Court House to ensure that judgments are implemented and not ignored... so-called effective remedies. Hopefully, it will provide an overview of how the Family Court House deals with social affairs. Something is the rat in the state of Denmark. But it's not too late to change it. That is why I and New Civil Society continue to fight for legal certainty in the field of family law, because the bond between child and adult must remain intact whenever possible. Family life must be protected even when families are divided. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510190348	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen for her rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510190405	The debate is open. First of all, we must welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510190435	Thank you for that, President. The bill we are going to deal with now is a proposal for a new main law on the treatment of DNA profiles and fingerprints by the police. DNA profiles and fingerprints are, after all, two important types of evidence which may be essential for the decision of criminal proceedings. That's why it's important that the police have the best opportunities to use these tools to investigate and solve serious crime. The DNA Profile Register is currently regulated by the DNA Profile Register Act, which is of an older date, and there is no specific legal regulation of the fingerprint register. With this proposal for a new main law, it has been decided to update the rules and bring them together in a single law, which then provides for, among other things. capture, storage and deletion of DNA profiles and fingerprints. The draft law continues some of the current law and practice in this area, but it also contains a number of new measures. This is particularly the case in relation to deletion of data. Firstly, the proposal introduces differentiated erasing periods for data on accused persons. The defendant's information is being stored for 10 years today. The bill adds up to erasing periods of 10, 15 and 20 years respectively. Whether it is 10, 15 or 20 years is determined on the basis of the penalty for the infringement for which the charge has been brought. Secondly, it is proposed that differentiated deletion periods should also be introduced for information on convicted persons. Today we have an 80-year-old age limit for deletion, which it has been estimated that we cannot maintain within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. The bill adds up to deletion periods of 15, 25 years and 40 years respectively for information on convicted persons. Here, too, it is suggested that the retention period should be determined on the basis of the penalties for the infringement committed and the conviction for which it was committed. Thirdly, the draft law provides that information on convicted persons who have been convicted of a crime with a penalty of more than 16 years in prison should not, as a rule, be deleted. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the police should have the best possible tools to solve crime. In this respect, it is, among other things, the case. essential that as many important information as possible be retained for as long as possible. We therefore think that this is a good proposal which will ensure the ability of the police to use these important tools. We support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510190653	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510190658	Thank you. I just want to hear something from the rapporteur. In some of the hearings it is suggested that there may be a problem in relation to the practice of the Court of Human Rights, Article 8, as regards those who are accused but not convicted, so that these lists will be extended. What is the attitude of the Social Democratic Party towards this in relation to the rather critical consultation responses?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510190729	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510190731	What I have to say to that is, of course, that it is the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that this is within the framework of the conventions and our international obligations. That's one of them. And some of the reasons why we're making changes, and now we're bringing this bill in. That is because there was also an assessment that old legislation did not meet the obligations that we had. So we're leaning on the assessment that comes from the Ministry, so this is within the framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510190759	Then I would like to thank Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510190816	Thank you. It is one of the police's important investigative tools that we are dealing with today, and here we are working on common legislation that concerns both recording and storage and deletion in the DNA and Fingerprint registers respectively. That is something that we in the Left can endorse. The proposal is designed in such a way that non-convicted persons have a time limit which differs according to the criminal framework of the crime for which they are accused, 10, 15 and 20. And for those convicted, it's 15, 25, and 40 years. The 80-year period has been abandoned following criticism by the Human Rights Council. So what we have now is only that it is the prison sentence and people who sit and have a sentence of 16 years who here are forever at home in the registers here. We in the Left think that this is an excellent balance made by the Minister here. In this regard, we cannot fail to note that there is a concern for people when it can be established that they are innocent, that is to say those who have their prints in the registers and who can be seen that they have nothing to do with the work in question. It is a proposal that we can support in every respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510190946	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no brief comments. Then it is the SF's rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510191008	Thank you to the Minister for bringing forward this bill. I must say straight away that our legal rapporteur cannot be here in the Chamber today, and I have therefore promised to read the speech on behalf of her. The proposal we are debating is an exercise in balancing various important considerations against one another. On the one hand, we have a serious regard for privacy, which is a completely fundamental right guaranteed by both Danish and international rules, and on the other hand, consideration of the work of the police and the possibility of solving crimes with the effective investigative tool provided by DNA profiles. In the SF we generally welcome the fact that the bill envisages the introduction of a unified and simpler regulation of police registers. Everything else is to be expected to provide greater clarity on the legal basis for those who end up in the registers, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned. We also welcome the fact that the draft law provides for the introduction of shorter time limits for the deletion of information recorded in the investigation of less serious crime and where the case leads to a conviction. At the same time, the bill provides for considerably longer erasing periods of up to 20 years for DNA profiles for persons charged but not convicted. It is therefore a doubling of the current 10-year storage period, and it is at the high end. However, we must also remember, of course, that the time limits for the deletion of previous statutory audits have been considerably higher and that they have been regularly adjusted up and down as a result of the case law of the Court of Human Rights and political action in addition. As far as the situations in which there is actually a judgment are concerned, we in the SF are of the opinion that erasing deadlines based on the actual amount of punishment rather than on the penalty for the charged charge will provide a better balance between the concern for police work and the concern for privacy. It is also clear that such a model does not exist for purely technical reasons. The question is: have we struck the balance correctly with this proposal? It is important for us in the SF that the extended erasing periods for defendants, but not convicted persons, do not compromise the practice of the Court of Human Rights or lead to breaches of Article 8. Several of the consultation answers suggest this will be the case. We therefore need to clarify the compatibility with our international commitments before we finally deal with this very important proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510191238	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. There are no brief comments. Then the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510191251	Thank you very much. The proposal here introduces differentiated erasing periods for deletion of DNA profiles and fingerprints, and it is therefore good that we have differentiated erasing periods, because there are doubts as to whether the current legislation meets our international obligations. However, in the Radical Left, we are critical of the retention of DNA profiles and fingerprints when it comes to the non-convicted, as formulated in the draft law. That is why we would like to examine the possibility of an amendment similar to what the Institute for Human Rights recommends in their hearing response, namely to exempt those who have not been convicted. It is about the same thing that the SF rapporteur mentioned just now, namely whether we are going to violate the right to privacy, and we would like to look into the possibility of an amendment before we decide on how we approach the overall legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510191355	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510191404	Thank you. Recording fingerprints and DNA in connection with the investigation of certain cases may make sense. It makes sense if it is done for the purpose of proof. However, we have a register that today contains DNA profiles and fingerprints of thousands of people who have never violated the penal code, and we think that in the Enhedslisten is far-fetched. You may be unlucky that your description just fits with someone else's, that the police have written a wrong floor on a search warrant, or that you just stood in the wrong place at the wrong time, and all of a sudden your very sensitive information like fingerprints and DNA has become state property, and then you are in a register for years, even if you haven't done anything. Even if you are compensated for wrongful arrest, the system is arranged in such a way that you will still be treated as guilty, and even if the real perpetrator is found and convicted, you are still to be regarded as a person who is dangerous to the community. How changing governments have been able to justify this is still a mystery to me. In our view, it is a huge step to take action against people who have either been acquitted or have never been accused of having been accused of having been registered in a DNA register for many years. In our view, one should have the practice that when people are acquitted or there is no charge, they must be treated like all kinds of other innocent people and therefore no longer appear in the register. In our view, that would be the right way to deal with it. But that is not what we are dealing with today, because those rules already exist and to have the rules put together in one place, so it is easier for citizens to understand the legislation, we think it is very positive, and we are glad that the government is trying to do so. But again it is only a tiny part of what we are dealing with today. For what we are really dealing with today is a further extension of police powers to register innocent people. Now innocent people are not only to be registered for 10 years, but instead for 15 or 20 years. So what we are dealing with is another restriction on citizens' right to privacy. It is another step on the road to the surveillance society, which we know was at least high on the wish list of the former Minister of Justice. It is also clear that the risk of crime for the group of persons who have previously been charged with criminal offences but who have not been convicted subsequently and in the next few years or have been charged with crime is generally likely to decrease, the longer the period of time elapsed when the person concerned is not charged with any criminal offence. This is how the Ministry of Justice writes in the commentary on the consultation table, and I do not understand how it can be used as an argument to extend the period during which innocent citizens will then be registered. On the contrary, this should lead to a reduction in the period. Another argument being put forward is that it makes the work of the police easier to have many DNA profiles to look up, and that is how you can argue for many things. I am sure that it would also be much easier if we were all equipped with a GPS, that there was surveillance on every corner of the street, and that we had a ban on citizens having curtains, so that you could always see what is going on in private homes. Hopefully we'd all find that crazy. In the Enhedslisten, we do not support mass monitoring of citizens just because it makes police work easier. We don't support mass surveillance either, just because the police's work can then be done by a computer instead of by a cop. That's why Enhedslisten can't support this bill either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510191802	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510191820	The Central DNA Profile Register is essential for the police's ability to investigate and solve crime, including identifying a person. The bill here makes a single main law that regulates both fingerprints and DNA, and changes on the erasing deadlines. I think that the proposal has found a good balance between the concern for police work and the concern for privacy, and that is why the Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510191855	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. There are no brief comments. Then it is DF's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510191912	Thank you. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to say a few words about this proposal, which is, I believe, the debut of the new Minister for Justice in Parliament. But no matter what, this is about solving crime, and the Danish People's Party doesn't really have any good feelings about it. This proposal amends some deletion deadlines for the fingerprint and DNA records so that the deadlines for deletion are extended. At the same time, this is really being put under the same legislation, which makes very good sense, as there is not a big difference in principle between fingerprints or DNA. It's about the same result. It is a means of identifying people and thus of solving crime in this context. After all, it is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party think that if you have been charged or convicted for something criminal, the police should be able to keep your fingerprints and DNA forever. Because if you have committed crime, that is one of the consequences you have to live with, namely that you leave traces not only of the wrongdoer but also of the police records. And later, the police run into these tracks, they can easily solve the crime. There are, moreover, a number of examples of this which have been possible, including in some of the really serious cases. Now there seems to be no majority in favour of the deletion deadlines, so we must live with the Danish People's Party, which then differentiates, according to how long the trail must be secured, depending on which crime you are convicted of. So from the current maximum limit of 10 years to 15, 25 and 40 years respectively, it is absolutely a step in the right direction from the point of view of the Danish People's Party. Strangely enough, there is no majority, apparently, in order to keep this information forever, and this may be linked to this judgment that changing governments have wanted to comply with. But if, instead of helping them to be saved longer than they are now, we are, of course, prepared for what is being proposed in this proposal. But it is clear that we will check at the committee's reading whether it is possible to push the deadlines further, because the more crime, especially the serious crime we can solve by having this information, the better. There are ugly things, for example. The one with the Amagerman, the recent killing in Herlev, which fortunately, maybe, is being solved, there is the Emilie Meng case, which has not yet been solved, apparently, and many other cases where it can be a very good means to keep the information in the systems for a long time too. So why have you ever thought of deleting this information? We find it hard to understand. So we will check during the committee procedure whether it really is not possible to extend and would like to abolish these deadlines altogether, so that the information can be kept as long as possible for the benefit of the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510192306	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There are no brief comments. Then I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber immediately, no, and so I would like to welcome the Minister for Justice, who has not made his debut but who has been here before. Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510192324	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the legal rapporteurs and Mrs Bech-Nielsen for the good speeches we have heard here today. This is, of course, an important legislative proposal that we have to deal with. It's about two important tools in the police toolbox, DNA profiles and fingerprints. DNA profiles and fingerprints may be crucial to the ability of the police to locate and apprehend persons who have committed crime, and therefore the regulation of DNA profiles and fingerprints registers must be updated and up-to-date. The DNA Profile Register Act is about 20 years old and needs a service review, and there is no specific regulation of the Fingerprint Register. Since the purpose of both one register and the other register is to help the police identify persons in connection with investigations, a single legislative framework should be established for the registers, something clear and simple that we can relate to. We therefore propose a new main law introducing a single, specific regulation of the police's treatment of both DNA profiles and fingerprints. The law will thus regulate both the recording, storage and deletion of the information. The draft law provides for the continuation of some of the applicable law and practice. At the same time, however, we are proposing a number of new measures, in particular for the deletion of data. Firstly, we propose to introduce differentiated erasing periods for data on accused persons, i.e.: for persons who have been charged but have not been convicted of the offence. The data of such defendants are currently being stored for 10 years, but with the bill we set up to delete deadlines of 10, 15 and 20 years respectively. We do this because a longer retention period promotes the police's ability to solve crimes. The more information, the more likely there is for what you call a hit, where you can find a perpetrator. We propose that the retention period of either 10, 15 or 20 years be determined on the basis of the penalty for the infringement for which the charge has been brought. This should help to ensure that information from persons who have been charged with serious offences is kept for longer than that from persons who have been charged with less serious offences, in other words, the higher the penalties, the longer the retention, the maximum. 20 years. Secondly, we propose to introduce differentiated erasing periods of 15, 25 and 40 years respectively for information on convicted persons, that is to say. persons who have been charged and have been convicted of the offence. The proposal is to be seen in the light of recent practice by the European Court of Human Rights, and it is in this context that the Ministry of Justice's assessment that the 80-year age limit for deletion cannot be maintained within the framework of the Convention. The draft law provides for the retention period to be determined on the basis of the penalty for the infringement for which the offence has been charged and, in this case, for which the judgment has been given. We also believe that information on convicted persons who have been convicted of a crime with a penalty of more than 16 years in prison should not, as a rule, be deleted. However, any registered person may request the deletion of his or her data, which the police must meet if, exceptionally, the police importance exists and should give way to the consideration of the data subject. The measures involve the complete abolition of the 80-year rule in force for deletion. In other words, we are moving from a time-limit based on age to a time-limit based on the nature and nature of the infringement, which, in my view, makes better sense. With these comments, I would once again like to thank you for your contributions and look forward to the further consideration of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510192716	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510192729	The debate is open and first of all we must welcome the Minister of Justice. Welcome back.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510192749	Thank you for the words and thanks to the authors of the motion for a resolution. Data security and ethics are important issues, and these are issues that only become more important over time as technology develops. With this proposal, the proposers propose that the government put forward a bill which would transfer the Data Protection Agency to the Danish Parliament. At the same time, it is proposed that future legislative proposals in the comments should include mandatory assessments of the consequences for the processing of citizens' data. Finally, it is proposed that the Dataetic Council should be consulted on all legislative proposals relating to the processing of citizens' data. I fully agree, of course, that we in Denmark must ensure that citizens' data are processed legally and safely; there can be no two opinions on that. Having said that, the government cannot support the resolution. In relation to the proposal to move the Data Protection Agency from the Ministry of Justice to the Folketing, the proposers point out that bodies performing democratic control should be independent of the government and the executive. The proposers therefore propose that the Data Protection Agency be placed under the authority of the Danish Parliament, as well as the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament and the National Audit Office. However, the Data Protection Agency is already an independent authority. The Board of Governors shall be composed of a Board, the Data Council, chaired by a Supreme Court judge and a secretariat. Monitoring exercises its function in full independence, and supervision therefore lives inter alia. also up to the requirements of EU rules for independent supervisory authorities. I think that is important. This means that the government does not We therefore consider that there is no need to change the organizational anchoring of the Data Protection Agency, for example. by placing supervision under the authority of the Folketing. In this context, it may be mentioned that supervision monitors both public and private compliance with data protection legislation. In this context, the Data Protection Agency may, for example, take legally binding decisions on injunctions and issue administrative fines. Among other things: in the light of the powers and the supervision of private individuals, the Data Protection Agency differs significantly from the supervisory bodies which are currently anchored in the Folketing, whose core task is to control the public administration on behalf of the Folketing. Against this background, the Danish Data Protection Agency is not naturally located together with the other bodies of the Danish Parliament. And that is also why I believe that the current organizational anchoring of the Data Protection Agency is most natural in the light of more fundamental considerations. As I have said, the authors of the proposals want all the comments of the draft legislation to include a mandatory point on the implications for the processing of citizens' data. According to the legislative quality guide, the comments of all legislative proposals should include a number of mandatory points on the impact of the proposals. The points shall include a description of the impact of a legislative proposal in the field concerned. The points are mandatory in the sense that they have to be included in a draft law's observations, although there are no consequences in the field in question. The mandatory points include: economic, implementation implications for the public, economic and administrative impact on business and administrative consequences for citizens. There is no mandatory point today on the consequences for the processing of citizens' data. However, all significant consequences of a legislative proposal should be reflected in the observations of the draft law, regardless of whether the consequences are covered by a mandatory point or not. Furthermore, it is expressly stated in the Legislative Quality Guide that the comments should include a point on the relationship with data protection legislation if the draft law gives rise to more extensive consideration of it. In this case, it must be placed as an independent point immediately before the mandatory points. It is the government's view that a mandatory point, as proposed, will lead to further red tape of legislative work, longer legislative proposals and something that does not match the added value that might be achieved. In addition, additional mandatory points are likely to lead to longer legislative proposals, since more often than today a description of the consequences for the processing of citizens' data will have to be included, thereby losing the clarity that is meant by the mandatory points, without the added value for the quality of the law justifying it. That is why we cannot support that part of the resolution either. The same applies to the last part of the motion for a resolution, which deals with mandatory consultation of the Data-Ethical Council. It is also clear here today from the legislative quality guide that authorities and organisations that will be affected by a legislative proposal should be consulted. Therefore, the Dataetic Council should already be consulted today on legislative proposals relating to their territory, just as everyone, including the Dataetic Council, can follow the consultation portal and respond if they so wish. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510193243	Thank you to the Minister of Justice for the speech. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510193250	I have to say thank you for your speech, but I really think it is very disappointing. But first of all congratulations on the new ministerial post. I simply believe that the Minister for Justice has misunderstood if he believes that these points are covered today. To take the first point, the Digital Security Council simply believes that the Data Protection Agency should not be placed under the authority of the Ministry of Justice. But in addition, it was a unanimous Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, including members of the Social Democratic Party, who, after the See and Hør scandal, decided to move the Data Protection Agency, precisely so that there would be no doubt about it. I would also like to say that, in a table just one and a half centimeters further into a legislative proposal which writes whether it has data-ethical consequences or not, where we sometimes see that it is on hundreds of pages, I simply cannot understand whether it is bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510193402	Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510193403	It is true that back in, I think it was 2015, there was a unanimous judicial committee, but as far as I remember, from when I read it recently, it was not a unanimous Committee on Legal Affairs that thought that the Data Protection Agency should be moved, but a Committee on Legal Affairs that thought that it should be explored. Moreover, since then, in Brussels, a new directive has been adopted, following on from the directive we can now say that there is nothing contrary to EU rules in relation to the Data Protection Agency being the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice as an independent authority. It is, of course, an independent authority, and I am sure it is also emphasised by the fact that the Data Protection Agency also raises serious criticism of the Ministry of Justice. So it is not the case that they are influenced by political decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510193457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510193458	In relation to the other two elements, precisely on the impact assessments, one has to say that, although one can write in a legislative proposal today that there are data-ethical consequences, we see that this does not happen, just as the Dataetic Council is not an automatic consultation party in these things either, and we just have a society that is changing rapidly in these years in relation to the use of artificial intelligence and the interconnection of data, and what else that means by legal certainty for both citizens and companies. And that is where I find it disgraceful that we adopt legislative proposals with our heads under our arms, as we do, among other things. I saw it with a tax proposal at Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510193539	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510193540	I do not think we should adopt legislative proposals with our heads under my arm, and I have been following the sidelines of that bill from the Treasury, and can also understand that if you could do it all over again, you would probably have had some extra consultative parties on that bill. However, I think we should also keep in mind when discussing what to do with mandatory elements of a legislative proposal, that there I have heard that before, too, are people who say that we need to have an assessment of what this means for inequality or what it means for the global objectives or climate consequences, and that in this way we will also end up watering down what is compulsory remarks in the draft law. And I think we should be careful not to expand it too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510193627	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more brief comments, and then it is the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510193648	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the proposers propose three different things: firstly, that the government ensure that the Data Protection Agency is transferred from the Ministry of Justice's area of responsibility to the Folketing; secondly, that future legislative proposals should include a mandatory assessment of the consequences for the processing of citizens' data; and thirdly, that the Dataetic Council should be consulted on all legislative proposals relating to the processing of citizens' data. Data security and ethics are an important issue and I am sure that we all agree across parties on the importance of the legal and secure processing of citizens' data. In the social democracy, however, we do not believe that the three initiatives proposed by the resolution are the right way forward. In relation to the Data Protection Agency, supervision under the rules of data protection legislation is already an independent supervisory authority, also by the Ministry of Justice. There are therefore no powers of instruction, and supervision itself organises and carries out its own tasks. In relation to a possible mandatory data point in the comments, it is already clear from the legislative quality guide that, if the draft law so provides, the comments of a legislative proposal should include a point on the relationship with data protection legislation. In general, all the essential consequences of a legislative proposal must be stated in the comments. In relation to the Data-Ethical Council, it is already the case today that the Data-Ethical Council should be consulted when it comes to legislative proposals on the processing of citizens' data. Thus, it is clear from the statutory quality guide that all public authorities and organisations, etc. affected by a law, should be consulted on the draft law. We fully agree with the proposers that we should safeguard citizens' data, but we do not believe that there is a need for changes in the areas mentioned. On the contrary, we may be concerned that the proposers will make some already heavy and complicated processes unnecessarily heavier. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510193840	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510193845	The public sector is going through some kind of revolution in these years, but it may be a little invisible to many of us who are not in the engine room. This concerns, among other things: on the profiling of citizens in the employment system, in relation to whether they are at risk of long-term unemployment, and in social law, data are also used, machine learning and artificial intelligence are used. And a great many of those things, if they are used properly, can be a big gain, but if they are used incorrectly, they can pose a huge threat to citizens' legal certainty. This is just an area which, unfortunately, I think is extremely understated on the political side. There we need the help of experts to give us good advice, and I have seen in the context of a host of legislative proposals that this is taking place in areas such as the environment, the environment and the environment. The Resort of the Ministry of Taxation, where the rapporteurs may not be concerned about this area. We simply need some help, and that is why I cannot understand why the Social Democrats cannot support the fact that we are either getting impact assessments or recommendations from the consultation parties who have a great deal of knowledge about this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510193955	Bjørn Brandenborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510193956	Thank you. I and the Social Democrats fully agree with Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen that we must do everything we can to safeguard citizens' data, and my explanation of this is based on the fact that I believe that we have legislation today which also allows us to do so. I do not know about the specific case from the Ministry of Taxation, which both the questioner and the Minister mentioned just now, but I fully agree that we must, of course, ensure that the parties involved in a legislative proposal are also asked. And if they don't, I'm thinking that somewhere in a ministry there's a good reason for that. Otherwise, if you, as a party, think that we should be aware of something or would like to submit a hearing answer, then it is available to everyone to follow the legislative proposals that are being put forward in the Folketing. It's not an excuse for anything. Maybe it's just an attempt to explain.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510194055	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510194105	Thank you. The proposal we are debating from the SF contains three elements. I shall not tire of repeating them, because the two previous speakers have fully described them. Let me take them in reverse order: the latter we think is an excellent idea, i.e. that the Dataetic Council should be a consultative party. I have struck at it, and it seems to be 15 exceptionally competent people, but I also note what the Minister says, namely that they are, I believe, already today. The organisations concerned are being consulted today and there are between them. But if there is no support for it, you can count on the Left. On the other hand, we cannot do that to the other two points. The first is that the Data Protection Agency must be transferred because they are not independent. There I have to say that as far as I can see, the Data Protection Agency is an independent supervisory authority chaired by a Supreme Court judge. I have not seen any inappropriate evidence of the existing structure. That's why I don't see any reason to change it either. With regard to the impact assessments, I have to say that we have a legal quality guide with some mandatory points which also include that all essential points must be described. I really see no reason to make more bureaucracy, as my colleague also mentioned in his last remarks. So that will be a 'no' to the first two points and a 'yes' to the last.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510194227	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. There are no brief comments. Then I do not see any rapporteur from the Radical Left coming a little later, and therefore it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510194243	Thank you. This is a very good There is no doubt that the issue of our data security is going to fill more and more in the whole of our welfare society in the future. We see that the discussion has already been mentioned in relation to the social area, but we also know that in relation to health there is just more and more, and we have only just seen the first small part of it. That is why I think it is very sensible to try to be a little at the forefront of this issue, because it is actually something that is going to fill really, very much in the future. That is why we in the Enhedslist believe that this is a good proposal and we support all three elements. We think it is very reasonable that the Data Protection Agency should be transferred, so that it will be under the Danish Parliament and will also be independent, but operating directly under the Danish Parliament. In fact, we think that is very sensible. We also think it makes sense to have a mandatory impact assessment. It is the case that for some types of proposals in practice it is a line that says: No consequences or anything like that. And then there will be some proposals in which there will be something more, of course because it is important, right? Well, it could, for example. If it is the case that we have to make legislation on health, which concerns how the regions, like managing all the data they have on citizens and patients, are to be managed. Then it may well be that we need to develop a little more what lies in the specific legislative proposal. So we actually think that makes sense; also because, as I started by saying, we think that this area is something that is going to fill more, much more in the future. The last thing about the Data-Ethical Council being a consultative party, I also think it is quite natural that it should be. So overall it is a good proposal and we support it 100%.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510194515	Thank you, sir. Bruno Jerup. There are no brief comments. Then that is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510194523	Thank you. In the public debate there is a great deal of focus on the use of data and ethical issues, both in relation to public authorities and to the private sector. In the Conservative People's Party, we have a very great understanding of the public debate on the use and protection of personal data. It is important that our personal data is handled in a safe manner and that this is done in a sound manner. That was also why the previous government first set up a group of experts and then the Dataetic Council. The Dataetic Council makes data-ethical recommendations and participates in the public debate on data-ethical dilemmas and issues in society in the light of the new technology. The Data-Ethical Council discusses how data-ethics can improve the competitiveness of business. This is an important task because we must give high priority to data protection and the protection of Danes' personal data. The motion for a resolution we are debating today has several elements. Let me start with the elements that the Conservative People's Party can support. The proposers propose that the Dataetic Council should be moved to the Folketing rather than to the Ministry of Justice. However, I lack a heavy argument as to why an anchoring in the Folketing should be better than an anchoring in the Ministry of Justice so that we do not support that part. The proposers also propose an impact assessment of each legislative proposal, without indicating funding for it. We cannot support that either. On the other hand, we consider it extremely relevant that the Dataetic Council should submit consultation responses in the same way and under the same conditions as other consultation parties. I was actually of the opinion that everyone was free to submit a hearing answer, but if that is not the case, we certainly need to ensure that this can happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510194728	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Here you go to DF's rapporteur. There's sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510194749	Thank you. Basically, data is essential in every possible way for the well-being of our modern society. The data then collected on citizens must of course be collected under proper conditions, including controlled conditions on the part of the public. The data collected must also be subject to supervision, i.e. to proper processing of the data. It must then be a supervision that keeps a proper watch that it is going on in the right way. We really think that we are very much indicted by what the proposers are proposing here, namely that we should do the same as we did with, for example. The Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament has an institution under the Danish Parliament which is responsible for this task and which, without drowning in the grant circus, which is probably sometimes in the state, can come to the Danish Parliament and say that we therefore need some more muscles for example. to check Facebook, or whatever it might be, rushing around with our data out there in the world. On the whole, we think it is good that a debate is being held on this issue by the SF and that it is useful to make the Data Protection Agency more independent of the Ministry of Justice and the government. So we would like to take a positive view of the proposal. It may be that there are some things that need to be put on a bit during the committee procedure, and it may be that it should end with a report or whatever you can do, but basically the very idea that you give some muscle to someone who is not within the government's control will be very sensible, we think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510194950	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There are no brief comments. Since I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber immediately, it is now the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510195013	Thank you, President. There is an incredible amount of data on citizens and companies in a country like Denmark. With the CVR register, the CPR register and everything else, we have a long tradition of having an incredible amount of data on our citizens. We have some huge gains in that, and we also have some risks in that. I guess the winnings are well known. It is research, especially on the basis of health data, it is in relation to what we discussed just now, with police investigation of crimes, and it is well-being measurements of our children. On the whole, we gain incredibly much useful knowledge from having really, very much data, but with that there is also a huge responsibility to ensure citizens, also in relation to not sloppy with their data, which we have unfortunately seen. There has been loss of CD-ROMs with sensitive personal information and police records that were exposed to leaks and hacking. Unfortunately, we have a sad 17th place in terms of data security, whereas we are in top three of the world's most digitised countries, and that dissertation is a bit worrying. The two things should preferably go together. One thing is if the data of the citizens are not properly taken into account, but there is also the other element which is about how we use it actively and deliberately. Two and a half years ago there was a young Danish woman, Telli Karacan, who had finished her political science study and had her first meeting at the job center, where she had to fill out a schedule about herself with some information. But some information had already been entered about her, namely her ethnic background. She is a Danish citizen, has lived in Denmark throughout her life and has completed a university education, and she found out that on the basis of her ethnicity she was profiled to be at risk of long-term unemployment. She wouldn't put up with that, so she made a case out of which turned out to be very principled. It raised some fundamental questions about what data and what information can be used to profile people. Because we use profiling as a tool. Of course, the police use it; we know that. But it is also widely used in the employment system and in the social field. We had a discussion, also here in the Danish Parliament, a few years ago about what was called the Gladsaxe model, where, with the best intentions in the world, we would use a lot of data that would have to be combined and used to hopefully identify which children to keep an eye on if they were at risk of disillusionment and mistrust, but how many experts said that we should be very careful, because with this profiling of Danish parents we could try to pre-discount what would happen. In other words, if you get minus points in the public system because your children go to the psychologist or get bullied or you forget a dental bill or, as one of the criteria was, drop a book late in the library, the question is what happens mentally to a population. Then you might start trying to get under the radar a little bit. You don't use public offers, and you don't use the SSP or the school psychologist, because at least you don't have to get into this system where you get profiled and there's data points on you and your kids. There are really, very many gains from the fact that we know so much, both about each other, about our health area, etc., but there are also some major risks to it, and in order to use it as best we can, we need wise people who also draw our attention to when we are going out the wrong way. That was for example. We should like to catch the bad guys, we would like to catch those who cheat, those who cheat and those who launder, and that is why, like trawling the Internet for information, we need to try using machine learning to catch some information. There were just a host of problems in that bill, but it was not caught up by the tax rapporteurs because the tax rapporteurs are not very concerned with data-ethical issues. We subsequently had an expert hearing on the Tax Committee, where some of these experts, among others. from the Dataetic Council, said to us that you can achieve some of the things you want to, but in a better way, and that they would have been able to tell us that if they had been on, for example. the consultation list. That's true. If you have all the time in the world, you can sit and monitor the work of the Danish Parliament and see what is being sent out, but we do have consultation lists because we are interested in knowing what business, NGOs or interest organisations think about something, in order to become wiser and correct our legal work. It is on the basis of that that one element is that one should be a consultative party. Something else are the impact assessments, and I just don't understand sometimes I really spend many and long evenings chewing through the many, many pages of legislation that we are sent • that it should be a bureaucratic addition that out of sometimes 100 pages of one table there was an additional line that said: no data-ethical consequences. I simply cannot see that this is a bureaucratic addition. What I hear today about the work being done is that if there are data-ethical issues, it will still be written in. Firstly, I simply believe that this is factually wrong. That is not happening today, not to the extent that we need. And the second is that if that work were to be done anyway, it would not be a bureaucratic addition. Finally, we believe, as several people have also said, that the Data Protection Agency should be in the Folketing, without of course dictating what to do, just as the Ombudsman and other institutions are also here. It should not lie with an executive authority. The Council for Digital Security has also called for this, and a unanimous Committee on Legal Affairs also agreed in 2015 on the Se and Hør scandal. I would like to thank both DF and Enhedslisten for their support, and I would also like to thank the Left and Conservatives for their partial support. We can, of course, find out in committee how we deal with this. Finally, I would just like to say that I think it is a huge democratic problem that this area does not have any greater attention. Some of you who have been on the platform for the discussion of this bill know something about it, of course, because you are dealing with it, but I just don't think it has the broad attention of the Folketing as it should have. We are simply making a quiet revolution of our entire public sector using artificial intelligence, machine learning, data interconnection, etc., and I simply do not think that, as Parliament, we are well equipped to deal with that, and I think that is a problem. But thank you to all, including those, both the Minister and the rapporteurs, who disagreed with the proposal. I just hope that we can get some more attention in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510195840	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment. This is from Mrs Britt Baker of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510195845	Thank you. I very much agree with the rapporteur that this is a subject which deserves enormous attention. That is why I was listening to the rapporteur's speech, and I still do not think that I have heard any good argument as to why it should help to lay the council in the Folketing rather than leave it in the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510195906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510195906-2	There are some, both at EU level and in organisations such as Transparency International and others, who believe that this type of supervisory authority should not lie with the executive. That is not to say that in this case the Ministry of Justice is interfering in the work of the Danish Data Protection Agency, but just the uncertainty that may exist, there are many who do not think that the way we divide power in Denmark is appropriate. We should simply not have that uncertainty about the work, because the Data Protection Agency must be able to criticise the government in their territory at any time without any pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510200003	Britt Baker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510200004	So on to something quite different, because in fact I very much agree with the rapporteur that it is really important that we hear from this council when it is the case that we draft legislative proposals. Could we not, like the rapporteur's demand, come to the conclusion of the impact assessment by saying that we are now taking them into the hands of the government? The impact assessment is not necessary, because then it is our task as rapporteurs that every time they send in a hearing we read it and protest. Couldn't you sort of solve it that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510200041	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510200044	That would certainly be a very good step along the way, because Mrs Britt Baker is right that they would then very much point out the problems. However, one might well ask why we then have assessments of economic or environmental consequences or administrative consequences for business in that table. For we also have wise consultative parties who tell us about this when we make legislation in the area that affects them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510200113	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors, Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. There are no more brief comments. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510200138	The debate is open. First, it's the Attorney General. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510200200	Thank you to the President for the floor, and thank you to the authors of the Danish People's Party. I would like to start by saying that the government believes that more needs to be done to help citizens who have been subject to fraud with NemID. It is cross-border and unpleasant to have your information misused by clever criminals, to be charged for goods you have not bought, or for loans you have not taken up. Unfortunately, we have seen such cases in the media several times. We have also seen examples of citizens feeling powerless towards traders who demand payment for example. a loan which the citizens have not taken up. Of course, we should not accept that. Something doesn't work the way it should. If a citizen has enough to refute a claim. It should not be the case that you end up giving up because it is not worth the effort to demand your right and then it is just easier to pay. The motion for a resolution concerns the rules on liability, i.e. when you are obliged to comply with an agreement, for example. to pay for a commodity. Those rules are one of several safeguards to ensure the security of citizens in terms of using NemID and MitID. It is our responsibility to ensure that the rules are up-to-date and effective. This was one of the reasons why the Minister for Finance set up a working party in the autumn, which included: identify the type cases of fraud with NemID and look at the applicable liability rules. The report from the working party was sent to the Folketing on 26 January and it shows that the general liability rules ensure a fair and appropriate legal position. In other words, citizens who have done nothing wrong should not, of course, be on the tab for fraudsters' crimes. Of course that is the case, and that is actually the case today, and that is also why we cannot support this proposal as it stands. But, as I said, it is not enough to have sheep and that is why, in addition to initiatives already under way, the government will do more to help citizens who have been subjected to fraud. We will therefore come up with proposals for better help for citizens who have been subject to fraud, and I would like to come back to that. But first of all I would like to say a little about the general liability rules: if a criminal has borrowed or bought goods on payment by fraud with a citizen's NemID, the general rules determine whether the citizen is bound by the agreement, that is to say to pay. The clear starting point of Danish law is that you do not become bound by agreements that you yourself have not entered into. If your signature is forged by someone else, you will not be bound by the signature. This applies regardless of whether the signature is physical or digital. Exceptionally, the starting point may be waived. It is if a citizen has shown such negligence that, on the basis of the overall circumstances of the case, it is not reasonable that the parties to the contract should bear the loss as a result of the non-validity of the contract. In the end, it will be the courts that make a concrete assessment in each case, and the outcome will depend on the very specific circumstances of the case. According to case law, emphasis is placed on how the fraudster has, on a case-by-case basis, acquired the citizen's identification data, whether the citizen has been aware of the fraudster's possession of the information and whether the citizen has done what was possible to prevent abuse. Following the resolution we are debating today, a citizen who has misused his NemID or MitID data to reach an agreement will never be liable. On the other hand, the consequence is that the risk that an agreement is invalid and cannot be invoked is always passed on to third parties. It can, for example, be done. be a trader who, in good faith, has sold goods on payment which will have to bear the loss in order for the contract not to be invoked. This will apply regardless of the circumstances of the individual case and no matter how lenient the citizen may have acted in dealing with his NemID or his MitID. It is in my view going a little too far, and it will not prevent the fundamental problem, namely that criminals are trying to swindle with NemID and MitID, but when the damage is the ordinary liability rules are clear, they are verified, and I also think they are reasonable, and the courts, including the Supreme Court, have on several occasions ruled that it can only exceptionally be argued that a citizen is liable if his or her NemID has been abused. The media stories we have seen about fraud and, unfortunately, there are too many of them, and I think we have all been outraged, for example. in general, when it comes to pensioners who have been cheated, it shows that it is not really the rules on liability that are the problem. The stories that have been mentioned in the media have not, at least as they are described, been about the fact that a citizen has ended up hanging on the bill of fraud with his or her NemID. The challenges of fraud cannot therefore be solved through the liability rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510200715	The government has already taken a number of initiatives to address the challenges we believe there are in this area. And that is also why we recognise that this is an important discussion. Firstly, the Digitalisation Authority has set up a 24-hour hotline where citizens can get help and guidance on, among other things. the liability rules for fraud with NemID, and the Board has strengthened its guidance efforts through a number of campaign activities. Secondly, the Board of Directors has introduced initiatives to strengthen security through the use of public digital solutions, such as: activation letters when changing the easy account and changing the NemID key card. I think we've all tried that. Also with the introduction of MitID, a number of initiatives have been taken to strengthen IT security through the use of digital signature. New rules have also been introduced on strong customer authentication, which has significantly increased security with the use of both NemID and MitID in the e-commerce. Thirdly, the Minister for Economic Affairs has instructed the lenders' organizations to respect the rules of good practice. In other words, banks and consumer credit companies have a duty to inform their customers about the rules that apply in this area, and companies must finally, fourthly, with the multi-year agreement between the police and the prosecution there is a stronger response to IT-related crime. This is among other things. through the creation of what is called the NSK, the National Unit for Special Crime, which brings together the most specialised competences in the police in one place and which makes it possible for the police to take even harder action against that form of crime. However, as I also began by saying: unfortunately, we have to note that the initiatives already taken are not enough to address the complex challenges that exist, with the fraud of NemID and MitID. And that is why the government will now go across ministries to the workshop and explore the possibility of how to protect and help citizens who have experienced the use of their digital IDs through fraud to make agreements to a greater extent than today. Because we must ensure that those citizens actually acquire the legal position to which they are entitled. The working group must complete its work by the end of the autumn. To conclude, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for having raised, I think, an important debate because, when society becomes digital, criminals find new ways, and it is therefore crucial that we have a sustained focus on security and security through the use of public digital solutions. We must ensure the necessary and effective help for citizens who have been subject to fraud with NemID and MitID, but changing the liability rules does not seem to us to be the right tool to solve those challenges. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510200958	Thank you for your ministerial speech. Sir. Peter Skaarup has asked for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510201004	Thank you. And in and for themselves, even if you do not want to support the proposal, thank you for a positive view that there is a need for help for those who get into trouble here. I have just two questions in this regard. As I hear the Minister, the government agrees that as a victim of NemID fraud, the agreements entered into illegally by a third party should not be subject to liability. That's what I hear, actually. It may not be considered to be the right tool and such a thing, but I actually hear that is not understood. The second question goes on, and the Minister also referred a little to these very obnoxious banks. Now perhaps not everyone had a solid ground under their feet in Denmark, but there are a number of banks which have gone after customers who, by accident or by fraud, have come to provide their key information for use by third parties. What will the government do to help those customers? Because there are customers who have been dragged through the legal system over years and whose lives have been paused completely because of all this machinery that has been set in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510201122	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510201124	First of all, I agree with what I read as the intentions of the proposal. If you get a phone call from a guy who says he's calling from the bank and just needs some information that you sit at home on the couch and give in good faith, and he suddenly buys a charter trip to Ibiza, then you shouldn't be stuck on the bill. Of course you shouldn't. Therefore, the clear starting point is also, the general rule, that you do not hang on to the bill if other frauds occur. However, I think it is reasonable that there is the small exception that it is ultimately up to the courts to assess that if you were aware that someone else had the same NemID card and you have done nothing to prevent it, but perhaps even know that he is going to buy something over the net, for example. a nice new cell phone, so you shouldn't be able to just sit back and say: I didn't do it. Then I think it's fair that it's not the store that's on the bill. Well, you have a tiny bit of responsibility yourself. So there is an exception for the courts to be able to say: you should know that. But the main rule is that you are not liable for what others have signed on your behalf.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510201237	Thank you. Is there a request for another brief remark? There is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510201241	I think the Minister is saying some good things here. I think perhaps in fact that the Minister should take the trouble to look a little more into the matters which, at least in some cases, are on our tables, at the Members of Parliament. There have been some cases in which a bank which knows very well that the customer in question has been the victim of fraud by a third party and knows very well who the fraudster is, in other words, continues to maltage this poor customer over time, in the courts, with demands, with tough lawyers who are expensive, in other words over a very long period of time. Would the Minister please look at some of those cases and see what we can find out together?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510201326	Here you go, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510201328	I have only heard of those complaints on the other hand, I would say, but there you are also frustrated that established banks, for example. do not comply with the rules of good practice, which do exist. And the Minister for Industry has therefore also stressed to banks, consumer credit companies and their organisation that they are therefore obliged to inform customers of the rules applicable in this area and that they must not send reminders or try to get the citizen to pay if they know that the citizen has not taken up the loan and is not liable for it. It may, of course, be relevant to follow up on whether this action by the Minister of Industry has also had an effect, because we must be able to expect that the companies working with this professionally will also be able to comply with the rules that exist on good practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510201418	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more brief comments. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur's list. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510201428	Thank you for that, President. The motion for a resolution calls for rules to be introduced to ensure that, if you are fraudulent and have your NemID or MitID data misused, you do not have to be liable. In other words, I can understand and sympathise with the reasons to which the proposers refer in the proposal, namely that citizens should be able to feel safe and secure on the Internet and should not be afraid to be fraudulent and end up in a large debt. If we cannot then support the proposal because we cannot do so because, as the Minister said, we disagree with the considerations. I fully agree that it can be very uncomfortable and inconvenient to have your information misused by criminal fraudsters who trade and enter into agreements with your information. It is unpleasant for the individual, but it is also a major problem for society if citizens do not have confidence in the IT solutions they need every day. We agree that innocent citizens should not be liable when they are exposed to fraud, but, as we have just heard the Minister of Justice explain, we do not therefore have a legal situation today, where that is the case. We have clear and reasonable liability rules which only exceptionally lead to a citizen being held liable if his or her NemID has been abused. However, it is inconvenient to have your information misused and it is unreasonable that, in addition to being exposed to fraud, you can end up in a situation where you have to go through a subsequent process where you are met by demands from traders. If we are to meet those challenges, it is not the liability rules that we need to change, but some other places we need to take action. We have already heard the Minister stress that the government has a strong focus on security and security through the use of public digital solutions and that many different initiatives have been put in place. And then I am pleased that the government will set up an inter-ministerial working group to find out what we can do more to ensure that the citizens who have been faced with their NemID or MitID fraud have been used to conclude agreements. So we agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution, but the basic liability rules are not the right place to take action, and that is why we do not support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510201624	Thank you, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510201635	Thank you. I think I should start by sketching out what the general rule is today. The main rule, as the Minister correctly stated, is that no liability is imposed in the event of fraud. In other words, something special must be done to ensure that this is done, and in particular, an overall assessment carried out by the court on the basis of how resolved information has been processed, whether it has been advertised in good time and so on, and whether there has been negligence on the part of the account holder at all. So what is it? Sir. Peter Skaarup is quite right in saying that there are several cases where it is said that there has been so much negligence that one will be liable for it, but that is the exception, I have to say. This may not be the latest decision, but it is certainly a case from the Financial Appeals Board. A crook warns a woman that something particularly suspicious is going on in the woman's account. He says he's from the bank and he can stop the suspicious transactions if only the woman gives her account number and key code. The woman does, after which 32,000 kroner disappears. from her office. So the financial appeal board didn't think so, so the general rule is that you don't hang on to it. We therefore need a special irresponsibility on the part of the customer. It was just to make it clear. What, then, is to apply in the future? According to the proposal, you should never be responsible for it yourself, and I therefore think that is a wrong way of dealing with a very good proposal and problem. If I set up my PIN and account number here outside the Folketing, then I will myself be responsible for who could now make use of it. I'm not thinking of anyone special, but I'm the one who's stuck with it. Having said that, I think there is every reason to thank Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup to bring this up, because basically it's also a question of the attitude of the banks, and it's especially some very specific discount banks that are involved in all these cases. I am not going to name them by name, but it is completely crazy what can be allowed to pass. It is the banks that show that it is quite obvious that it is the customer who is liable for it, which is not the case; that it is perfectly obvious that the customer should be in the courthouse and that the customer should soon, which is not the case either. It is only the customers who go to lawyers and other specialists in this that are being brought the absolutely correct belief, namely that they are not liable for it. It is under all criticism that it can be practiced and that it is allowed to run indefinitely where banks cheat customers in this way. Some banks are doing it. They post it as if it is the customer who is liable for it, and it is in situations where the banks cannot be in doubt that the customer is not liable for it. This needs to be done, and I am glad that the Minister intends to do something about it, but I will almost be quite uncomfortable when I hear the word 'working group', because it has already been announced that there will be a long time to go. I hope that does not happen here, because something really has to happen. Is a way to modulate it by sending out warnings to customers before drawing on the account? Is a way to introduce a maximum amount, self-risk and the like? I don't know, but let's see what the working group is getting at. Last but not least, I would like to say that it may well be that the Minister does not receive those representations, but I can inform you that we do so in other countries. Peter Skaarup guaranteed in particular, and so do I. We get inquiries from citizens who have been cheated in this system. They are first cheated by the fraudsters, and then they are cheated in such a way that the bank illustrates the case so that they themselves are liable for it and that they must hurry to pay before they have to go to court. There is every reason why the police are going to investigate these cases, and I am sorry to say it plainly: we are getting daily inquiries from people who cannot understand that the police are not doing anything. I understand that the police aren't doing anything because they don't have time for it. That's the thing in a nutshell. And I am afraid, unfortunately, that the police settlement that large parts of the Danish Parliament have entered into is not helping. There must be completely different resources and buns on the soup so that this can be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510202106	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments, and then we should welcome the SF rapporteur. Ina Strejer-Schmidt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510202116	Thank you. Unfortunately, our usual rapporteur does not have the opportunity to be here, and that is why I am going to give her speech. Over recent years, there have been numerous examples of citizens who have had their NemID abused. It is cross-border and unpleasant to have his information misused by clever criminals who are increasingly moving into the digital world, where the Danes are also spending more and more of their time. For example, two men from Aarhus were convicted of installing a program on library computers across the country, and this enabled them to lure unsuspecting citizens' information and then misuse access to ransoming innocent people's accounts for money. In the SF, we think that citizens who have done nothing wrong should not, of course, hang on to the bill for fraudsters' crimes. That is the way it should be, but it is not in every case today, and we must have done something about it. If it is SF, it must in future be the case that a citizen is held financially indemnified if he becomes the victim of a fraud with MitID, in the same way as if he were a fraud with the Dankort, where he himself is not liable if his credit card has been misused. The proposal here has been made, among other things. on the basis of a question put by the SF to the government, and it is no secret that this area is of great concern to us. So thank you to the Danish People's Party for making the proposal. The government has already put a number of initiatives at sea, and that is a good thing, but we must also note that the initiatives already taken are not enough to address the complex challenges we face with the fraud of NemID and MitID. So we're not in the finish line. The SF fully supports the intention of the proposal here, and it may be that we will also vote in favour of it if it is not possible to ensure better protection of NemID and MitID from above in the legislative process of L 165, which is also under way. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510202308	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then I see no rapporteur for the Radical Left, so we should therefore welcome the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510202320	Thank you. The Enhedslisten's rapporteur has then promised to welcome from the Radical Left and say that they cannot support the proposal. If you get the code for your dance card and then there's someone who steals it and raises your money, you don't of course be liable for it yourself. Similarly, there are many situations in which, as an ordinary citizen, one is safe from booklets if one's NemID has been abused, and Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen also went over the rules for all of us. I think that is a very good thing, because it should not be on the individual to insure himself against the fact that systems that we put in place for everyone do not result in a loss. It is only right that we should have a common insurance model through the banks in this way, so that we do not stand as a private individual and have to run legal proceedings to get our money back. As the motion for a resolution says, we now have very sensible principles as to when we ourselves are liable for abuse, and this is very much a reminder of all other cases where we are exposed to fraud. There's a limit between when it's someone else's fault and when it's your own fault. I think it is very sensible that we have the debate here today so that we can discuss where that limit goes, but I think it might also be that I have misunderstood the intention of the motion for a resolution that it is very far-reaching if you are never responsible for the fact that others have used the same NemID to buy things. It requires both a code, a username and a key card and, in many cases, a text confirmation code, and then there may also be a credit card involved in order to enter into agreements with NemID at all, which is why it is not as easy as for example. to unlock a map code. It is actually necessary that the person who has the NemID has himself passed on his code and key card, therefore there are also cases where it is a little difficult to say that there cannot also be a little of its own fault. If you have your money in a wallet in your bag and some of you stick your fingers in it and steal it, you're not to blame if you lose the money, but if you take the money out of yours and put it on a bench on Strøget right down here, it's no wonder if they don't lie there when you get back 3 hours after. It may have been a rather too funny example, because it is, of course, serious when your NemID is abused, but it is just to stress that the limit may not be in the right place in this motion for a resolution. That is how I think I am going to say it, and that is why we in the Enhedslist are very positive about creating a working group. We are very positive about that part of it. In fact, I would also recommend, taught by other inter-ministerial working groups, that we set a fairly clear deadline for the completion of this group. We often have, for example, in the Legal Affairs Committee. discussed the issue of digital violations, and when the inter-ministerial working group was set up, it took two years for a draft law to come from the Ministry of Business, which does not really address the issue anyway, and we would like to avoid this situation, I think, on the issue of fraud with NemID and MitID. That is why we can say that we support the intentions of this motion for a resolution and that we are, in fact, very concerned about the fact that this working group is being set up, but I am actually most concerned about the fact that there is a deadline on this working group, but perhaps we can come together in committee and make that demand to the government, because if there is something I am tired of, the inter-ministerial working groups are dragging out for years on issues that actually mean a great deal to our citizens. But thanks to the Danish People's Party for taking up the debate, it is important that we do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510202727	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no brief comments. And then it is the Conservative People's Party's rapporteur again. Here you go, Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510202735	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for making this very good proposal. Now I am a little down in the line of speeches, so I can listen to a broad consensus that we are doing something more to protect the victims of online fraud, for fraud with NemID and MitID. The abuse of deeply personal information is an incredibly cross-border experience and there have been many examples in the press that completely innocent citizens have become liable for debts they have not created themselves. This is completely unreasonable in a legal society such as the Danish one, and that is not the intention, and the previous rapporteurs have already explained this. But with this bill, it will be the case that a citizen can never be liable for debts incurred by third parties by fraud, and we are a little concerned about that, because it must be the case that some responsible behaviour has to be carried out in order for society to protect you and step in. So, as a society, we have a responsibility to help citizens when society is becoming more and more digital. The efforts we are making today must be strengthened, and we support the inter-ministerial working group that was talked about, but to go so far as to say that one can never be responsible, we think is going too far. This may well lead to circumvention, irresponsible behaviour and, at worst, agreed gambling or fraud. So we cannot support the proposal as a whole, but we hope that we can land it on producing a report to set up an inter-ministerial working group and to strengthen the efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510202920	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments here either. As there are no more rapporteurs present in the Chamber, we should welcome the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Peter Skaarup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510202938	Thank you for that, and I would also like to thank you for taking this proposal seriously, not so much to understand that it will then be adopted, because we can hear it not just as well, but the issue itself I sense the government can see is there too. Some initiatives have been taken, but apparently this is not enough, which is why we are also looking forward to this working group. I would like to stress, like other rapporteurs, that when you hear the word 'working group', you may get a little goose bump, because when is it finished, and does it even end up in anything, and suddenly there are parliamentary elections, and has everyone forgotten about it and something like that? But that is why we must, after all, seize the straws we can now grasp, which the government may put forward, and that is why, of course, I will also choose to seize it here. I hope it helps, as long as it works, as long as something comes. When it's even relevant to raise this question, it's because for some people it's a deeply complicated world they live in here in 2022. It's a deeply complicated way for older people to attack these things when, for example, they attack these things. shall do something with their digital devices, their IT equipment or their computer display. The other day I was supposed to guide a person who was supposed to change his dance card to a new dance card that belongs with the Travel Card, that is, the possibility of being allowed to pay through this new dance card for transport, and it was something of a jungle even for me, who probably shouldn't have been able to find some of those things at once. It was quite a jungle, but it finally succeeded thanks to the assistance of some a little younger people who came by in that little household, so that those strange challenges that were around it were solved. It's just to say that we have to remember that what we as MPs and as well-versed in IT solutions we also have good IT departments close to in here we think we can just sort of solve, but as it turns out we have difficulty with, for an older person or for someone who isn't completely academic or hasn't followed with time, it's harder to find a solution. This means that if someone is there, for example. pretends to be a banker and calls a person who doesn't know any of these things and asks: What is your NemID anyway? Look at that key card. Is that what you do? Yes, you may well want to do so in your desperation for help, help, help, yes, then you do such a thing. And that is why a proposal like this is being put forward. We may not be hitting the dial, but then we'll see if we can find another model for it. But it is a desperation that is out there, and it is not least desperation when you do the wrong thing and have given this information to what you thought was a bank and which you thought might be reasonable enough or whatever you're doing. The fact that you have given this information can then lead to real destruction for your life, and there are examples of that. Some of us have been confronted with such examples, and we have to note that there are unscrupulous banks who know very well that they do not have the right on their side, or they should not have the right on their side, but they are running away, and they end up getting someone to do what they should not do because fire and fire are being threatened. This is the waters we find ourselves in here, and it is the waters the government has to relate to and listen to a little, i.e. what is going on outside these thick walls of Christiansborg, perhaps especially among the older part of the population. We write a little about it in the comments, and we can see that it is often older people who are being talked about by someone to provide key information, and there are whole chains of people who have called people who have come up a little over the years and have been given this information, and it is large amounts of money that are being defrauded. And how many of them are so firm enough to complain and hold on and grab the bank and read all the small stuff? Hardly many. So there's a lot of money in it for those who keep going, and there's a lot of trouble for them, it's going to hurt, and a lot of people don't dare to fight with that system and give up and pay at box one, and it's really, really, really bad for legal awareness and legal certainty here in Denmark, if that's what's happening. Well, we're gonna follow this closely and, as I said, we're gonna release these innocent citizens from becoming the focal point of what the con artists are doing. We would like to have a limit on what, as a reasonable and law-abiding citizen, we should answer for when criminals use one's identity to inflict on other people. As I said, in far too many cases we see these scammers, we see in too many cases that banks may not be doing so by Danske Bank or Jyske Bank or Nordea, but there are many other banks out there that are luring with you and that, and these cynical banks are running loose, and so they make people feel hard and bad by being in their hands. So there are some things here that are not fair, and there are some things here that the government has to tackle, and some promises have been made by the government today. We are going to hold on and not give up, because we believe that, as members of parliament, although we may have ours on the dry and can find out, we have an important responsibility to deal with those who cannot find out and those who are in the Lord's field. We have to help them, and that's our job in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510203612	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510203615	Thank you very much, sir. Peter Skaarup, who has made this almost a matter of heart. This is certainly a very, very important matter. In this connection, I would like to ask Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, who has been very involved in all this: Peter Skaarup is aware that some of the banks I call the bankers who tell people that they are not liable, that they threaten people that they have to go to jail in situations where they can't get into court, all in the hope that people pay because they don't know better, have been held accountable at any time? That's one thing. And the second is: I am quite sure that Mr. Peter Skaarup gets as many inquiries as I get from people who have been cheated and who have reported it to the police, but where nothing happens because the police downgrade these cases to a degree, so it's harder to file a police report at all. Is Mr. Peter Skaarup is aware of such cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510203711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510203713	I am not aware that some of these banks have been called to account. I think there is some kind of tolerance, also because the police have, as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen is talking about very limited resources to take care of these tasks. If you have to choose between murder or violence or rape, what do you choose? Do you choose the IT criminal and try to go after the person who has stolen an identity, or do you choose the killing, the violence or the rape? Of course, you do the last thing. So I don't think much has happened on this front. I will not rule out the possibility of this happening; I am not aware that it has happened that these banks have been called to account. And I think it will be very difficult with the current appropriations and with the appropriations that the government has wanted to give to the police to get it done; but that it has to be done and that as a country we have to accept that a large part of the crime we know has been transferred to the Internet, there can be no doubt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510203815	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510203817	I mean, the banks are not being prosecuted, nor are the criminals being prosecuted because the police have no resources to do so. How long is that gonna last, sir? Peter Skaarup? In other words, when we do not have a time when we say that we must now come in and protect Mrs Jensen from this? Or should we just accept that this is the state of affairs, namely that there is a free hand for criminals in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510203838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510203839	Well, I think it sounds like we have a good bourgeois priority here. Isn't there something about the fact that there's gonna be a parliamentary election soon? It could be that it was an idea for us to say to the citizens together: Try to think a little about the next time you have to go to the ballot boxes, because it is the legal awareness, it is the legal certainty for the ordinary Dane that it is going to suffer, every time there are cases that are pushed under the carpet. And we just have to admit that there are some of these cases that stay.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510203906	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510203919	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510203937	Thank you for the floor, President. It is crucial for us in the Social Democratic Party that the Danes can have confidence in the Danish tax administration. That is why we must always ensure that the rules we have contribute to this. This is the draft law on tax rules that must be fair and there must be consistency for those who do not comply with the rules of the game. It is proposed to adjust a number of rules. The first is to reduce the interest rate for interest compensation in cases involving companies or persons requesting reimbursement of dividend tax. In this way, we limit the state's loss of revenue as a result of suspected fraud. The next issue is to put an end to interest rate rules, which are basically unfair. They mean that companies which do not correctly state taxes and charges on time can be charged more in interest terms than other companies which have correctly stated and on time. As the rules are today, companies that do not follow the rules can avoid paying interest back in time. On the other hand, those companies which have followed the rules but cannot pay are subject to interest back in time. In this way, then, we will be doing away with the unfair interest-rate benefits that can be right now for companies that do not follow the rules; for it must not, of course, pay to indicate too late or wrong. That is why it is now proposed that interest should be paid in all cases. In addition, it is proposed that the limit on the credit balance of the tax account should be reduced from 350 million. kr. to the normal limit of 0.2 million. kr. Finally, the draft law contains a number of measures for business with the introduction of taxes on nicotine products and the pooling of tax rates on non-smoking tobacco. It is a question of introducing the possibility of reimbursement of duty on non-smoking tobacco and of postponing its entry into force by three months. All in all, we think that this bill helps to ensure that justice and duty go hand in hand. This must be reflected in our tax system, because we need fair rules so that Danes can have confidence in the tax system. The Social Democrats support the proposal, and so should I say from Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, and Kathrine Oldag, Radical Left, that the two parties also do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510204204	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510204208	After all, this proposal provides a tax revenue, so what taxes and charges do the Social Democrats propose that we lower now when you get that money in?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510204216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510204217	It's not relevant to involve this issue in relation to this bill. I have no idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510204227	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510204230	It is more so that we do not just make it more expensive to operate in Denmark etc. Then how can we move something, lower some taxes? Or is this just another step where we turn a little bit on the screw and take a little more from the business community out there, which, of course, will put some of this on the citizens? And I guess they'll just have to pay the bill one more time, and then the Treasury's gonna get more money once again. Would it not be right and proper to send them back through tax reliefs and tax reliefs, so that it goes to zero, so that this simplification makes sense and so that no one is cheated? I agree with that, but so that it should not cost a lot of money at the same time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510204304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510204306	So, what is absolutely crucial to us in the Social Democratic Party in relation to this bill is that we have some rules in the Danish tax administration that we can trust. The tax rules must be fair; there must be consistency for those who do not comply with the rules of the game, and that is what this series of adjustments to the rules contributes to. And I hope, then, that the tax rapporteur from New Civil and New Civilians will agree that this is the way it must be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510204334	Thank you. There are no further brief comments, and we can therefore move on to Mr Beazley's report. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510204340	Thank you for that, President. I must begin my rapporteur's speech by addressing a number of fundamental knots which are in the draft law here in connection with the government's presentation of the bill. It is problematic that a draft law should be tabled on 4 May. It gives 3-4 working days for us rapporteurs to prepare for the first reading. It is also problematic that we only received the hearings last Friday and thus have even fewer days to prepare ourselves. And as I can see, it is even a hearing answer that has been in the Ministry since 14 January, that is to say for more than three months. This short period of preparation means that the Left cannot make our final position on the draft law known today. We simply need more time to delve into the consequences of the elements of the bill here. And I can also say in this connection that we in the committee want a technical review of the legislative proposal. However, let me focus a little on the bill and make some immediate comments on it. We share in the Left Government's ambition that it is important that we close what could be termed tax holes in some of the profit cases we have seen. One of the many consequences of the tax havens and dividends cases has been that lack of registration has in fact been able to prevent companies from paying interest on non-tax payments, and that is not the case. We in the Left also find it unfair that companies that then comply with the rules and register, but which for one reason or another do not have the ability to pay or do not have to pay in time, should pay interest, while companies that have deliberately speculated not to register do not have to pay interest. In the Left, we also agree with what the Danish Industry writes in their consultation reply that it is good that there is a harmonisation of interest rates, so that in all cases interest should be paid back in time. And we in the Left seem to be able to support that principle immediately. The draft law also contains a desire to reduce the interest rate where the State has an interest rate obligation. In the Left, we think it is important that interest rates are broadly looked at across the tax administration area. The interest rate level should be consistent. The reason for the reduction in interest rates is, of course, that the tax administration has worked up a significant matter on, it must be understood, 93,000 cases for the refund of dividend tax, and in order to limit the State's expenditure the interest rate is proposed with this bill reduced. In the Left we think it is positive that there has been a marked increase in control over the profit tax cases and that today there are 100 employees in the area of profits. But we also think it is a problem that the draft law here does not end what is actually the real problem, namely that the number of cases exceeds the tax administration's capacity to deal with cases, and that the matter will thus continue to grow. This is also evident from the draft law. The same issue is addressed by the Lawyers' Society in their hearing answer, where they state that the real problem is not the interest rate, but the long processing times, not least in legal proceedings. There are also a few proposals in this regard. It might be reasonable for the bill to include a possible deposit scheme in which taxpayers can make a voluntary payment if the case is brought before the courts by the Treasury. There could also be other solutions to avoid that the interest accrued ends up being higher than the initial amount due. We need clarification on this in the further work of the committee. I will end with the excise duty on smoke-free products, which is also part of the legislative proposal here, where there are also a number of problems and issues. One could discuss whether that part of the bill should actually be dealt with independently. In any case, we note that there is no consultation letter on this part, and I am aware of at least some in the industry who do not feel heard. It is positive that the date of entry into force is postponed so that industry will have time to implement the solutions. This is, moreover, an issue which the Left pointed out on several occasions when we dealt with that bill, so let us now do it properly this time. So it is a technically complex legislative proposal with a number of issues, and in the Left we look forward to the work of the committee before finalising our position on the legislative proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510204845	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we move on to Mrs Ina Strejer-Schmidt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510204856	Thank you. Unfortunately, the rapporteur has no opportunity to be here. That's why I'm going to give his speech. In the SF, we are concerned that tax rules are sensible and reasonable. We are, both because there must be a fundamental trust in the tax administration, there must be an incentive to follow the rules, but also because tax is something fundamental that defines our community. Reasonable and reasonable tax rules mean, among other things, that companies and citizens pay their taxes on time and report taxes correctly, etc. That is why, overall, we in the SF are satisfied with the ambitions and intentions of this proposal and, of course, we are also very positive that the proposal seems to contribute an additional EUR 0.25 billion. kr. annual and lasting after backflow and behavior. In Denmark, of course, there should not be a starting point with interest rate rules where companies that do not report taxes correctly or on time are better off in terms of interest rates than companies that follow the rules. That is neither sensible nor reasonable. The exchange case has been an unreasonable expense for the Danish Treasury, and in SF we are very open to actions that seek to limit further losses in an already ugly case. That is why we also agree with the government that it is reasonable to lower the interest rate for interest compensation in cases where 4.8-3.4 per cent of cases take place. In the SF we share the intention that persons and companies who have not informed the authorities about their tax liability should in all cases pay interest on taxes on income which they have not wanted or forgotten to disclose back in time. This is a very sensible approach because, first of all, it requires a starting point in which the incentive to forget or cheat is limited. It is a fundamental principle of the Danish tax system that you contribute with what you must; that you neither forget nor cheat. Secondly, it also affects another key aspect: a fundamental trust in the tax administration. The Danes must be able to trust that the fortunes that accumulate in society create value for the common society. In conclusion, I would like to point out briefly that, although the SF would have liked to have seen the date of entry into force of the introduction of duties on nicotine and nicotine bags and increased taxes on smoke-free tobacco, we have an understanding of the process and the delay of three months. With those words, I can mention that the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510205131	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why it is now Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510205142	Thank you very much. I am also a standin today for our rapporteur, who does not have the opportunity to be present in the Chamber today, but I shall present our view in the best possible way with regard to this draft law. The draft law contains a large number of changes to the interest which one pays or receives for money that one owes to the tax administration or that one has for the benefit of the tax administration. It's all in the favor of the state. Citizens and businesses will in future receive a little less interest on the money owed to them by the tax administration and will pay a slightly higher interest rate on the money they themselves owe to the tax administration. Most of this we have already agreed to implement when we made an agreement on criminal justice, that is. the Danish prisons. And then, in the Conservative People's Party too, we think that these interest rate changes are quite reasonable and we can live with them. For example, it is basically very fair to pay interest from day one instead of after 14 days if you pay your tax too late. We would, of course, like the government to set down taxes and taxes once and for all, so that the citizen was given more money and that it was not in the advantage of the state. It sometimes seems that all the forces in the government are spent looking at where you can raise taxes and where you can turn the buttons a little in a way, so there is more in the treasury. But we could hope that at some point some adjustments were made to the buttons, so it was in the benefit of the citizen and there was a little more going back the other way. In any case, we would endeavour to do so ourselves if we had the power of government, and that is also what lies in the financial bill we have presented. However, as I have said, we have agreed on the amendments contained in this draft law in relation to the fact that there should be funding for an agreement, we are part of which we must ensure that the criminals go to prison and that there is also an economy to ensure that they can enter and serve. That's why we support this bill. However, I would just like to put in the small reservation that if the technical review that has been requested were to show that there is more to this bill than what we have committed ourselves to in the agreement on criminal justice, we will, of course, be obscene about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510205351	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510205400	Thank you. As has already been said, the draft law is about the return on money that you have to pay for tax, or money that you have to pay or just have to report. And we really think it is reasonable enough that there are a number of one-sided rules that can be taken into account, if you do not report, in relation to those who are actually doing what they are supposed to do. It is, of course, a strong technical proposal, to say the least. So I also support the fact that there will be a technical review so that we can get to the bottom of it, because it is not exactly clear for a layman, whom we are now as politicians. In fact, I have not spent so much gunpowder on what is the content of the bill itself. I think what I have gone through seems sensible, but I would just like to mention one thing that might perhaps be considered putting into it. I have noticed that several of the hearings focus on the issue of whether you have won a case at the National Tax Court and actually have your mind straight and the tax administration chooses to take the matter further in the courts, so you have to have the opportunity to pay the money that you potentially lose, so that you do not actually get a huge interest expense. After all, many of these tax cases can run for many years, and that is not because the company has done something self-inflicted; they have, as it were, won the National Tax Court. However, the question raised here in the hearings could try to delve into committee work, because I really think it sounds quite reasonable to be allowed to pay the amount that you could potentially lose, at least just to avoid interest costs, if you like. It may be that the Minister can comment on it, otherwise we will have to take it in committee. It is true that it is not part of the legislative proposal, but now other things have come in rather late and without a hearing reply, so perhaps it could be a small thing that could be adjusted to. Well, at least that has been mentioned, and then we have to take it in the committee's work. The Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510205545	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510205551	I have to say that when I read the proposal, I had to read it twice, because it is very technical, but also because I stumbled over the figure of 93,000 cases, which still have to be closed on interest and dividends • 93,000 cases. And then when you just read a few lines down, and if I've understood it correctly, you closed it here, and you started to resume it in 2016, but since 2016, you haven't managed to get this hump down yet 6 years at least you haven't managed to get your hump down. It costs 270 million, as I can at least read it. kr. a year. I mean, it says, as I read, that interest payments in 2021 alone are 270 million. kr. For the things you haven't finished. I really hope that I read it wrong, and then the Minister can correct me. But as I read it, it's 270 million. kr. in 2021 alone, because of the fact that you haven't finished these cases, and if it takes more than six months, you get a right where you are credited with an interest rate, some countries with, I think it was 4.8, or it was 4.6, and some even with an interest rate of up to 7%. We simply need to examine this further, that is to say, because of the slowness and smurf we have not done it properly for six years and then waste 270 million. tax dollars a year. It's a scandal out of the ordinary. We need to see if that is the case. That is often the case with politicians: when they come up with good ideas, who will pay? Well, it's usually someone other than politicians themselves. Then it will be private business or some others, and in this case it is also true. Now you want to do something good, and I think it is fine with the intention that you want to do something good, but again it is another cost for business. Then you can say that you close some holes and the ditto and the date, yes, but there is an additional revenue in this agreement of 245 million. kr. after retreat. So there's a total of 245 million. kr. extra into the treasury. If you got it right with the 270 million. kr., so you didn't have to get rid of them, we're actually up to 515 million. kr., which runs extra into the Treasury. There is not a single cost to business that has been relieved in this. That's how it's often in here in the Folketing, when you say, "Well, we're just doing this." And boom, half a billion dollars we'll find right there. Boom is more money into the Treasury, but there is only business and citizens out there to finance it. So I have a number of questions on this, which I would like to clarify, and I do not expect us to be able to vote immediately for what it is here at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510205859	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I see that we have now reached the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510205910	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank you for a positive reception of the draft law. I fully agree that it is quite technical, but nevertheless important. To the left, I would say that the draft law here follows the normal timetable, but I fully agree that there may of course be a need to read both a very technical legislative proposal and the consultation answers that are available. I know it has followed the normal process, but if that is not the case, then of course I am sorry. But I have the impression that it has done so. However, I fully acknowledge the desire to have a technical review as well, and I shall of course help with that in relation to the committee. To Conservatives I would like to thank you for your support, of course. It is, of course, part of an agreement that we have also made with regard to criminal justice. In fact, there is also a saving here of taxpayers' money in relation to the reduction in interest rates in the area of dividends. It is clear that those who are waiting and receiving a lower interest rate than they would otherwise get will probably experience it as a deterioration, but from the point of view of Danish taxpayers it is, in fact, a saving of the costs we have for the area of profit. I would also like to make a small comment on that, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathiesen, who wonders a little how there might be 93,000 cases, and has it just been sloppy and slow? I simply believe that, unless you have been on another planet, you must have been able to keep up with the fact that we have had a profit tax scandal with suspected fraud from the Treasury of over 12 billion. kr. This, of course, means that we have stopped paying more money off of something that some people have probably defrauded. That is why there is a very heavy procedure in these cases and an extremely high control rate. So, no, it is not sloppy, but it is a question of a broad political majority in the Folketing agreeing that in this area, until you have a better model, you have to control it deeply. It is extremely costly and it is a process in which most parties have been fully involved. Then I would like to say about the draft law here that the Danish state has a high cost of interest compensation due to the accumulation of cases, precisely on the reimbursement of dividend tax. In order to limit State expenditure in an area where the State has already suffered significant losses as a result of suspected fraud, this bill proposes to reduce interest compensation in these cases from 4.8 to 3.4 per cent. a year. As has also been mentioned, trust in the tax administration is important and tax rules must therefore be fair and there must also be a consequence for those who do not comply with the rules of the game. That is why we are proposing to put an end to unfair interest rates, which mean that companies that do not correctly state taxes and charges are placed at a higher interest rate than companies that have followed the rules. Unfortunately, that is the case today. That is why we are proposing to harmonise the tax rules for late or incorrect declarations of taxes and duties by companies, so that in all cases companies have to pay interest back in time. It should therefore not be worth mentioning incorrectly or too late. As the rules are today, companies that do not comply with the rules should not pay interest back in time, but only after 14 days after the tax administration has raised the claim against the company. On the other hand, companies which comply with the rules but cannot pay are subject to interest back in time. That is, of course, not fair, and that is why we are now proposing that in all cases interest should be paid back in time. In line with this proposal, it is also proposed that persons and companies who have not informed the tax authorities of their tax liability should in all cases have to pay interest back in time on the taxes on income which have not been disclosed. In order to ensure that the change in the timing of the calculation of interest does not have inappropriate consequences in situations where it is not possible for companies to calculate the final amount to be paid, special rules are proposed for VAT, energy taxes and payroll tax. The aim is that such perfectly legitimate regulations should not be affected by interest back in time, while at the same time simplifying the rules so that companies with a partial right to deduct VAT in the future can settle for one regulation every year instead of more. As part of the legislative proposal, it is also proposed to reduce the tax account ceiling from 350 million. kr. to the normal limit of DKK 200,000. It is necessary to limit companies' ability to unintentionally use the tax account to store excess liquidity, or in other words, to use the state as a bank. Finally, it proposes that the possibility be introduced to compensate for the duty on non-smoking tobacco in order to avoid situations of double taxation arising in connection with the introduction of stamp marks and the entry into force of the new duties on nicotine fluids, nicotine bags and the increase in taxes on non-smoking tobacco should be postponed by three months. Unfortunately, the termination is a necessity, even though the government would have liked to see its entry into force maintained. However, the process of designing the new stamp has been more time consuming than initially assumed. The design of the stamp marks is now in place, but with three months' delay, and this means that the companies have only been able to start adjusting their production three months later than expected. Let me conclude by thanking you again for the comments that have been made. I look forward to a constructive discussion of the draft law and will, of course, endeavour to answer any questions as soon as possible. And, as I said at the outset, we are, of course, at the disposal of a technical review.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510210458	There is a brief comment. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510210501	Although we were not in the Folketing then, I am well aware of the history of the profit tax scandal. This is one of the greatest scandals we have ever had in Danish politics. I would like to ask whether the Minister is saying that the capacity of the tax administration is not for this hump to be reduced, but that on the contrary, it is going to be bigger than a forecast of when you have the status quo, when you start having this hump brought down, and when you expect that you no longer have to pay a three-digit million each year, because it takes a long time to process these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510210537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510210537-2	I can give that prognosis once we in the Folketing have agreed on a new model to deal with this area. It has been a huge scandal with suspected fraud against the Treasury for over 12 billion. kr. There are 100 people employed in this area, and that is where the capacity challenge is. We already have full pressure on all boilers, so it is not possible to just say that instead of 100, 500 people will have to sit and do this. That's the way it is. We have to give priority to this. This means that as long as there is no new model in place, the hump grows faster than those people can sit and control the cases that are there. The alternative would have been to say that we would then have a lower control pressure, and I understand that the Folketing has not, broadly speaking, been so prepared on top of that scandal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510210624	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510210625	This means that there is no prognosis as to when you start to get this case punk down when we start, for example. to get this closer to zero. I just have to understand that this is going to be a condition and that for the next five years, the next ten years, we have to expect a figure of 300 million. kr. A year because you can't get your hump down under the 6 months? So they say there's gonna be a new system for yups, but how far are you in it? In that system, you've made some predictions as to when, when the new system comes in, you're gonna get this hump down. We must be able to get a little closer than that. A written answer to that is fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510210705	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510210706	Yes, I also think that with all due respect for the 30 seconds of response time I am relying on what I just said, namely that it is clear that when we have an agreement in place and a new model, you can probably make a forecast and find out how to handle that hump. Because I share that interest completely. It's not very good that we have a huge hump piled up. It's harmful to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510210730	Together. There are no further comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510210741	The debate is open. The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510210818	Thank you. I always think that we should start by signing for the motion for a resolution and for the citizens' proposal behind it, among other things. because there have been many citizens out there expressing concern and taking the initiative to make a citizens' proposal. It's always commendable. The citizens' proposal here, of course, also reflects a natural concern about how the Danes, as they are most, should make everyday life at home work in a situation where the prices of gas, oil, petrol and electricity are rising, but also on food, and this is happening at a rapid pace. This is a serious situation for many Danes, and from the government we are following developments very closely. For many households, the current increase in prices may have significant economic consequences. This is a serious situation and I can therefore understand the background to this motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution calls for the removal of all taxes on petrol and diesel. That is not possible today, as the Energy Taxation Directive sets minimum taxes on petrol and diesel for road transport. In other words, it is not permitted, as a general rule, to lower taxes further than the minimum level. Even if it were possible to eliminate taxes completely, it would require billion-dollar funding, and that would increase CO2 and even within the framework of the Energy Taxation Directive it is not easy to reduce taxes on petrol and diesel. A reduction would require funding of about 0.5 billion. kr. annual and increase CO2h. This will make it difficult to achieve another thing that is of great concern to us, namely our climate targets in 2030 • the 70-percent target. Moreover, it will not necessarily be targeted at those people who are most affected by price increases. A reduction in taxes on petrol and diesel is therefore not the way that we in the government want to go, and we cannot therefore support the resolution. Instead of increasing the consumption of fossil fuels by reducing taxes on them, we in the government believe that there is a need to work purposefully to make Denmark independent of fossil energy sources. The invasion of Ukraine has shown the need for this. We need to phase out gas and other fossil fuels, and we need to invest in renewable energy and green fuels for both climate and energy independence. A key tool in this regard is an ambitious CO2 CO2 2 An ambitious CO2 A CO2 Ensuring the green transition is a longer-term response to the current situation with rising prices. In the short term, right now and here, where we see the concern underlying this citizens' proposal, a great many people are hit on the wallet, and that is why we have taken a number of initiatives from the government. Already last year we saw a sharp increase in energy prices, which is why the government and a political majority agreed in December to set 100 million. kr. of to the municipalities. The money must be used by the municipalities to help those who have the least money between their hands, for example. pensioners and cash benefits recipients. It is also possible today for pensioners without a higher supplementary income to receive a heating supplement, and there is the possibility of having the same existing heating supplement re-calculated if the heating bill has increased substantially. However, as energy prices developed over the winter, we saw a need to provide additional help. That is why we set aside another 1 billion in February. kr. for a heat check targeted at households that are particularly exposed to price increases. However, this was before the war in Ukraine broke out, and it has meant that we are in a new situation where the situation with high energy prices can last longer than we expected before the war. That is why we decided in March to add another 1 billion. kr. for the heating check and an additional 100 million. kr. to the efforts of the municipalities. We also see an increase in inflation and, therefore, price increases, for example. food. That is why we in the government have proposed to give an extra tax-free check of 5,000 DKK. to those pensioners who receive old-age pensions and who therefore have an economy which is particularly affected by the rise in prices. In view of the rising fuel prices, we have also proposed raising the transport allowance for 2022 in order to help those who drive the longest to work and who need to use the car in order to be able to do their job. I understand that in these days it has looked a little difficult to land an agreement in the Folketing, but we are still working on it because we actually believe that there is a need for those who have the least should have a helping hand, and we believe that we can do so in a way that we do not put more wood on the fire in relation to inflation. Against this background, therefore, the government cannot support the resolution but takes the situation seriously and we have therefore proposed a number of other initiatives to help some of the Danes hit hardest by the rising prices. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510211338	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510211341	It is fair enough that you think you feel bound by something EU, but, as I heard the Minister say, it was 0.5 billion if you had to reduce the tax on petrol to an EU minimum. Was that correct? I think the Minister mentioned 0.5 billion. in his speech up there. And I know it's late, but now I think I heard correctly, or else the Minister will have to read it again. Does the Minister know what benefit it will have for the citizens out there, that is, what the benefit in hand is for the citizens out there by doing this? I know it's 500 million. smaller, the Treasury has, but what gives it more in hand out there to the Danes? Because it's to help, so the Danes have something more.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510211425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510211426	I don't have a calculation of what that would mean for such an ordinary working family with two children. In fact, what we have proposed with the transport allowance and to give a help was an attempt to give the Danes who have the longest to work a helping hand equal to about DKK 1,000-1 500. a year. I don't have a number on this, so I don't even want to say that I believe, but of course I am happy to reply in writing to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen on that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510211500	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510211502	Thank you, and I'd like to. If I now say that this is a figure which, at least according to the calculations I have, is 3 billion. kr., then it will, knowing that it costs the Treasury 500 million, actually pay approx. 3 billion more in the pockets of the Danes, the population in general. But I would like a written answer to it from the Treasury and perhaps also an answer to what the gain, if you lower it to a minimum, will be on bnp and also on the labour supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510211536	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510211537	Yeah, I have to answer in writing. I can't quite figure that out. If there is a loss on the revenue side of 3 billion, I assume that is also the funding that will be required in relation to the Treasury. However, I am happy to answer a question in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510211554	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. We can get to work on the rapporteur's round, and first it is Mr. President. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510211611	Thank you for the floor. We must now deal with a citizens' proposal which is about the removal of taxes on petrol and diesel, and it is with the sympathetic aim to make it easier for the general Dane to navigate better in the rising energy prices and, moreover, price increases in food, for example. I would like to acknowledge the positive intention behind the motion for a resolution, because in the social democracy we are very aware of the rising prices and their consequences for the Danes. That is why we are also following the situation closely and are still working on solutions that will ensure that we get through this time safely. However, there are several reasons why it is not sustainable to eliminate all taxes on petrol and diesel, which the proposal here proposes. Firstly, taxes on fuel for road transport must at least comply with the minimum rates of the Energy Taxation Directive, and this will require us to ask the European Commission for authorisation. And in the case that Denmark would be granted a permit, it would only be expected to apply for a very short time, and we need long-term solutions. Secondly, it should be mentioned that the Energy Taxation Directive is part of the EU's green pact to make the EU climate neutral by 2050 at the latest. For us in the Social Democratic Party, it is important that we together meet our green international commitments, just as it is vital that we achieve the 70-percent target by 2030, and it is estimated that a reduction in taxes on petrol and diesel will increase Danish CO2 tonnes per year. This will make it more difficult to achieve the 70-percent objective. That is why we are working hard to make ourselves independent of fossil fuels. We do this both for the sake of implementing the green transition, but also because Denmark needs to become independent of Russian energy sources. However, this does not change the fact that we have to take the rising prices seriously, and we must do this by ensuring targeted help for the Danes who most need it. As I have said, the government is very serious about the trend in prices, among other things. energy and food, and the government and parliament have therefore taken a number of concrete initiatives. In 2022 a majority of the Danish Parliament has concluded two agreements for a targeted heat check to help the Danes who are hard hit by the rising prices. A total of 2 billion has been set aside. kr. for the targeted heat check. The size of the check is DKK 6,000. for households with an income of less than DKr 650,000. In the case of the United Kingdom, the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the rate of increase in the In addition, with the energy package from the autumn, the government has chosen to focus on among other things. income support, as it allows additional aid to be provided to particularly vulnerable citizens within the existing framework, and the pool has increased from 100 million by March at the latest. kr. EUR 200 million; kr. Most recently, the government has also proposed raising the transport allowance in 2022 to help all those who are in work and need the car in order to be able to do their job. And finally, the government has also proposed to give an extra tax-free check of 5,000 DKK. We are now discussing this initiative with the other parties of the Folketing. So the Social Democrats cannot support the citizens' proposal here, and neither can the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510211959	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we are going further. Now it's sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510212011	Thank you for the floor. It is a citizen's proposal that we are now considering. It is a question of abolishing petrol and diesel taxes, and it is actually a very sympathetic proposal. This would give the Danes a tax relief in the region of 25 billion. kr., and it could of course be a little tempting here at the end of the day to knock out your arms and just say yes. But that would probably be fresh enough. But I do understand the reason for the citizen's proposal, because it hurts in the wallet when the car needs to be tanked at the moment. The prices of petrol and diesel have increased quite considerably, and this affects the Danes on the private economy. And add that virtually everything else is also rising. The heating bill reaches too many extreme levels, and the trip to the supermarket has also become significantly more expensive. But back to the petrol and diesel taxes. As I said, they have increased significantly, also significantly more than was provided and expected last year. And that is also why the Left's tax rapporteur, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, who is on the Tax Council, asked that the Tax Council recalculate the transport allowance for this year. As a result, the Tax Council announced in April that the transport allowance and the transport allowance would be increased. In the case of the transport allowance, it is retroactive from New Year, and in the case of the transport allowance in the future. In fact, it is only the third time in 30 years that the Tax Council has changed the rates in one year and not just fixed the rates which will be adopted at the end of the year for the following year. And I have no doubt that it will help many people who have more than 12 km of work, since they will be paid travel allowances, that the amounts have been slightly increased. The Prime Minister has also promised that the deduction value of the transport allowance should be increased, but we have the merit of seeing this translated into a concrete proposal. But maybe we'll get to that later. As I said, the proposal will be quite expensive for the Treasury, and we are in fact also in a situation where inflation sets a record. Today we have received the latest inflation figures from Danmarks Statistik. Inflation in April was 6.7%. This is the biggest increase in inflation in Denmark for more than 40 years, and if the Danish Parliament then simply chose to abolish petrol and diesel taxes and thus pump over 20 billion. kr. In other words, it would only make the situation worse in relation to inflation. So it's not right-legged. Then, of course, as the tax minister mentioned, I would also like to stress that we have several reasons why we are levying fuel and diesel taxes. One, of course, is to create revenue. However, there is also consideration in relation to air pollution and climate, and with the abolition of petrol and diesel taxes, it will make it even more difficult to achieve our high climate ambitions. So, although I am generally happy to reduce the tax, we cannot support an unfunded proposal which, in addition, will reinforce already record inflation and weaken the climate effort. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510212353	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510212355	There are just a few elements. You say that you cannot support such an unfunded proposal, but is it not true that there has been an agreement on billions for defence which has not been financed? As far as I know, a national compromise has been reached that money will be found, but we do not yet know where the money will be found. So to the one who thinks that it will worsen CO2 does the rapporteur on the Left have a perception that people are driving in their cars just to lie and drive in them? I have the impression that they are driving to get to work and get to family and friends. There may be some who take a trip this weekend, but there is not much fun driving in Denmark with the taxes and prices we generally have on gasoline. Is it not also the rapporteur's view that people are actually using the car as a utility item to get back and forth to what they are supposed to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510212450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510212451	I very much agree, and I do not think that there are many people who are currently driving cars for fun with the move in the right back pocket that gives when you have to go in and refuel. But if you simply remove the tax, I think it would be reasonable to assume that there was more driving. At any rate, it is normal for supply and demand that if the price of a product falls, demand increases. I have no doubt that, with the high prices, people are, of course, trying to limit their driving as much as possible, but if, by supporting this motion for a resolution, we lower petrol and diesel prices by a certain amount of dollars, it might be that you would be a little more liberal in relation to how much you drive. It's basically just a simple economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510212544	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510212545	Simple economy is also likely to benefit mobility. It might pay people to take the work a little further away, because it would be cheaper to travel there. Because, with all due respect for the deduction you get to drive, it does not entirely cover the real costs. I think everyone who's ever had a car knows that. So if you remove these taxes, it will also do something good for mobility. And if you remove the tax but finance it through reduced public spending, it does not increase inflation. I understand that if you just send out the extra money, it will.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510212623	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510212624	I agree with the basic economic realities that say that if something becomes cheaper, more will be used. This is, in fact, a very common link between supply and demand. And, of course, we have a transport allowance to increase mobility, because it is important that the Danes also have financial incentives to take a job a little further away. And we actually have quite a high mobility in the Danish labour market. A lot of people drive a long way at work. That is why I think it is sensible to increase the transport allowance, and I hope that there will be an increase in the deduction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510212700	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we now move on to Mrs Ina Strjer-Schmidt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510212712	Unfortunately, the rapporteur has no opportunity to be here, and that is why I am giving his speech: the world has fundamentally changed. On many parameters it has changed into a more uncertain place to be. If this citizen's proposal had been tabled six months ago, I would not have had to write a very in-depth speech, because there is no particular doubt that the removal of all taxes on petrol and diesel in no way harmonizes with our policy in the SF. When this time it has taken more nuances and more thought to find out what I should say today, it is because I understand that the Danes are concerned; that I understand that they are concerned about rising prices of gas, transport and food. If I then say today that the SF does not support this citizens' proposal, it is basically because we are clearly opposed to the far-reaching consequences it will have for our climate and nature. If you remove the charges, we will have far, far more difficult to achieve the essential climate targets and reductions that no one can look out of. The removal of all taxes on petrol and diesel will increase CO2 emissions Moreover, the proposal will also have a significant negative impact on tax revenue and therefore also on our economy and welfare. It will have a damaging and unwanted effect on our core welfare. It will cost teachers, educators, nurses and sosu assistants, and that is not the way we should go. Although we do not support the proposal, it does not in any way mean that we do not believe that we should and should not help the group of Danes who are suffering economically right now. That is why we in the SF have also helped to vote in favour of introducing the heat check. As far as drivers are concerned, they will benefit from an increase in the transport allowance. We have also been clear about the fact that aid should not stop here. There are income groups in Denmark that need more help, which is why we have among other things. It is also suggested that the poorest should be helped more and should help students with an extra hand outstretched. So we are in SF open to look at several alternative solutions that can help those who need the most. But we cannot support the citizens' proposal. We cannot do so because it will have such a devastating and disastrous effect on the objectives we have set in terms of saving the planet and because it will cause far too much damage to our core welfare. With those words, I can tell you that the SF does not support the citizens' proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510212932	There is a brief comment on Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510212936	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur mentions the desire for more initiatives to help the most vulnerable in society, and here students are mentioned as one of the groups. I would just like to ask the rapporteur what definition of vulnerable people, like those in the SF, is being used, since they believe that students belong to that group. So it's just to try to get a little bit smarter on what it is for some moves that need to do what it is for some characteristics that need to be defined as a exposed, vulnerable group that needs extra help, such as according to SF logic.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213011	As far as students are concerned, we are thinking of those who are su- entitled. The Su is not very high, so we may not see them as a exposed group, but at least as a low-income group.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213026	Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213028	However, does the rapporteur not agree with me that the very students are characterized by rarely having responsibilities • often is just a one-man household, where one has oneself to provide and is characterized by having relatively good opportunity to influence their own income by taking an extra job, taking extra shifts, especially as the labour market looks now? And with these characteristics, could it not really be argued that there were other groups that were more at risk than just the students who could support themselves and increase income?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213103	Yes. I also mentioned other groups, but also the students, and the reason I mention the students is that it may well be that some students may have a student job next door, but not all students can. Well, we have actually defined our study time as being full-time, so it is also limited how much one should actually have to work next to. And so many studies lie in the big cities, and there are just expensive housing prices, so a su rarely covers the entire rent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213137	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213151	Thank you. We Conservatives are one of the parties originally responsible for introducing this system of citizens' proposals, and we did so because we think it is a good way to let what is filling with the Danes be heard in this Chamber in a very direct way. We were also aware from the outset that there would sometimes be challenges associated with the scheme, and this is perhaps one of the challenges we are facing here, understood in the sense that the citizens' proposal, which quickly collected 50,000 signatures, is an expression of enormous concern and frustration among the Danes, but at the same time it must also be said that the citizens' proposal contains some proposals which are not feasible. We cannot just choose to remove all the taxes because, as the Minister also very well explained, there are minimum rates related to our EU commitments, which means that it is not just an option. That's why I'm gonna choose to deal with this Citizen's proposal, which understands me rather a cry for help, understood in the sense that you feel the consequences of the rising prices. Here it is gasoline and diesel that are addressed, but the Danes are experiencing this, and we all see that the inflation that the rapporteur of the Left has pointed out is now the highest in 40 years. Even if this were possible in relation to EU rules, I am not sure that I would think it was appropriate. On the one hand, there is something healthy about reducing the demand for a scarce resource in a situation like the one we are in now. We risk pushing inflation up further if we do this. On the one hand, there is the whole climate element in it. But, of course, we must address the challenges that are that it can almost be for people to put money to transport themselves far to work. We are pleased that the Tax Council has decided, as they have, to review the rates of transport allowances. There is really good reason to do so. It must always be worthwhile for the Danes to do a job and also to commute to do a job. So it makes really good sense. There is a lot of legislation that would make sense to look at when it comes to regulating driving. I was sitting down there wondering, and I also think that there are some rules for the rate to be taken for co-driving. It is not because I want to sound so super hippie-like and say that we all have to go together happily in all the cars, but it makes sense now, when many commute on the same lines every day, that there might be a logic in taking colleagues into the car. However, as the rules are today, I believe that there are rates for what one should like to take with him, who has been set so low to prevent it from being regarded as pirate taxi. That is what has been the intention, but which means that today there is little economic advantage in driving together. I think that was one of the things you could clearly see when you couldn't give an economic carrot that made it a little more advantageous. So we can try to dive into that on occasion to see if there's anything there you can adjust on. But as I said, this is an expression of a great many Danes who are deeply frustrated. They are deeply frustrated that inflation is rising, that it has become more expensive to be a Dane, and so it is not only because inflation is rising; it is also because we have a government that has been busy raising taxes 40 times and for more than 10 billion. kr. It is clear that it has not contributed to the fact that the situation we are in right now is in any way more enjoyable or easier to get through, especially for those who have the lowest incomes. So we Conservatives have plenty of suggestions on how we can increase the employment allowance and other things. We'll lighten the tax in our financial bill with 6.8 billion. kr., which benefits a great many Danes, and that is the way we would rather go: to give the Danes more money in that way, more of their own money well to feel. That is our solution to the problem we are facing now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213549	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213551	I should just like to understand why petrol is being traded on the world market: is it the rapporteur's view that lowering taxes in Denmark on the scarce resource that petrol was said to be and that it is being traded worldwide will have an impact on the price on the world market? Is it the rapporteur's view that it would be important if we reduced the tax on petrol in Denmark for the price of the world market? That's what I thought I heard at least, but I just need to know if that's correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213630	That's by no means what I said. Of course, what we do in Denmark does not matter in relation to the price at which it is traded on the world market. But it is clear that if we did not have minimum rates of taxation and everyone chose to go this way, then the natural market regulation that lies in supply and demand would be eroded in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213646	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213647	Okay. Then I just do not understand what is said about the fact that it is important for the price of petrol, which is a scarce resource, if you remove the tax. Because that is what the rapporteur said. So that puzzles me. Will Conservatives help to lower it to an EU minimum? I am in favour of the energy directive, but we in the Folketing can reduce it to an EU minimum. That would mean about 19 cents for diesel and maybe 2 cents for petrol. or 2,42 kr. depending on the price. Do you want to be a part of it? It's actually pretty cheap to finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213718	Sometimes I think that in my next life it would just be enormously easy and convenient to be a member of New Citizens, because you can join enormously many sympathetic things without necessarily taking the trouble to point out a whole lot of funding for it. I have not seen any financial law proposal from New Citizens where it has been financed to reduce these taxes to the level that is laid down here. If it is wrong, I would like to hear a page reference to where I can find it in a financial law proposal. However, no, I do not think it would be appropriate for the climate considerations that I have also explained in the past. We have a commitment to reduce our CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213752	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510213759	Here we are dealing with a citizen's proposal that is about removing all taxes on petrol and diesel, so that all Danes can make everyday life run, I think it says more specifically that it works. It's a good expression that's been used there. The background is quite real. After all, we have all seen huge price increases, and there are many different things that have increased, but especially gasoline and diesel is probably one of the height jumpers. I think we all think it hurts a little money purse when we go down and refuel gas, with the prices that are today. It is clear that this is something that hampers people, among other things. We need to get to work, that is to say, less mobility when driving to and from your job. It makes the goods more expensive to transport, but it also affects ordinary people who have to trade and visit the family. So there are many who are hit by the high prices of gasoline and diesel. That is why it is quite a real discussion that we are having, and therefore also thanks to all the many Danes who have asked us here in the Danish Parliament to take a debate on it today. That's quite right, actually. Then the question is whether we should eliminate the charges altogether for the future. It has already been mentioned by several rapporteurs that this cannot be done at all in relation to the EU's commitments. Of course, you don't care about that. In the Danish People's Party we are not particularly fond of the European Union, but now those rules are there, and then you have to respect them. In fact, I think it is obvious that we were looking politically instead of trying to take the top of the price increases that we have seen now. Because this is an extraordinary situation we are in. Something has actually already been done. The transport allowance has been set up a little with a dash under a little bit because it is not, after all, something that makes the huge difference. However, it is positive that this has happened. But there are also other initiatives that we can look at with benefit here in the Folketing. We could, among other things. look at Germany, which has just chosen to lower the tax on petrol and diesel at the EU's minimum rate. However, it is a temporary reduction, but after all there are other countries in Europe that have chosen to go that way, and we could also consider doing so in Denmark. We could also increase the tax value of the driving allowance. This is something that is already part of the negotiations that are currently under way. It is just to mention that, as a party, we are willing to look at the possible solutions one could choose to take the top of the price increases, but not quite remove the tax. But, of course, there is also a question of funding. For the easy part, of course, is just pointing out all the solutions we can choose, but where should the money come from? It's always where it gets difficult. Because I agree with the rapporteurs who say that we must, of course, also be careful to pump too much into society at a time when inflation is rising, because it can end up making things worse, that is to say prices will increase even more, not necessarily the price of petrol, but it is clear that if people get a much greater amount of available money and money is pumped out, inflation will rise, and it is not really a good service to do people out there. So if we are going to go this way and take some initiatives to take the top of the big price increases that have been on petrol and diesel, I think it is important that we find another funding for it. Among other things, it could. to postpone some public investment, postpone some projects. It may be some consultancy projects you have to do anyway, but which you can postpone for a year or so, so that you do not pump more money into society. However, helping citizens also makes some adjustments in the public sector and therefore overall demand does not increase. On the other hand, it may actually help to lower the price of petrol because it can help to increase the supply of labour. At least that's what you're supposed to do. In other words, people get a greater incentive to go to work and the more people work, the more the supply of goods increases too, because so typically you want to produce something more, and that is something that, on the other hand, can help to reduce prices. Finally, what is the position on such a proposal? Yes, well, we cannot, as other rapporteurs have said, implement it one by one, but we in the Danish People's Party think that we should take initiatives to help the Danes along the way, also with funding that we would like to help find. Therefore, a possible solution could be a joint report in the Folketing if there could be support for it. That is not what I am listening to, but it is just to say that we will be prepared to do so by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510214203	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. This means that we move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510214209	Thank you. This citizen's proposal is really good because it might help to make up for the world's highest tax burden that we have in Denmark. It is a citizen's proposal that expresses a wish and gives a clear message to the politicians in this Parliament that it is now their turn to tighten the belt; the Danes out there actually need to keep a little more of our own money so that we can make a daily life and a everyday life work. Then, of course, you can choose from in here to say: well, this citizen's proposal on the few lines is legally incorrect, so we simply cannot adopt it that way. I think it is talking down to what a citizen's proposal is in society and why citizens' proposals have been introduced? This is because we need to debate some intentions and some problems that citizens are experiencing out there. And yes, you cannot just remove all fuel and diesel taxes because of some EU rules. Now, in New Citizens, we do not think that the European Union should interfere in what taxes we have in Denmark, so we basically do not see this as a problem. But we can, at least as Parliament with the current rules, lower it to the EU's minimum level, and that was a start. That is what we are saying in the New Citizens' Party, and that is also what we have presented in our economic plan. Here we are saying: let us take the first step and reduce the tax on petrol to that. It would cost about half a billion dollars. And it is fully funded in our financial plan, which all of us also the Conservative rapporteur can go in and look into; it is on our website. And there you can see that it's fully funded how we're going to make that change. So this is a good citizen's proposal. We will support it, we will vote for it because we think it is good. We have had other proposals in the past that we have voted in favour of because of their intention. Then we must see how we are and that is what I think the Danish Parliament must take on board and have a motion for a resolution tabled which is legally feasible; and we would like to put ourselves at the forefront of this in the New Citizens' Party. We shall then table a motion for a resolution which can actually include the intention of this citizens' proposal and which can also legally hold a legal debate in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510214433	There is a brief comment on Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510214435	Thank you. Yes, it is true that petrol is mentioned in the New Citizens' initiative and that there is funding. It may be possible to discuss how specifically it is financed. It is under relatively large headings that funding is found in New Citizens' initiative. Having said that, we share the ambition that we can do better and more effectively in the public sector so fairly well it is not the two of us who have to stand and disagree about it because that is what we can do. There is just nothing in the proposal from the New Citizens' Party compared to the diesel tax. So when you vote for this citizens' proposal, which contains both petrol and diesel, can we expect there to be a regulation of the plan in relation to financing the diesel part?
ParlaMint-DK_20220510214512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510214513	Well, our plan is fully funded. When diesel is not included, it is simply because it is so small an amount and because we have overfunded our plan. Well, the diesel charge can you approximately lower by 19 cents to get down to what's minimum. If you then both lower the petrol and diesel tax by the 19 cents, i.e. in parallel, then it actually costs only 100 million. kr. where the petrol tax is a large part of it. It is so small a million dollars if you simply lower the diesel tax down to the EU's minimum level, so we have fully funded that within it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510214547	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510214548	However, I think it would be appropriate to make it clear from the plan that it is financed because, as I read the plan here, I do not see that diesel is included. It is not included in the table, where both expenditure and revenue are recorded, which is on the last page of the New Citizen's plan. So it is a call for it to appear there if you think you have financed it. The diesel part is also not indicated as an expense in the New Citizens' initiative. It is only gasoline that is directly mentioned. So if you vote in favour of this citizens' proposal in relation to petrol and diesel, I think it is also due to point out that diesel is part of one's economic plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510214619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510214620	We can add that to the heart. Well, there are a large number of elements whose millions are so small that our plan would be 100 points long. The fact that we haven't brought them along is normal when you make such a big financial overview as we have done. But it would be gratifying if the Conservatives would support us having it lowered by 19 cents. It's actually a $1 billion prize. kr. in increased bnp, and we can probably agree that is a good idea and then it costs only 100 million. kr. That's a really, really good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510214646	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220510214656	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 11 May, at 3 pm. 10:00. I shall refer to the agenda which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
