ParlaMint-DK_20220330130000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly (Astrid Krag): Bill no. L 151 (Proposal for a law amending the law on legal certainty and administration in the social field. Minister for Education and Research (Jesper Petersen): Bill no. L 152 (Proposal for a law amending the law on higher education (the continuing education system) for adults. Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen): Bill no. L 153 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment and the Law on the Monitoring of Supply. Ministry of Interior and Housing (Kaare Dybvad Bek): Bill no. L 154 (Proposal for a law amending the law on urban renewal and urban development and the law on housing. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill No. L 155 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Law on the Law on Aliens. Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill No. L 156 (Proposal for a law amending the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law on the Court of Justice and the Law on the change of estates. In the case of shifts of estates)). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Sikandar Siddique (FG) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following motion for a resolution: motion for a resolution on the parliamentary resolution on the resettlement of recognised refugees B 89). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330130132	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 31 March 2022. First of all, Mr President, I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur for the questions put to us as a matter of urgency. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330130206	Thank you, President. I think most people have been struck by both the board and the astonishment of seeing the sharp rise in electricity and heat prices that we are experiencing at the moment, and which is obviously also the driving force behind the price developments that we are experiencing in consumer goods and virtually everything else in our society. This is an extraordinary situation which, of course, can be explained and justified in particular by the unfortunate war that is currently taking place in Ukraine. But, of course, an extraordinary situation also calls for extraordinary political action, and I think we have, in a broad sense, in the bourgeois family, but at least for my own part in the Danish People's Party, sat and looked with great amazement at a government which has done nothing for a very, very long time, and which then here for the eleventh hour, just before a query debate, makes a new arrangement, but which, as I understand it, still can't find out how to get the money paid out before once in August. And, of course, it is impossible to live with, not for us in the Danish People's Party, but also, of course, for the many people who are today threatened with having to leave homes and houses, who simply cannot pay their bills and who see a government where the state treasury is just buzzing. I understand that the last financial year had a positive result of 57 billion. kr., and I also understand that the high electricity charges have led to savings of about 5 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. But the conclusion here is that we expect more to be done, that something faster is being done by the government, and that is why we have asked for this urgent debate today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330130408	Thank you for justifying the urgent question. I should just like to point out that it is not in this round during the explanatory statement that short remarks are available. There will be in a minute. I now give the floor to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply for the answer. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330130423	Thank you for that and also thank the questioner for this opportunity to discuss a very important subject. It is clear that the situation in Ukraine is serious for a great many reasons. Many of them are about life and death, security policy, and some of them are also about something quite concrete for each Dane, as energy prices as a result of the conflict have risen and will continue to be high for a long time into the future. Even before the crisis in Ukraine, gas prices were particularly high at an historically high level. I would like to start by arresting it that the government should not have done anything to remedy that situation. We have done something very much both in terms of making the Danes more free from fossil fuels, including gas, but also in order to alleviate the acute situation that many Danes are facing right now, where they have problems paying the high bills. If I start with the first part first, that is, what we have done to reduce the use of fossil fuels in Denmark, then perhaps it is a little strong tobacco when Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in his usual polemical style claims that the government has nothing if I may make just a few comparisons and if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt will give me some attention: the government which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt supported before the power changed here 21⁄2 years ago, after all, cancelled offshore wind farms, cancelled targets to phase out coal, made a roll-back of an ambitious climate and environmental policy in a wide range of areas. What happened after the last parliamentary election was that we made a significant change of course. Take e.g. offshore wind turbines: We have decided since the election to quadruple Denmark's offshore wind turbine capacity. In other words, what it has taken from 1991 to 2019 to build, we have quadrupled from 2019 until now. Not only that, on the other side of 2030 we will further expand massively with the world's first energy island, which can deliver green power to 10 million European households. We have introduced a stop for oil and gas recovery in 2050 and cancelled the eighth round of invitations to tender precisely to speed up the green transition. We have allocated billions of kroner to support energy renovation and to support concrete replacements, for example. gas pine with either individual heat pumps or green district heating. Tens of thousands of people have already had or have in these years replaced their gas pine as a result of our policy. So a lot has happened. Is that enough? Obviously not. We still have 400,000 households in Denmark that have gas guys. We have a biogas production which is quite high. 25% of our gas we get from biogas, but that means at the same time that we get 75%. from other sources. The vast majority of them are European and a large part of the European gas is Russian. So for reasons of climate, but also for reasons of security policy, something needs to be done about it. That is why the parties that are behind the agreement we made this morning have also agreed that we should have EUR 250 million set aside. kr. for various measures that can make district heating greener in Denmark, while at the same time we have announced that we will soon be making a major proposal to make the heating sector green • in addition to the fact that we will have to expand our renewable energy further, despite the pace I was talking about earlier we have so far shown. So quite a lot of things have already happened; quite a lot of things are going to happen in the very short space of time. If we then look at what can be done quite specifically to help those people who have received the high increases, it is clear that I have noticed that some have suggested that different taxes could be reduced. We have just done so in the government with the electricity tax. So it is not the case that, as a starting point, we are opposed to lowering taxes and, as I said, we have done so too, but in this specific situation and with the funding base that could be provided, we believe that it was best to actually pay a check to a group of people of a size so that it could be felt. Instead of giving a few hundred kroner to each household in Denmark, we would rather give 6,000 kroner. to the approximately 419 000 homes that fall within the criteria we have set up. And what are these criteria? They are that you have to have a household income of less than DKK 650,000 and that you have to have a heat source that is either based on gas it can be an individual heat pine or district heating, where the gas constitutes the majority of the heat source or on electricity, where it is electricity panels or heat pumps, and where the prices for the individual have increased as much as for the other sources. It is quite a considerable economic handout, which I naturally regret that the bourgeois parties, including the Danish People's Party, who claim that they would certainly like to do a great deal for the Danes and their economy, have unfortunately not been able to support. This narrative, this fairytale story that there's a box of money somewhere, such money that's in surplus, because you're saving on support for renewable energy this year, is a discussion, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and I have come to the Chamber before. Now I do not know how many people look at such an hour of questioning, but I do not think that many people have seen that exchange of words and then thought: he is quite right about that, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt. It was clear, however, that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, if he were to gain power sometime, is going to change the way that things like that are being dealt with. If you did, it would also mean that in those years when you would have to pay more from the Treasury in RE aid, it would also have to be financed. For example, it would. say that we lacked about 6 billion. kr. a few years ago, when it turned out that the bill for biogas was far greater than we had expected. It is clear that it has to level out structurally over time. It is not, of course, the same as the fact that we cannot choose to do what we have chosen to do today and say that we are relaxing fiscal policy so that we can provide 1 billion. kr. extra. But that's the same as saying that way, sir. Morten Messerschmidt is calculated to be imaginative, but not realistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330131201	I took the liberty of trying to stop the Minister, because there are two ministers to be shared in 10 minutes, so for now there are only a few minutes, perhaps barely three minutes, to the next minister. However, one brief comment from the rapporteurs to each minister is therefore possible. The Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply I had understood that we had 10 minutes each No! It's 10 minutes to platoon, and now the 7 minutes have been spent. This is how the government shares. The Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply I apologise to my good colleague). As I have said, there is a brief comment to be made to each of the rapporteurs who would like it, and that is what Mr von der Vring wants. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330131236	Thank you. Now it is a question of whether the government intends to repay more money to the Danes, and now there is an opportunity to quickly repay some money to the Danes. If it is the case that you raise the green check for those with the lowest income, we do not have to wait to collate some registers and then you can pay out a heat check. That is one of the options currently available. And I cannot quite understand why the government wants to abolish the green check for a large number of people in Denmark, so the green check after New Year is only something that concerns pensioners and early retirementists. So I would like to hear the minister, if the government is not willing to re-evaluate the reform proposal Denmark can do more; the poor should be able to afford less, you might say. Because there is actually a tool there that could be used to compensate everyone with low revenues, which also has some high electricity bills at the moment. That would be a unique opportunity. Doesn't the Minister see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330131337	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330131338	Firstly, I think I explained quite well why there is no money to repay. It is simply not the case that the state finances are lumped together, that is, because less money is paid in renewable energy aid for a year, it is in a box which is so freely available for other purposes. If that were the case, then in the years in which more aid has to be paid, we would have to provide the funding, and then I would have to call the parties of the Folketing and say: we need 6 billion. kr., and we must then take them away from the welfare or the green transition. I hardly think the same people who have suggested that we should spend money now would agree to that. Moreover, no governments have done so in the past, nor do I believe that any governments will do so in the future. However, it is of course interesting if there are new signals from the bourgeois parties that they will do differently in the future, so that if for a year less support is to be paid for the VE, that money is freely available. Then I don't know how they're going to make the books go up in structural terms, but it might be exciting to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330131434	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330131437	I think I can fully confirm that if war were to break out again in Europe and the unfortunate situation we have had to repeat itself, then we will do something extraordinary, and that is perhaps what separates us citizens from the current government, which always sees only principles. You have a pounding treasury of 57 billion. kr. in surplus and lingers out such hand ears to quite a few households around the country. You have 5 billion. I think the Minister really understands the spiritual content of this. So what I want to ask is not what the substance is, because there I understand that one chooses to drive with one's red parliamentary majority alone. No. What I want to ask is: why can't this money come out to the Danes? Why do you have to wait until August? Well, how many people are going to go from house to home, does the minister want to have on his conscience while he's sucking up over in his ministry?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330131532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330131533	I can start by stating that the chairman of the Danish People's Party believes that it is a handkerchief to give a household, DKK 6,000. I hope you haven't completely lost the ground connection, compared to what it's like for a lot of ordinary people in Denmark to get DKK 6,000, a tax-free check. That's a lot of money. That's a lot of money. And it is clear that if you have the view that DKr 6 000. If there is a lot of money, it must necessarily be the case that the few hundred kroner you could have received if you had spread the money wider, as the bourgeois parties have proposed, would be much less and much less. So with regard to the fact that it should be such a politician's answer and that it is only the minister who understands it and something like that, I would just like to ask: will the policy change if the bourgeois win power in the next elections; will it then be the case that if less money is to be paid out in renewables for a year, that money will be freely available in the state budget?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330131632	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330131636	I guess the connection between the Folketing and the people has hardly been more absent than it is under this government. Is it correct to understand that a working family who worked last year but is unemployed this year cannot get any help through this scheme? Is it true that if you belong to a working family and last year were in work, but now you have retired, so you are now a pensioner and have a much smaller income, is there no help from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330131715	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330131716	It depends a lot on what the income base is now, and what it was last year, so whether there is any difference between those situations. But it is clear that when you make a check for an income base, you obviously have to choose a year. I do not know whether the questioner imagines that one should not choose a year and has any idea how to do so. Should it be an average of 10 years or an average of 5 years? And if you chose to do so, I can at least say that the payment of the cheque will be considerably delayed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330131744	Thanks to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply for their response. I would like to welcome the tax minister for the tax minister's share of the reply. It is true that there are three minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330131801	Thank you. I have tried to relax a little in my speech, and I shall try to keep it short. I got a little bell here. And thank you to all the young people who sit here in the Chamber and come with us. There are also some who are not so young who also come along. Or maybe someone's out there watching. And I think that one can sit and wonder a little at the rhetoric that can get tough in this Chamber, and that is a little a shame, because what is at stake here is something very important, namely that we are at a time when things are developing extremely quickly. I became tax minister six weeks ago. At that time we expected that we were approaching a profit of about 5%, and now it looks very different. It shows how fast things are going. This is a serious situation and it is a serious situation for many households. That is why, as a government, we are, of course, constantly following with us, and today is a good example of how we have succeeded in improving the heat check, which benefits a great many people. Then you can have the attitude that I can hear some people have, that it probably doesn't matter that much. But I actually think it does for a lot of households. There is also a bit of an attitude towards the fact that the box is overflowing, because when the price of petrol and diesel is rising, revenue is pouring into the Treasury. Unfortunately, this is not quite the case, because the tax on petrol and diesel is a unit price of one tax per tonne. The volume of solution for injection is approximately 1 litre. Then more money comes into VAT, but in return we spend less money. But households also find that prices in the supermarket are rising and that the price of heat and energy is rising. In other words, the money that the Treasury gets into VAT on petrol is offset against the fact that less money is coming in elsewhere. When, at all, there is a slowdown in the economy or it does not grow as fast as it would otherwise end up with a small minus. So the picture that now comes in with money and that we will not spend money, even though there is a lot of money in the box, is wrong. It just doesn't change that if you sit out there and have a car and have to commute back and forth to work at the hospital as a sosu assistant and can't take the collective transport as an alternative or drive along with some others, then it fills relatively much in your budget. That is why we are genuinely concerned about keeping up with what is going on. That is why I am glad and proud that we have succeeded today in making an agreement that will mean something. Are we that stupid and lazy? And why don't we pay out the money tomorrow? Why wait till August? Does anyone really believe that if we could pay out that money tomorrow, we would not? Of course we did. Perhaps that is where it will be a little bit easy to be in opposition and just say: why does the stupid government that sits on the system not just want to pay out the money tomorrow? But come on, who is it you're trying to fool? We did it tomorrow if we could. In this way, I think most people can understand that, unfortunately, there is also something about how this can be done in practice. I don't need to know the details of this. But, of course, we have no ambition to wait longer than is necessary. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330132108	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. And as mentioned by the previous minister there is also possibility... the Treasury Minister I shorted it down to 3 minutes here. ) It was quite correct, it was very well done. As I have said, there is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteurs who wish to do so, and that is what Mr von der Vring wishes to see. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330132124	Thank you. Now your fellow minister spoke a little out of the question of who got these things and who could get help. Is it true that with the new agreement you have made, a teacher who has an average salary will not be able to get any help, that a nurse who has an average salary will not be able to get any help, that a teacher who has an average salary will not be able to get any help at all? They are therefore ordinary Danes who are out on the labour market in quite normal, important positions and with wages that are not extravagantly high, as they are in here in the Folketing, but who have a fairly normal salary, and they will certainly not get any help because they will come above the limit of the amount that is here. Is it true that the three groups I mentioned there will not be able to receive any help? We can also bring policemen into that category, because they will also make too much money for it. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330132213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330132214	So a limit of DKK 650,000 has been set, and it then covers 419,000 households. That is absolutely right, and I would agree with the rapporteur that we could not have an income limit. If you had to give all Danes who are in the situation that they have rising prices of gas etc., as the climate minister has explained, DKK 6,000. a month, that bill would, of course, be much, much bigger. We may think that it is fair enough that if you live in a large house and have a huge income, you will not benefit from the heat check. This is not the case if you are a teacher or a police officer or any of the other professional groups, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen mentions. That is why an income limit has been created and the income limit of DKK 650,000. I think that is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330132304	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330132306	It is interesting to examine what the government here considers reasonable. With the income limit used here, the private social worker, whom I understand from the wage statistics, will earn approx. 37,000 kr., so do not be favored at least if she or he may have a spouse who is then perhaps a primary school teacher or is himself in the same profession. Is that really what this government considers to be high wages? We are talking about people who have had some very, very violent increases in both electricity and heating bills. In some places we're talking about 20,000 kr., 25,000 kr., 30,000 kr., i.e. a monthly salary for these groups that aren't covered. Is it really the government's view that it's because they're so highly paid that they don't need this help?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330132350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330132351	It is our view that, in relation to the heat check, we are doing something concrete and targeted in relation to people who, after all, have an income below the DKK 650,000 and who have increased costs because they have a gas guy or something else. Does this mean that all those who are not covered by this scheme do not feel that things are becoming more expensive in the supermarket or that the erosion of their wages is happening because inflation is rising? Of course it doesn't. Don't they feel it too? Yeah, they do. They also feel it on the heating bill. That is why we are also watching and watching how things are going in households, what it looks like, but saying that we should have a principle that when we make such a scheme, there will be no income limit, we can look at differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330132437	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330132439	I think it is good that the tax minister is watching what is happening out there, and it is good to have some tools for what can then be regulated. I have noted that the Elders case considers that the retirement pension should be increased by 5 billion. kr., which is something you can do relatively quickly. We also have the green check so far, and the green check can be used for example. to give a special subsidy to the lowest-paid, who also experience high electricity prices, because the agreement we have just made today is only something that helps some specific gas customers. So I would like to know how quickly it will be possible to change the green cheque, which is a tax deduction. Is that something we could make a decision on, so that the next month there will be some people who will experience that they have a greater deduction that they can make use of? Is it a tool that can be used so quickly, because I think it's important on top of this hot case that takes, I think, too long? Is the green check something we can regulate on a monthly basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330132543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330132543-2	I am simply unable to answer whether we can regulate the green cheque on a monthly basis, as is asked. But it is clear that, as I also said, we are looking at what it looks like in households. How do you feel that? That's what we're preoccupied with. On the one hand, we have an economy that is healthy and strong; we have never had more in employment, unemployment is record low. On the other hand, things are going extremely fast. Over the last six weeks, I used my own ministerial time as an example. That's why we're looking at what it looks like on a whole range of parameters. Now you have succeeded in making a very good deal for a heat check today. So it's done with it? It's not safe, and that's why we're sitting here looking at things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330132631	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There will then be no further brief comments to the Minister, and we shall now proceed to the general debate and therefore also to the general rules for short remarks. The first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330132703	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you for the replies or, at least, the contributions from the ministers. For real answers, you can't really call it that. The audience and the TV viewers at home can see what we have asked for answers to: whether the government intends to pay back more money to the Danes, and then you get a song from the hot countries about how much you have done to set up offshore wind farms and how miserable the previous government was. Well, is that really what you have to serve for the Folketing? I think it is revealing, not only for the specific case, but also for the general attitude of the government towards the increases and new conditions that apply, indeed, to everyone in Danish society, that the only thing that is intended to do is to send targeted cheques to groups with such low incomes as are at issue here. As we discussed just now with the tax minister, these are therefore income groups, which I think we really need to be, really dedicated to the social democrat in order to regard as such extravagant. Quite ordinary, honest jobs as a primary school teacher, sosu employee, nurse, what do I know about that; police officer, like Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen mentioned earlier is not a target group that can in any way be favoured or share in the alms that the Left has made here. There you simply make too much money. It has to be said that in view of the crazy price increases that we are seeing and not only on electricity and heat, but also as a transferred effect on almost all of our consumer goods, it is an inconceivable world remoteness to rule on the assumption that in your ivory tower, where you now have more than 50 billion. kr. I do not know how many billions are being saved in the last financial budget and I do not know how many billions are being spared from what is being done here is a handful of very, very few very selected groups. No, of course 6,000 kroner. Too many people in society don't care. What is a handkerchief is the money that you choose to dispose of in relation to what you could do, and that is what makes this so horrible that you do nothing any more, and then you even bring some song from the hot countries that it is because we then have to change the general principles of how we use any surplus in the field of VE technology, as the Minister of Climate Change says. No! Because what we are in is not a general situation. The increases we are currently looking at prices are not general; it is not common, it has not happened in ordinary times. This is a completely extraordinary situation caused by what is unfortunately happening in Ukraine at the moment. That is why, of course, we can make some aid packages that go far beyond what the Red majority's ambition obviously goes to, without necessarily setting a precedent for what would then apply in 5 or 10 or 20 years' time. This is an extraordinary situation, just like the pandemic we've been fighting over the past two years. It was an extraordinary situation. Nobody imagines that because we have managed the state's finances to combat corona, it means that the state's finances must be overlaid forever. Similarly here: Once again, when we are in the unhappy situation, there is war in Europe and it has massive consequences for the long, by far most Danes' everyday lives, where you simply cannot pay your bills, then of course you cannot argue that it would change the way you would always have to count on in the Treasury. It is simply obscene. That is why I am looking forward to this debate. I look forward to hearing what the other bourgeois parties have to say. I am convinced that, regardless of whether or not we voted for one of the red parties in the parliamentary elections, it is a rather more appetising version of reality than what we have heard so far. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133102	Thank you to the rapporteur and there are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It's only from Mr. Knox's office. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133108	Well, you can havecelere against that heat check, but what is it that the Danish People's Party does? What are they doing? What is the world's remote approach of the Danish People's Party to things? Dansk Folkeparti is a member of the Danish People's Party. After all, it is an agreement that abolishes the green cheque for a large number of low-paid people in Denmark. This is where it is abolished for ordinary cash benefits recipients; they can no longer get the green cheque from New Year. It was, of course, a good tool if it is the case that you want what is in the text of the question that it is about, namely to be able to repay money to the Danes. When that option is abolished, there is no longer any possibility for a large number of citizens, such as myself. is subject to a higher electricity bill. It would be very obvious to raise the green cheque this year and probably next year as well. So I would like to hear Dansk Folkeparti, why Dansk Folkeparti will abolish the green check for so many Danes • so many low-paid Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133207	We do, among other things. in order to finance a lower electricity bill, i.e. by reducing the electricity tax, so that people have to pay less to the state when they use electricity. That is, in fact, very sound logic. But I will come, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen in a meeting in the sense that when we are in an extraordinary situation that we are in now, we would like to use the model set out in the green check not as a continuation, because of course we stand by the agreement we have made in Denmark can more. But if that is the tool that can be used to send money more quickly to the Danes, then in the extraordinary circumstances, in the extraordinary situation, it is quite fine with us. What is a pity when you make such a package as I understand that you red parties have been doing in the past few days and funny enough have agreed on here late last night, just before we were supposed to meet today. Unfortunately, a little unambitious is, of course, that it is a closed club. Perhaps if we wanted to raise the level of ambition a little, it would be appropriate another time to invite the rest of us along.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133305	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133305-2	Now it is not the Enhedslisten who decides who will be invited to negotiations. However, I am actually very fine with the agreement that we have reached, because there is a legislative proposal that will be tabled tomorrow and that will have to be dealt with first on Tuesday next week and second and third on Thursday. Now we could get 1 billion. kr. more into that bill. I think that's kind of good. So we didn't make this amendment because the Danish People's Party has a question debate today. I must admit that: that is not why. It's to get it in the bill that's coming tomorrow. And then I would like to thank you for the courtesy of using the green cheque as long as it is there. It's a small opening today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133344	I'd say it's a big opening. After all, I contacted the Enhedslisten as early as Monday evening to ask whether we should make a joint text for adoption. I am quite sure that what Enhedslisten might be able to formulate, I could almost guarantee citizens' support for, so that we could do something that was more ambitious than what has happened. Unfortunately, Enhedslisten chose to follow the red majority in which one apparently feels more comfortable than by actually helping some more Danes out there. It is sad, of course, but I feel absolutely convinced that the thousands of Danes who have thus been abandoned by Enhedslisten will remember Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen more than the 90 friends he has in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133418	The next brief remark is from Mrs Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133420	Thank you. The rapporteur is very concerned that the state has saved money this year for RE expenditure. The rapporteur says it is an extraordinary situation as a result of the war in Ukraine, but the rapporteur made the same argument about the spared RE expenditure before the war started. It is no more extraordinary than that we have been in situations where we have had to do the opposite, namely find more money for VE, for example. in the case of biogas, there has to be 5.9 billion. kr. So what I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur will change the way this works in purely fiscal terms, so that if we are in a situation in a few years' time and we can see that suddenly we need to find more money for RE spending, then we need to go out and collect extra taxes from the public, or is it really not a healthy principle that this should be seen over a long period of time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133518-2	Yes, it is a sound principle that applies in healthy, common times, but when times change and enter an abnormal state, as it is when there is war in Europe, it is also a healthy principle that the principles that apply to ordinary times can be deviated from. It is exactly as in road traffic legislation, because there is also a healthy principle that you follow the instructions that apply on the streets and straits, in relation to how fast you can drive, but if there is life and mobility at stake, it is clear that there is an emergency legal situation. I think the same applies here. As a result of Putin, Ukraine and everything that has happened for a long time, we have a situation where gas prices have increased, general energy prices have also increased, and we cannot just sit there and say that we have a principle that applies in good and normal times, and that is why we will not help. There you have an obligation to actually have so much connection with reality that you also understand it when it is abnormal times.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133610	Mrs. Anna Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133611	I also think it was a sound principle if we then pointed to real funding for it. Then I have another question. The rapporteur points out time and time again that the state is making a lot of money from the situation we find ourselves in, but I am here with a press release from the Ministry of Taxation which stresses that it is not estimated that the state will make money from the high energy prices that currently exist, among other things. because less VAT would then come in from other commodity groups, but also because less money would come in from taxes in that people would reduce their energy consumption. Will the rapporteur address this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133654	No, because I think that question should have been put to someone else. I have not said at any time that revenue has been saved. That must be another question that should have been addressed. The rapporteur may just have to sort out his spin department so that the questions are put to the right people. But I can say in relation to it whether it is real money that can be used, that I certainly hope it is, because if the electricity price had not been so high, 5 billion should have been sent. kr. out to windmill owners and solar owners, and what do I know, around the country, and I certainly hope that it is real money the government is sending around.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133724	The next brief remark is from Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133727	When we negotiated the first heat check, a majority of parties agreed to give 1 billion. kr. The Danes with the lowest incomes and the most rising heat prices. Now the DF's rapporteur speaks to help, but then the Danish People's Party said: No, we will not give that; we will not give 1 billion. kr. Now we're gonna give 1 billion. kr. more, so there will be 2 billion. kr. Into the heat check. And I know it is possible for the Danish People's Party to accede to that agreement and support sending 2 billion. kr. Out. So when you talk so much about helping the Danes hit hardest by rising energy prices, it would be nice to hear the rapporteur explain why the Danish People's Party is not ready to give 2 billion. kr. in help.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133816	That's a very generous offer. I will remember that when the power has changed: on every occasion, the bourgeois majority has done something good, we can call the SF and say: you can vote in favour. No, that's not how things work, Mrs. Signe Munk. When we are against this, it is because this is a real insult to a lot of ordinary hard-working people, whom I am quite sure Mrs Signe Munk has met a great deal of in her election campaign, and probably also led them to vote for him. So the sosu employee, the nurse, the police officer, the primary school teacher, etc., who unfortunately earns a little too much in relation to the Marxist-Socialist paradigms, has made it possible for you to benefit from this heating aid. We just don't want to do that. We think it's an insult. We think it's an insult to spend 2 billion. kr., when you have saved 5 billion in the last few years. kr. in relation to the aid that should have been paid out to VE technology. We think it is an insult when the state has a surplus of 57.6 billion. kr. 2 billion kr.! Who do you think you are?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133909	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133910	We conclude that it is a mockery to give 2 billion. kr. in heating aid. But can we then hear about the Danish People's Party model: Who is it that needs heat help and help to pay the energy prices from the Danish People's Party? When can they get the money? And how are they paid out? It would be nice to hear from the Danish People's Party when you say no to giving 2 billion. kr., ready to be paid out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133935	In relation to the amount, at least we think that the 5 billion. kr., which is uncontaminated funds in relation to the VE support, would be a good place to start. And in relation to the method, i.e. how to pay out and I don't know if Mrs. Signe Munk was absent for a moment. Søren Egge Rasmussen and I are already deep in the negotiations to use the model that applies to the green check.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133952	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Then there are no more brief comments. Before the rapporteur goes, I should like to ask whether there is a proposal for adoption from the author.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330133958	There's a bit of a cliff hanger. It will be read out at a later date. First Vice-President There will be another rapporteur. Thank you. ) I don't know what a cliff hanger is called in Danish... maybe a rock hanger? First Vice-President It is certainly an opportunity, a rock hanger, yes).
ParlaMint-DK_20220330134012	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. Then there are no more brief comments. Before the rapporteur goes, I should like to ask whether there is a proposal for a text from the author of the motion for a resolution. There is a bit of a cliff hanger or a rock hanger in Danish because it will be read later). There'll be another round. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Paulin, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330134025	Thank you. In 2008, the world was thrown into a global financial crisis. The reasons were to be found in decades of unwise deregulation of the financial sector, where speculative financial products were allowed to arise. When the financial market collapsed, the crisis quickly spread to the real economy. Companies had to turn the key. Millions of people lost their jobs. In Europe, the situation was dealt with badly, largely because of the unwillingness to use expansive financial policies. Many bank packages were made, but it lagged tremendously with packages to help ordinary people in a difficult situation. Now, in 2022, we are once again in difficult economic times. Inflation has returned seriously as a factor in our economy and in our daily lives. The impact of the Corona crisis on the global economy and supply chains has played a part, and now with the war in Ukraine we are clearly seeing the consequences, first and foremost on energy prices, where especially gas bills, but also electricity, wood pellets, gasoline and diesel have become significantly more expensive. But we are gradually feeling it on other products, not least on food prices. This creates great uncertainty about the economy of private households as well as in the economy. Contrary to the financial crisis, the economic challenges are now due to real physical conditions, which is why we cannot simply throw more money or tax reductions at problems and expect them to go away. Markant tax incentives, for example. petrol and diesel would result in higher prices of petrol and diesel, because the high prices of energy reflect a real risk that these products will be in short supply. There is a real risk that Europe will be able to run out of diesel, a fuel on which the majority of European trucks depend. It is a foundation for trucks to drive raw materials and sub-components to factories and that finished goods can be transported from factories or fields to shops. And security of gas supply is also at risk of being put under pressure. Should we then stand here today and pretend that it does not matter how much energy, diesel and petrol we consume? Should we send a signal to the Danes that they do not have to turn down their consumption and that the state is ready to cover everything; that there should be some kind of higher justice in removing taxes on energy in a situation where we risk facing real physical challenges in terms of lack of energy? I understand that some people have been preaching tax relief for many years and now think that the situation is perfect for pushing that argument forward, but I would urge you to reconsider it. That is also what the National Bank has said in black and white in the latest forecast for the Danish economy. I quote: Here it is not a viable solution to use subsidies or reduce taxes as they will increase market prices further, and instead transfers to particularly vulnerable households are an appropriate tool in the short term, as they aim to support consumption opportunities broadly. This is why we have made the heat check exactly in the way we have done it, that is to say targeted the households that have the most financial difficulty. And, yes, that is not a perfect solution, because it hardly exists, and we are sorry that the payment is not due until August and September. But I have not heard of any better model that will provide more targeted help. The challenges of high energy prices cannot be dealt with in the same way as a financial crisis or a covid crisis, because this is based on real physical conditions. We risk a lack of energy and therefore the market behaves as it does. The removal of Danish energy taxes would not improve the situation, as the National Bank also emphasises. Then I would like to quickly read out a text for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten, SF and Radical Left: Proposals for adoption • Global energy price increases can lead to a difficult economic situation for many Danish families. In 2022 a majority of the Danish Parliament has agreed to allocate a total of 2 billion. kr. for a heat check to give Danes without large incomes a helping hand. The government is monitoring developments on an ongoing basis. The long-term solution is green transition. V 57). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330134434	Thank you for receiving the text of the proposal. It will be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330134440	Thank you for that, and thank you for that inspiring speech. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur a little bit about is that it is reasonable here to say that people who last year have earned a given sum, which is then in the category that the Social Democratic Party regards as wealthy, that is to say, people who in a couple earn more than DKr 30,000, even if they saw this year, when these price increases are really going through, earn less, perhaps because they have lost their jobs, become ill or have retired, do not get this check that the red parties have agreed on. Why haven't you been able to handle it? Well, I guess we all agree that when you make just over 30,000 kroner, it's not like you're super rich, so you're expected to just have money on the coffin floor for the next year, when you had to earn even less, to handle a heating bill that might have grown by 20,000, 25,000, 30,000 kroner.?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330134541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330134542	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt puts words in my mouth and in my party when he says that we believe that people who cannot get the heat check are wealthy. We didn't say that. There are people with incomes that can be described as ordinary, who cannot get the heat check because we have just chosen to go after them with the lowest incomes, which in turn is also in line with what the National Bank has recommended to direct the effort towards. On the question of the reasonableness of that, one might well ask whether we should have made an application-based model instead. But it will take longer. In addition, there will certainly be some who have a great need, who will end up not applying, because this kind of thing often poses obstacles for people who may be in a socially vulnerable situation. Secondly, if, for example, you are in a very tight position because you have retired, and you cannot get the heat check, you can apply for some of the municipal aid schemes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330134654	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330134655	Well, there's definitely some stringency in it. I don't dispute that at all. It's not like people in the Treasury are bad clerks. At least we don't know that in all areas. But the big question is why has it been decided to set up a system in which people who may be earning something other than what they did last year are treated differently today? It is now that the price increases have gone through, and it is now that people are getting these huge bills on gas, heat, but also consumer goods. So when you're so zealous and down to the detail, how can you make such a mistake?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330134733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330134734	It's not a mistake, and sir. Morten Messerschmidt asks exactly the same question in another round here, so I have to come up with the same answer, which is that there will of course be some challenges, that there will of course be some examples, but that it would also be even more complicated if, for example, we had to make an application-based model where we were going to hire a lot of people to sit and deal with these different applications from over 400,000 households.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330134802	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330134804	Well, we're gonna have to get some facts straight. Energy prices and inflation were therefore already rising before the conflict in Ukraine. The crisis has contributed to this, but the increases came in the autumn and inflation has also been there in the autumn and over the winter. So there are some people who have trouble paying bills because of the challenges, and now we hear that a couple who are teachers, a couple who are sosu's, or a couple who are educators, belong to the high-paid category. So the government doesn't have any help on its way to them. I hear you have help for those who are on transfer income and something like that, and that is fine. But what about ordinary families of children, a teacher and a teacher, that is to say those who are out there, who live in a parcel house and who have two small children, where the amount of availability is absolutely not large? They can just look at rising prices, they find it difficult to afford shopping, they have difficulty driving their car back and forth at work. And what's the government's response to these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330134909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330134910	After all, we have just raised the limit on the heating check, so for example, there will also be more ordinary families for children who will benefit from it. But yes, there will be some who are in the buckle in between and who are close to either being covered by the heat check or not, and that will of course be a shame for many of the families. And I know it's deeply frustrating to sit at home and look at rising energy prices and maybe have to cut a vacation away, maybe have to cut a movie away. But I also think it is important that we remember that there are some proportions in this, which is that there are also some who sit and have to turn off the heat at home. There are some who have had to start cutting into the food budget, and that is why, after all, we still choose to give the heat check relatively targeted some families who have some incomes that are at the lower end.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135009	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135010	But social democracy is so decoupled from that reality. If you're a pedagogic couple, you've already cut into your food budget because the money isn't out there, and I hear here from the government that the answer is that it's just too bad, Sonnyboy. Quite normal people in the labour market cannot get any help, and then they say that it is just a pity that there is no money. Let me just point out that last year the state had a surplus of 57 billion. kr. and that this year a profit of about 17 billion is expected. kr. Well, the Danes have paid in more money than the government expects you to need. So where does that come from, that the government has no money at all? The state budgets show exactly something else, but there you dig and dig for yourself and you don't want to give the Danes their money back. So what's the answer to that couple, where they're nurses, and where else you've said a lot, uh, they're having a hard time? What's the answer to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135102	Thank you. That is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135104	The answer is that this is a difficult economic situation for many and that this is also an uncertain situation, including for our economy. So, compared to the fact that the state is bothering itself, there are no expectations, as I said, that these increased energy prices, which we see, will mean that the state will make a lot of money out of it. So it is a difficult economic situation, both when we look at the economy and, of course, at home with some of the people who, for example, are sitting with gas guys.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135139	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135142	Thank you. I think, like both Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, that there is really something to be done about the agreement that has now been made by the government together with some support parties. I simply think that the government is in a completely different reality from the one in which the citizens out there are, who are experiencing hugely rising energy prices everywhere. This, of course, puts a great deal of strain on the budgets. And then the governing party here tells the wondering citizens out there: Once in August or September, you'll get a little Band-Aid on the wound. It's also a very small patch on the wound. And then you talk here from the government that it will take longer if you have to make another arrangement. But it's gonna take a hell of a long time now. So government: Think now; try to do something that will benefit the citizens. As a citizen out there, it is expected that the government will step in and share out the huge amount of money that, after all, comes into the state tax because of these high energy prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135250	Well, there are plenty of citizens who will benefit from the heat check. It will benefit more than 400,000 Danish households. So it is simply not true when Mr. Peter Skaarup says it's not something we're thinking about. We can ask ourselves: What was the alternative? Was it that we should grant tax reductions in general and lubricate it thinly to everyone? Well then, there would be significantly less money for those who actually stand and have the greatest problems. Personally, I do not think that I, or people with my income level, need tax reductions in the situation we are in now, because there is a reason why energy prices are high, and that is that we are at risk of having a real shortage, and we also have to deal with that. Therefore, we cannot just say that the state should go in one by one and keep the Danes free in this situation. That is not possible, nor is it possible in relation to the real physical situation where we are in a situation of shortage.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135352	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135353	Well, here we are not talking about some high-paid people getting a gift from the state. We are talking about some people and more questioners have been talking about what is at a very low level of income and which gets nothing out of what the government has proposed. That's the big problem. And in fact you can imagine people who have a very low level of income at the time when we have the high energy prices and who do not benefit from this system either. So I think the government has done all sorts of things wrong. And you've made it completely for the red side. It is even worse, I think, that you do not take the whole parliament in and negotiate and agree on something that benefits the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135437	I've taken note of that, sir. Peter Skaarup's position, but I would like to stress once again that there are over 400,000 households in Denmark that will benefit from the heat check. I have not seen any model presented by any of the bourgeois parties, and this is a discussion we have had for a long time, so there has been plenty of opportunity to present our models. However, I have not seen anything more determined to go in and support the families that are most economically affected. On the contrary, what the bourgeois parties are proposing is not financially responsible. That's what the National Bank says, too. It's black and white.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135513	The next brief remark is to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135517	Thank you. Now I have to change my questions a little, because that is not true. We have made many suggestions. In fact, I believe that some of us here from the bourgeois wing started to travel it back in November 2021, among other things. with motion for a resolution B 39, which said that with the high energy prices we must be better at having our own supply and energy and that it must be cheaper to be a Dane. It poured the government down the board, completely. And there we also said that we need a plan for the expansion of the VE. We still don't. Now a distribution policy has been drawn up with a check, but in the meantime everything has become more expensive. We have high inflation. We have several places where food prices have risen by 16%. Are we going to have a milk check and a gas check, or where is it going to end? Now you've made a check without us being there. We haven't even been called to the second round, and we've been pressing for us to solve this and do something that could actually help us find a solution. That was, for example. roll back some of the 40 tax increases that the government has launched over the last three years, and if you did, it was nothing to lubricate thinly. There you can get a lot for DKK 5,900. So what will the government actually do to help the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135636	I have to say that I think it is almost a little comical that with a proposal that it should not be more expensive to be a Dane or that we should have a plan for the VE, it should have been the case that if we had listened to the rather unconcerned idea of the Conservatives here, we would not have been in the current situation that we are in and that it should have been more helpful to those who have high heat prices; I have to say that. And yes, of course it is part of the long-term solution, and the long-term aim is so much closer that we have to put speed and we have to put turbo on it that we become independent of fossil energy sources. Because it is not just climate policy. It has also become our security policy. It is also about our financial security that we must ensure it. However, there has been no concrete model on the table, even from Conservatives, other than that you want to spend some more money, and it has not been funded. Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll must remind me if there was a more concrete model, but I do not remember it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135740	Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135742	The original thing we did together with several civil parties was to use what was saved. That was 2.7 billion. kr., and it was already early. The government wouldn't do that. Now we have entered the next year and you can say that you also save. But the problem is that now everything has become more expensive. Now it's not just energy; that's all. I get a lot of inquiries, including... Today after your press conference from a citizen who says: I'm not in this; I'm cancerous, I'm on cash aid, I'm warming up wood pellets, and I'm not getting any pleasure from this. I have received so many inquiries after your press conference from citizens who simply sit with a certain body part in the water crust, and they get no help. If you eased wider, you could have helped many more, including the working families of children in the welfare sector, who don't benefit from this because they have too much income.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135831	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135833	I just have to say that I still think that Conservatives and the bourgeois parties have no relation to the fact that this general tax and tax relief issue is not advised to be a good tool in the situation we are facing, with challenges of inflation and with high energy prices, where there is a risk that tax relief will be greatly overwhelmed and result in rising energy prices, precisely because of the basic fact that there is a lack of energy. The head is shaken, but that is basic economic theory.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135910	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330135925	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for the speech by the Minister and thank you for the urgent question. I would like to start by saying that in the Left we originally went to these negotiations with the intention that we would help the Danes who were particularly affected by the rising energy prices in relation to heating. It has not become less topical, it has become more topical. Our approach was then that we would help at the bottom with some amount. We had set an amount of money where we said that there we would help the municipalities, which already have those subsidies for those who are, if I may say so, least affected. In addition, we said that we would help the Danes in general, and we had, in fact together with Enhedslisten, talked about an amount. And we acknowledge that we had taken an amount from the fact that we said: this is a very special situation. We chose then to say that we would bet 2.7 billion. kr. to help the Danes. What we could understand when we entered the negotiating room was that the government would not spend an amount that looked like 2.7 billion. kr. We ended up with an amount of 1.25 billion. kr. We did not propose general tax reductions. What we proposed was specifically tax reductions on electricity, because it is electricity that we have to move into. We thought that was responsible. We recognise that the discussion was also that it was especially gas prices that changed, but we had the view that we would help all Danes in this situation by lowering the electricity tax. It wouldn't have been such a big amount. We did not leave the negotiating room because we said that we would not be at all involved in discussing some model, but we thought that the model was technically complicated. In fact, we had a very specific proposal to go to the utilities that are responsible for gas supply to people, and that could have been hit by a rifle saying: who gets a rising gas bill, and who doesn't? The reality is that some of those who get this check may have had a fixed price agreement and, as such, not experience anything that is rising right now. If you had chosen to go to the gas dealers selling the gas, you would have been able to make a relatively fast drive and hit it with a rifle. When we were discussing this, we would not be involved in an amount of 2.7 billion. kr. Our approach was to say that in the given situation we were willing to do something extraordinary. And this is an extraordinary situation and the situation has not become less extraordinary. Having said that, our argument to support here is that a particular group has been hit harder by price increases than the general group. We acknowledge that in the long term it may be difficult to help all Danes with all rising prices, and therefore we said that the argument that we went into this was that some customers were linked to gas, which had a very special increase, and that is still the situation. So we are going to support a text for adoption which we are currently working on, where we are saying something about the level of ambition that is too low and where we say something about the fact that those who get are too few, and that is understood all the arguments that have come to light, that there really are families out there who may well have a higher income than the amount that is now as badly affected as others. And that is why we have an approach in which we say that we would help in a different way and we would help more. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140338	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140346	The Left promised that they could do a lot during these hot negotiations. Firstly, the climate rapporteur, Mrs Bjerre, from the Left yesterday, tweeted that they had an easy model to ensure quick payout. So we just really want to hear from the parties to the agreements, which have a model we know when it comes, who gets and how much they get: When is it that the Left can provide heat help out there to the Danes, and who is it that gets? 'Cause if mr. Carsten Kissmeyer has 2.7 billion. kr. and they need to be targeted, so it would be nice to know who it is that gets and how much and what the easy, fast payment model is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140425	The easy, fast payout model was actually what I just said. It was to take the gas dealers who actually deal with the gas and who know who has had a rising gas price. Then you would have taken the 2.7 billion. kr. Or if you took what we needed to get to the bottom, you'd split it up. And that would be a relatively fast drive, for all gas dealers of course know what their prices look like. Then it would be a reduction in the price; it would not be a heat check. We recognise that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140455	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140456	Okay, so only Danes with a gas guy get help, and not Danes who have gas in their district heating will get help from the Left. Then at least there is a group that does not get the help of the Left but gets the help of the heat check. The Left has also been out proposing that the electricity tax should be reduced. After all, it is subtle that the Left can mean it and then at the same time is not part of the electricity tax reduction agreed in Denmark, and it actually comes into effect with a reduction of 14 cents here on 1 July. So can we now expect the Left to put the words seriously behind it and back up the reduction in the electricity tax that is on the way, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140533	We are not included in this package because we could not eat the package. When we want to lower the electricity tax, it is because we want more of it. And in the case of district heating plants using gas, they also receive a bill from a gas company, which is why they would identify the district heating plants that received the gas bill, so they would also be included in the model we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140557	The next brief remark is from Mrs Anne Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140559	Thank you so much. It is exciting to learn more about the simple model, which is now such a myth that floats out in Mediedanmark and on social media. I would like to hear: if you take the simple model of the Left and give the money to the companies, which then have to pass it on, would there still be an opportunity to upgrade income, in other words to ensure that it is not just direct support for fossil fuels for people with high incomes in many cases who can pay a higher gas bill? Would there still be DKr 6 000 out there, which would come out to the families most in need of it, just as they will get with the heat check that the government and a majority have made? Would there still be 6,000 kroner out of it? Out to those families?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140654	If we consider that the number of households with any gas in their heating is around 500,000 households and that 500,000 households were given DKr 6,000. Each, that would be 3 billion. kr. And with a little backflow, it would probably end up at 2.7 billion. kr. So I guess it wouldn't hit so bad. That's why the model is simple. I then recognise that there would be some who would be on a higher income that would be paid, but that would not bother us greatly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140730	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140731	Okay, the thing that puzzles me is then, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer has spent the 2.7 billion. I would also like to add a few words, but there should also be more money to reduce the electricity tax in general and in broad terms, as Mr Beyer de Ryke has said. Carsten Kissmeyer's colleague Mrs Marie Bjerre has been quoted as saying in many places in the media these days. Well, then, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer perhaps just outline how much money in this simple model should be given to the companies and the general reduction of electricity taxes? It could be exciting to find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140810	Our approach was, of course, that we could not get through with the electricity taxes, and that is why we came up with an alternative model. That is what I have outlined here at the end. The alternative model would be simple. That is certainly our assessment. That's why this is gonna work out. We recognise that we would have liked to have reduced electricity taxes. It would have been a good model, and it would also have benefited all Danes, but we also recognise that the particular gas situation allowed you to shoot a rifle at those who had a challenge with the gas. And we actually acknowledged that at that time too. In fact, we were also in the negotiating room with a figure of 2.7 billion. kr., and we actually had the picture that Enhedslisten would have liked to have been involved, and then I think we had found a payout model that had also been simpler.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140855	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330140912	It is not without cost that Europe is at war, and we all feel the rising energy prices. I am basically concerned that we are getting green heat and retiring natural gas, since it is the black energy that drives up energy prices. But I am also concerned that the Danes, who cannot get away from their gas boiler or gas heating and get district heating, and those who feel particularly hard that they are being hit by rising prices, must have an economic helping hand. On the short track, SF has therefore been concerned that the economic support has been given where you are most affected by the rising heat prices and where the revenues are least. That is also why SF and other parties are now paying 2 billion. kr. overall in a heat check this year and a grant of 200 million. kr. to help municipalities to cover the costs they are obliged to assist through legislation, for example: Danes on transfer income. It does not stand in the way of the long-term solution and the track we hold on to is a profound green conversion of the Danes' heat, while at the same time helping them to save energy. The two solutions are better than unthought-out reductions in energy taxes, which will, after all, be thinly lubricated and at the same time do not relate to where the hardest increase in energy prices is being felt. At the same time, it must also be borne in mind that energy taxes are being reduced, so there must be funding not only this year but lastingly in the years ahead. At the same time, this will also mean that there may be a risk that there will be less room for welfare in the long term. Then I just have to remind you that there is a reduction in the electricity tax on the road which will enter into force on 1 July. It is an agreement that many bourgeois parties are not part of, despite the fact that they are just highlighting that tool. In addition, it is true that you have, for example. electricity heating in its house and spends more than 4,000 kWh, then there is the EU minimum tax of 0.8 cents on electricity consumption. That means it can't go down any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330141148	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330141152	SF was the banner manager for the nurses this summer. They were supposed to have higher salaries and all sorts of other things, and that's perfectly fair, but now you're making a deal that the nurses just don't get into; even those who are on reduced time, for the most part you're going to go over this amount too. Why are nurses suddenly so highly paid that they do not also need help? Many of them live in homes where they also experience rising heating bills and also rising food prices and everything else. Why have the nurses suddenly become so well paid here that they do not need a helping hand?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330141236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330141237	We're gonna set up 2 billion. kr. for a heat check, a concrete financial help to pay the heating bills, and there is an income limit for it; it is now DKK 650,000. for household income. And it may be different which composition is in the household, but to make a targeting at a level so that there will be 6,000 DKK. out, yes, then the cut must be put somewhere. SF is still fighting away for nurses to get higher salaries, and one might ask, "Why is it that New Citizens are suddenly so preoccupied with nurses?" I have not heard them very much concerned, for example. The salary level of nurses, but it may be that it has been chosen for the occasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330141322	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330141324	Oh, that is not true, Mrs Signe Munk, because when we had the debate earlier, we proposed tax and tax reductions which would give an average family DKr 6 000. More a month after tax, and it is absolutely also to worry about the amount of availability that nurses have. And that is the question here. Right now, the wages of nurses, whether you like it or not, are being eroded by rising prices and increasing heating charges. So for the citizens out there and for the nurses out there, it is about what they have in their pockets, not some gross salary. And right now you could have made an agreement that had included the nurses, because you say that they are not highly paid, but you have chosen to make a cut with the SF's approval so that the nurses do not come along, and then the answer to them must be: you are so highly paid that it is not necessary for you to receive a subsidy for your increasing heating bills. Anything else would be crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330141414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330141416	We have chosen a targeting for the Danes with the lowest household income and set a cut of DKK 650,000. You can negotiate that cut up and down, and this is the cut we could agree on in the contract circle. When we have then agreed to lower the electricity tax per year. July 1st an agreement, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's party is not part of the "Well, of course, a nurse and all Danes will also benefit from the lowering of the electricity tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330141447	Thank you to Mrs Signe Munk. There are no more brief remarks to be made to the rapporteur. Signe Munk It was boring). Then the next rapporteur is ready, and that is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330141504	It is, of course, a question of what the government has of intentions, and we can then reflect on that. It is the view of the Enhedslisten that we are not where there should be tax and tax reductions at all. That's not what's in focus with us. But we can see that some analysis may be missing. We find it interesting when the Elders Case comes forward and says that with the price increases that have been experienced, the pension should be increased by 5 billion. kr. a year. We would very much like to listen to that. There are also some negotiations, some benefit negotiations, which hopefully will end the ceiling on cash benefits and regulate some benefits, so that some of the poorest people in Denmark will have a lighter life. And we have now landed this agreement to come up with a heating aid for special groups, and we think that is a fair agreement. What is it the state can afford? We have helped to highlight that the state is saving some money on support for biogas and offshore wind farms at the moment because there are high energy prices. We have seen in the past that there was an extra bill because the biogas had become more extensive than was expected, and then there were some low prices for some years, and then there was an extra bill of 6 billion. kr., which the government took. I think we have come to the conclusion that over time we have adjusted our support systems so that we will not be so affected by such extra costs. And it can be said that if the former government's energy minister had intervened more quickly, we would not have got into the situation that so many biogas plants had been built that would have to receive that aid. So it is a question of conducting an energy policy in which the finances are managed. I think it is really a pity that we are faced with the abolition of the green cheque for a large number of people with low incomes in the agreement made by the Danish People's Party, Radicals, SF and Social Democrats. I think it is a very good tool to have the green check to adjust up and down when, for example, we have. experience that we have high electricity prices as at the moment. A sensible grip would be to increase the green check, and this could happen quickly. Because they acknowledge what we have ended up in here with the heat check, yes, we will have the legal process next week, and then we can see the reasons why it has to go so slowly, but I recognise that there is certainly a good reason why it cannot happen faster. We would have liked to see this tax-free check of DKK 6,000. quickly came out to these over 400,000 households, who get the special help in the situation where they have high energy costs because they have gas heating or pure electric heating. The thing about the heat check that has now been landed is, in fact, the one part of what is necessary. The second part is all the more necessary, namely that we should be able to eliminate our dependence on fossil gas, that we should no longer contribute to Putin's war of aggression in Ukraine, but that is a difficult task. It is a difficult task when we have to find another solution at household level, either a district heating solution which is some kind of green form of district heating, or an individual solution where we need to have, for example. heat pumps instead of an individual gas boiler. We look forward to the negotiations, which will hopefully start next week, on the important part of putting turbo on the re-evaluation of municipal heat planning; that we will have to deal with the extent to which the district heating pool should be increased and what other aid schemes should be increased. And then we have to remember the energy savings. It's like you're forgetting them a little bit. It is all about technology and so on, but energy saving is immensely important for the whole of Europe. It is a good tool that should not be forgotten. And then we will also come to some negotiations at some point to discuss CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220330141912	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330141916	Thank you. Well, it's just to get some facts straight, because energy prices went up in the fall. I hope that Enhedslisten will agree with that. And it was very much because it blew less than was expected, and it rained less in Norway. And these are two fine renewable energy sources, but also unstable renewable energy sources, where the price can fluctuate very much due to some natural circumstances. Does the Enhedslisten recognise that if you base your energy policy on these fairly unstable technologies at this stage, then consumers out there will experience very fluctuating prices in that way and with the policy being pursued?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142008	We are at the point where setting up wind turbines is the cheapest expansion when you need more electricity. And then it is important that we have a good energy mix, where we have both sun and wind. And we need to see that the geothermal system fills up much more in our district heating systems. And then we need a certain amount of biomass, as well as ensuring security of supply and ensuring that heat is also available in peak situations. So I think that, in a relatively few years' time, we will be able to achieve a more stable overall energy supply than we now have. And then we also need to have more intelligent use of electricity, so that we will be more consuming electricity at the times when we have a surplus of electricity, so that we charge electric cars at night so that heat pumps sometimes raise the temperature in some households at the ideal times. So intelligent management of our renewable energy is also part of the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142113	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142114	Well, I take that as a confirmation that it was very much the cause of these increases in energy prices that we have seen. I would like to ask Enhedslisten something, because now they were talking about green cheques, and I suppose that is something that was also brought into negotiations on this, because it is obvious to do so. What kind of parties were it that were steeped in the solution where money could then have been obtained immediately? Because I agree that this was a quicker solution than the solution that has been found here. So why couldn't Enhedslisten get through with it? Was it Enhedslisten, or was it SF who didn't want to be at a green check? Was it the Social Democratic Party? Who did not want to make such a green check, which is something I am sure Enhedslisten has brought to the negotiating table?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142158	Well a green check is not suitable to compensate the, what to say, special groups that have been hit by high gas prices. Green check is very suitable to help the people who have the lowest income, to pay their electricity bill. And it has been difficult in the negotiations to make it seem that it also helped the electricity bill. So we have put that position on our own. So it's been hot negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142234	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, who has no further brief comments to make to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142249	After all, this is not the first debate we have on this subject... the towering energy prices... but it would have been a good thing if we had had this discussed properly in the course of November. Because we started to raise this problem, like other blue blocks, that there were very high energy prices and that there was high inflation. We could see it coming. How would that be handled? We appealed to the government to do something. Something was sprinkled in the municipal elections in the form of a heat check, which has not yet been paid. Then there have been a lot of rounds at the table without anything concrete coming out of it, and in the end we had to leave that table because it was too little. The starting point was, of course, that we thought that the money that the government had not spent on support for renewable energy should be paid out to the Danes. And it was all the way back in January, when we sat more from the blue block and suggested it. Now we are, like, approaching the 2 billion. kr. kr. back then. In the meantime, what we see is that it has become expensive to be a Dane at all gas prices, food prices, energy prices. It has all been expensive, accelerated by the terrible war in Ukraine. So what are we gonna do? After all, we believe that the heat check that has just been presented today is really disappointing in a lot of ways. First of all, there's nothing urgent about this. The check doesn't come until August-September, i.e. Ten months after we started raising the problem. It's amazing that it has to take so long for something to be acute. Secondly, you are going for a limit which is still, you might say, low, if you think of some of those who are really working hard in this society too; not because we are not supposed to keep our hands on those who are weak and on the transfer income they must of course also have. We must try to help everyone, but especially those who pull the load in our health care, our teachers, our educators, our sosu's, police officers, those who are on the front line every day in our welfare community, they don't get any pleasure from this. The income limit is simply too low if you had to do something for them. At the same time, we've seen that we need to speed up the green transition... that hasn't been seen with green glasses on this. There are citizens calling me who say: why do you need money? After all, there is no incentive for saving energy. I switched to electricity, but at least I save my energy consumption, the citizen called me and said, 'Cause it's expensive. Well, now people can get money, but there is no incentive for you to do something more, something extra, to get us out of this crisis. Should we keep giving check after check? It has to go on several legs: 1) We have to look at how we can make it more energy efficient out there, in other words help citizens save; and 2) we have to look at tax reliefs all over and remove some of the 40 tax and tax increases that the government has rolled out over the last three years, which make Denmark have the world's biggest tax burden. Then we could really help some of those who work hard in this society. We find it very, very disappointing that this also continues without us even being invited to the table. We have actually tried to be constructive; we have tried to come and say whether we should also hold a planning meeting on how to develop renewable energy. It has also come to a halt in many areas. We have a question for the Minister about that a little later today. We all really want to do this, so I think it is very unfortunate that this is being pushed aside by the fact that the blue wing does not want to do that. We would like to do something for the Danes, especially for some of those who contribute to our society, but we are not even involved in that. And then it's something that comes so late, because we can see that we also get high energy prices next winter that shows all the predictions. So what will the government do there? We would really like to hear from the government about that. And I also hope that we will be allowed to sit at the table, because this is a joint responsibility. We want to do something for our society and achieve the green transition. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142705	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142709	A brief summary from Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll of how much money the Conservatives intend to spend on help because of the rising energy prices, who gets the help, and whether it is energy taxes that need to be lowered or whether it should be a targeting of some money. So, as far as funding is concerned, who gets and how much is needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142733	Originally, it was the case that we had to give to those who had the high gas prices. We saw that very much, but now we are in a different situation. Now it is expensive everywhere, also for those who use electricity. So what we are proposing in concrete terms is that we increase the employment allowance. We have also introduced tax cuts of 7 billion in our own financial act. kr., while at the same time we can afford both health, the green transition and the defence. So we have clear proposals on how this can be done. We'll give it wide.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142808	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142809	Okay, so there is really no concrete approach to whether people are feeling particularly rising heat prices, but it is just general tax policy, which is the answer from the Conservatives. The Conservatives were out promising that you would need about 5 billion. kr. on heating after we had negotiated the first heat check, so it is a little exciting how the various proposals evolve. But now it is an increase in the employment allowance and tax relief in general that is the answer to the increase in energy prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142845	But that is because it is not just energy price increases that we are seeing today. It's a different scenario than five months ago, now it's everywhere. That is why I am asking: should we then give a gas check to those who drive a long way to get to work? We can't keep handing out checks like that. That is why we are saying that instead of increasing the employment allowance for everyone, we need to benefit from it. There are certain other areas in which we can also provide some tax relief so that it helps everyone and you get more money between your hands so that it is not so expensive to be a Dane. We originally thought it was 2.7 billion. kr. to be paid, but now it has taken so long that it is not an emergency aid anymore. So now we need much more help to the Danes, because a lot of people are under pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142928	The next brief remark is to Mrs Paulin, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330142931	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll how she feels about what the National Bank has to say, namely that it does not provide general tax and tax relief, but instead targets aid to those who most need it, who are in the worst economic situation. Because the way I hear it, it's something else Conservatives want. It is, of course, very general: to give to everyone, both those on high incomes and those on low incomes. So what does Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll say about the recommendations of the National Bank? Is that not something that impresses the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143008	It must be clarified what is to come from tax cuts. After all, what is at stake is that we are giving it from the bottom up, by means of the employment allowance. We are on the goal of that, we can raise that from the bottom up. It is not a matter of giving to everyone in general, it is targeted at that area. Another place you can take from is some of the job centers. From here, money can also be taken out to provide general tax relief, for example. by increasing the employment allowance. Now it is actually the case that the state has a very large surplus. The current surplus is one of the highest profits according to the National Bank. So there's enough money. But if you do what the government is doing now, then there are still a lot of people who do not enjoy it because it has all become expensive. I used to give an example of someone who heats his house with wood pellets, is on cash aid and is cancer sick, and he doesn't get any benefit from this. Is that helping those who are hardest?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143103	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143104	I can at least understand that the changes that Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll is going to make to the employment allowance will not benefit the many people, such as Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. are pensioners, or are on transfer income, etc. But with regard to the general discouragement of using the fiscal instrument, which is to make general tax and tax cuts, does it not make an impression on Conservatives that the National Bank is giving this advice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143143	After all, we are helping everyone, including pensioners, who live in a cottage with power panels because we want to reduce taxes and taxes. A pensioner who lives in an electric cottage does not benefit from this because he is heating up with electricity. They experience very, very high energy prices and heating bills, although they do not heat up with a gas guy. We think that we should help much wider, so that it is not so expensive to be a Dane. Whether you are a pensioner, on a transfer income or have a job as a nurse, you need help so that you can get it to hang together and afford transport and to buy milk at the supermarket for your children.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143230	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Excuse me, Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll, I see that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen just got in, or probably got in, but I just didn't pay attention to it. I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143245	Thanks for the opportunity. It is true that there has been a great deal of talk about heating for people who have gas heating, but it is the case that households with electric radiators or heat pumps as a primary source of heat, with a corresponding price increase, are also covered by the agreement we have reached here on the 2 billion. kr. So the pensioner mentioned just now by the rapporteur will also be able to receive this DKr 6 000. in tax-free heating checks, if it is the case that the pensioner lives legally in that summer house, and there are many pensioners who do. So it is not a correct information which the rapporteur has passed on to the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143325	Then I'd like to thank you for just updating me on it. I've read it, but I haven't received that consideration. So it was good to get that straightened out. But that does not change the fact that it is very expensive for pensioners to make the economy strike. Do you have a car you need to fill up, and it costs 15 kroner. The liter, it's also very expensive. That is how it is for everyone right now, and that is why we see how we can do better, and our path is to increase the employment allowance and lower relevant taxes and then, of course, have much more focus on the green transition. There's nothing of that in this heat check that's gonna be late, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143412	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143413	To increase the employment allowance is something that will help the pensioner who lives in that summer house and who now has the prospect of receiving DKr 6 000. In heat help? I would just like to say that it is nothing new that this includes people who have electricity heating for their homes only or mainly, because that was also included in the last agreement. So it is quite in parallel moved into the supplementary agreement that we have entered into today. It's just for enlightenment. But is it something that the pensioner also benefits from?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143442-2	You do not do that precisely because you are a pensioner, and you are not in employment. But that is also why we need to reduce taxes in other areas that benefit more Danes. After all, we have many Danes who are not active in the labour market, and there are some of them who benefit from this heat check, but there are also many of them who will benefit from wider tax reliefs, and a pensioner will also get that so that it becomes cheaper to live, and then they get more out of their folk pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143507	Thank you to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Then there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143516	It is as if the greed of this government and its support parties simply does not end up at all. Outside these thick walls is reality, and the reality of a large number of ordinary Danes with quite common wages is that they just see that their amount of available money is hollowed out, hollowed out and hollowed out. And what's the answer to a lot of these people from the government and its support parties? That's too bad, Sonnyboy. Today we have found that the government and also the support parties believe that a couple who are nurses, a couple who are educators, a couple who are sosus or teachers or police officers, actually belong to the high-paid part of Denmark, so there is no reason why they should have a helping hand. No, they're on their own. There is a very clear dividing line down through the Folketing. There are those parties that have received 57 billion from the government and the support parties. kr. in extra last year. This year we are looking at a surplus of about 17 billion. kr. But no, the money can't come back to help the Danes. The Danes need help out there. And then that's fine, I think you make this check. Unfortunately, it does not come out until sometime in August/September, yes, in the latest agreement it actually says that some of it will have to be reviewed in April 2023. Then it may be that some have had their money before, that is, over a year in the future. In New Citizens we want more, we can more, and we have to help the Danes out there. That is why we are actually proposing to reduce the base tax by 1%, to abolish the electricity tax and to abolish the tax on petrol. That is on top of what has been proposed here. We can do this in the acute and temporary situation we are in now, because these measures will cost around 17 billion overall. kr. That is what is expected of the surplus this year on government finances. In addition, we have a fundamental policy in New Citizens that we want to raise the elderly cheque for the poorest by DKK 1.000. a month. We would like to remove registration fees on cars. And we will increase the employment allowance, so that the first DKK 90,000 you earn is tax-free, and then you pay 37%. • no labour market contribution, no top tax. That is our general policy. But we are also in a situation where we can do something now temporarily because we had a huge surplus last year and because we are also expecting a surplus this year. So the money's there. We just have a government and some support parties that are so greedy that they in no way want to give this money back to the Danes. So ordinary Danes out there must feel the reality that is. The parliament in here is not going to notice that there are new times. We want another way in New Citizens, and that is why the Danes must of course have their money back.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143853	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a wish for a few brief remarks to be made to the rapporteur and the first one is from Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143857	We have just been involved in an agreement on heating aid for specific groups, and these are some who have an income in the household of less than DKK 650,000. It is people who are affected by having a high heating bill, either because they are dependent on gas or pure electric heating, and the rapporteur calls that so greed that we go in and help that part of the population who has the lowest income and who is affected by a specific high heating bill. That's the abuse of a word. It has nothing to do with greed, it is a priority of a social policy that we take it from the bottom up, and it is people with the lowest incomes who have been hit by unacceptable high gas prices or who have been caught up in being dependent on electricity heating, and we then go in and help. It's a good deed, and it has nothing to do with greed. This tumorous rhetoric doesn't seem to me to belong here in the Folketing when we discuss such matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330143959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144000	But the greed is that you got 57 billion. kr. In addition, last year, a surplus of 17 billion is expected. kr. this year, and then it's easy to be the happy giver with 2 billion. kr., when you get much more in, and that's what greed is, that is, all the extra billions you get in, you don't want to give out to the Danes, and that's the definition of greed, that is, you keep by far the most to yourself and give a little change to the others.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144030	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144031	After all, we have not finished the year, and the Enhedslisten looks forward very much to having some good financial law negotiations with the government, and there is the prospect that, after it has turned green, the government will hopefully come up with a green financial bill that will indicate how we can transform our entire society into a more sustainable society. So there is really no reason to say at the beginning of the year that we are in a situation where the government or the parliamentary basis is greedy. No, we have started by doing good deeds and paying out a heating aid, and that is what we have dealt with today in a supplementary agreement, so it has nothing to do with greed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144111	So far, it's greed. Then it may well be that Enhedslisten has a large number of other policy initiatives on the drawing board, that is fine, and I will deal with them when they come to the Chamber, but so far that is not what has happened, and so I am addressing the reality, and not with the political wishes of the future Finance Act, which Enhedslisten believes they can get on the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144130	The next brief remark is to Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144133	If we were to start by dealing with political realities, the dividing line is right now between the parties that have agreed to actually do something to give 2 billion. kr. in a financial handout to a heat check and then the parties who talk. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen belongs to the parties that talk. But let's try to figure out how far we can go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. The rapporteur speaks of the complete removal of the electricity tax. But what about actually taking a step on the way to lowering the electricity tax and agreeing to the agreement that is, to lower the electricity tax per year? 1 July in Denmark can more? Is the rapporteur ready for this? And we must understand that the rapporteur is directly opposed to giving 2 billion. kr. in heating aid for the Danes, or does the rapporteur actually think that is okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144228	I think the rapporteur should have listened more closely to what I was saying from the platform. I said that this solution has now been chosen, and it's fine, but it's not enough. That is exactly what I said in my speech. I did not say that it was not a step in the right direction. I know there are others who have said that, but you have to deal with what I have said and what the position of the new citizens is. In addition, we have a removal of the electricity tax from our economic programme. If a motion for a resolution is tabled, and I would like to do so with the SF to remove the electricity tax, then we will be voting in favour of it at any time. So let us go together and make a proposal here to remove the electricity tax. Then we'll see if SF wants to be a part of it. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144308	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144309	I think sir... Lars Boje Mathisen forgot to listen. SF will not remove the electricity tax. I say that there is just a reduction in the electricity tax, which has been agreed in Denmark can more. Why will New Citizens not join it? And if New Citizens then really think it's okay with the 2 billion. kr., why don't New Citizens just join the heat check and actually get a financial heat help to the Danes with the lowest revenues that are hardest hit by the rising heat prices, instead of just standing here and talking loose?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144334	Now both I and the rapporteur are fairly new in the Folketing, but we both know that we can vote for something, even if we are not in agreement, because there may be other elements in the agreement. However, if Mrs Signe Munk wishes to insist that we in Denmark, when it arrives in the Parliamentary Chamber, can more easily separate it into a bill, so that we can only vote in favour of electricity reductions, then we should be happy to vote in favour of them in the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144355	The next brief remark is to Mrs Paulin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144357	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen makes a long speech about how greedy the state is. So I'd like to hear Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, if he can't confirm that it's very likely that this year is the case, that in that our energy taxes are part-time taxes, so that you pay for e.g. kilowatt-time, it will probably end with a situation where the state gets less money from energy taxes than we've got before, precisely because people save on energy. Could Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144439	That emphasizes greed. We have the highest tax burden in the world. The citizens out there are suffering, they have difficulty paying their bills... police officers, teachers, sosu assistants... and the government have nothing, nothing on the program to help those people. I just say: it is not good enough when you have a surplus of 57 billion. kr. Last year and when you expect a surplus of 17 billion. kr. This year. We already have the highest tax burden in the world. Then it is time, once and for all, that politicians tighten their belts a little and then give some of the money back to the Danes so that they can actually make it out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144523	Mrs. Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144524	I have to take the answer as if Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen thus agrees that we are most likely to find ourselves in a situation where the state receives less money from taxes. Then there is also the whole question of VAT, where it can be said that even if there is an increase in VAT from energy, it will be matched by a fall in VAT from other categories of goods. Will Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is addressing the advice of the National Bank that, in the situation we are facing, general reductions in taxes are not being applied?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144604	The rapporteur is now beginning to read the same spin manual that was tried against Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. Nor have I said anything about increasing revenue with VAT and everything else. So you have to deal with the people who have said that. I didn't say that. As far as the National Bank is concerned, it is actually quite remarkable to look at what they actually say. They say that there may be a situation in which either taxes or public spending must be increased. And that is where I say: okay, it is time for politicians to tighten their belts a little, so for once it is not the Danes who have to put up with higher taxes. No, we can actually lower taxes for them, and then we have to tighten the belt a little in here with less public spending. That is also what the National Bank says is an opportunity, and that is the possibility which is the bourgeois one and which is the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144646	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. I note that the rapporteur's line has been completed and that is why I can give the floor to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144702	Thank you. I was reminded that a new chairman of the Danish People's Party has arrived, and as such I have no opinion on this, although I think many people have discovered it over the years. Morten Messerschmidt. But I can see that there is at least some continuity, where some may remember that at one point such an estimate was made of how much money it really was that the Danish People's Party spent when they promised things, versus how much money they actually had at their disposal, if you looked at what was funding for. There the concept of tulliards was invented, but in reality it may also sound much better with fairsschmidtiards. Fantas millions and fairsschmidtiards are at least what has been used here today by the bourgeois. I could understand that New Citizens actually had 57 billion. kr., you could just use it like that. I look forward to seeing the plan for how they will then be found and how they will be distributed among the Danes. I'm thinking there's gonna be a press conference this week. Funny aside, it is just quite difficult not to answer a little polemical, because we have been subjected to what one must consider to be pure populism on the part of the bourgeois parties today. I have to acknowledge that, sir. Carsten Kissmeyer actually tried to deal with the problem in a rather factual way, but it simply does not make any sense to have a whole inquiry into the fact that we are going to pay back some money that does not exist. What makes sense, on the other hand, is what we can do to get the Danes away from the fossil fuel; what we can do to remedy the situation we are in right now, with high prices. This is what the government is trying to do with the actions we are taking. I believe that a great many Danes, despite the fact that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt thinks it's a handkerchief, feels that 6,000 DKK. In fact, there's a lot of money. I can say that FH's President, Lizette Risgaard, has been out to say that she thinks it is a very good agreement that will help those people who need it most. It is also quite adequate for the attitude of the government and, I hope, the parties involved in the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144911	Thank you, Minister. So there are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister. First, it's from sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330144915	Yes, please. Yeah, I guess indifferent press meetings are mostly something the government excels in, so we'll let you stand for them there. As far as funding is concerned, perhaps we should have listened a little more closely and played a little less Candy Cross, because what actually was the 57 billion. kr., which was a profit last year. I'm not gonna mention anything about them. I mention that it is the 17 billion. kr., as you expect in profit this year. And you can use them as a lump sum, because it is a profit you expect this year. Then we have an overall long-term economic plan, and you can go to our website, www.nyebourgerlige.dk, under the plan, and there you can see our overall economic policy, where we actually increase the employment allowance, so people have to earn DKK 90,000 before they have to start paying taxes, we remove the labour market contribution and a large number of other sensible things. For example: We remove the registration tax on cars so that Danish families of children do not have to drive in poorer cars than the Swedes and Germans. That plan is fully funded. So there are no fantasy millions here in New Citizens, but we will certainly prioritise things in a different way. But it's completely figured out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145013	I fully understand that New Citizens will give priority to another way. New citizens are against most of what we do in the green area in Denmark. New citizens are, after all, a party that is in favour of a massive cut in welfare in Denmark. What amazes me a little is that those I was about to say bedmates I don't know if you can use that kind of expression in a figuratively sense, in any case, which sits there on the row next to, can live with having to fight in pieces with that kind of policy. It doesn't add up financially. But even if we said it did, even if we said it was theoretically true what was said, is that the kind of society we want? Has the Danish People's Party and the Left suddenly become parties that think that one should cut massively in the welfare state and think that one should roll back the green transition? I guess not. Therefore, I cannot understand how you can sit there as such as a Trinity pretending to have a common approach to this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145108	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145109	The difference is, of course, that New Citizens and also the other bourgeois parties, as I have at least understood, would like to help the nurses, the sosu assistants, the police officers, we actually want to do something for those people, whereas what has come from the government here is one: it's just too bad, Sonny Boy, we don't have anything on the drawing board. We can see that your available amounts out there are being eroded, we can see that you have increasing heat bills, but unfortunately we should just please the socialists, and therefore it was only so little, and the rest we must keep because we want to sit in power, and there we must have something to share out for future financial negotiations, where we must ensure that we can remain in power for another year. So we just put the citizens there before the system and the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145149	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145150	Yes, it is touching that you want to help the nurse, the sosu assistant and the police officer, to use the questioner's own expression. Is this done by cutting massively in the welfare state? I do not think that many of them will think so. What could be done was to vote in favour of the agreement we have just made now if we care about those who have the least in our society. If you do so, the President of the FH will actually help those who need it most in our society. We think a check for 6,000 kroner. for those households that are less than DKK 650,000. in annual income, is a quite good check that will be felt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145228	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145229	Nobody disputes the fact that the agreement you have made gives money to those who have the least. That is not at all what we have been discussing, Minister. What we have discussed is the reasonableness of the fact that it is so few and that it is so late, in other words, that the very categories of revenue that we have talked about sometimes should not be allowed to take part in it. For the Minister does not agree that they are also the hard hits; that if you make, we should say 32,000 kroner. a month and then you get an increased heating bill of one year, we should say 27,000 kr., is that a considerable amount to be found? If you put the rising prices on everything from milk to butter, eggs, meat, bread and so on, all of which are guided by the rising prices of heat, then it is very difficult to get things together. What we are contesting is not that all those who earn less than 30,000 kroner will receive a helping hand. What we dispute is that the vast majority of Danes who earn more should also have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145334	That is actually not true; it may well be true now, but it was certainly not true in the negotiations where the negotiator for the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen, of course, said that he could not support the fact that there was an income limit, because then the most immigrants would benefit from the money. So it is not true that the Danish People's Party would not support that those who have the least should have a part in it. That that statement from Mr. René Christensen so of course is completely wrong, is another matter. But it does not make any sense to say: yes, we want to support, but we just want to support everyone. Yes, of course it is, but then we'll be back to it with the billions. After all, there is nowhere a bag of money we can get so that we can compensate all Danes one to one for the rising price level we have seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145430	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145431	But there is, Minister. I mean, it is not imaginary money we are talking about, because it is money that should have been spent if electricity prices had not risen as sharply as they are. And I'm not assuming that the money is the money invested in VE technology, whether it's solar cells, geothermal or wind turbines, or whatever it might be like that is Joakim von And money. So, it is real money, and the government has saved that money, and yet it is said that they must not benefit the Danes affected by the price increases.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145505	I know sir. Morten Messerschmidt and also his level of intelligence well enough to know that I can only regard that speech as pure cynicism, for Mr. Morten Messerschmidt understands how things are connected, he knows very well that the way in which these things are dealt with is not in line with that, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt manufactures. But let me, after all, try one last time: does this mean that the Danish People's Party from now on believes and makes it a claim to a future government, if such a one comes, which must be supported by the Danish People's Party, that in those years when less support is to be paid for the VE, the Folketing can freely dispose of the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145542	Thank you, Minister. Time is well advanced, and it will now be the case that there are still two questioners, but that it will only be with a single round of 1⁄2 minutes duration. The first is sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145552	After all, we have to move on, and we managed to get the country together at 2 billion. kr., and it comes into the bill, so it's being tabled on Friday, and that's fine. There is a sentence in the agreement: at the same time, the parties agree to meet again soon and negotiate on the concrete measures to get rid of the gas. I would therefore very much like to appeal to the Minister to have some gaps in the calendar for the next week at some green meetings, where we can take these steps further, which can then help even more, and not just those with the lowest incomes, and that we can come up with some good solutions. And I would like to know whether the Minister has already reserved for some meetings next week, and I will look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145632	Yes, I do. At the most practical level we have the 250 million. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. There is no doubt that the situation that has arisen in Ukraine has led us to speed up some of the efforts that we might have made anyway, but which might have been planned to be a little further in the future, and that we are also generally looking at all the places where we can raise the level of ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145712	One last brief remark is made to Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145713	Thank you. Well, sir. Minister, we agree with the new citizens in some of them. We also agree that a green transition is important, and we support that, and we are very much involved in negotiations on it. We do not then agree with the Minister's interpretation that the 2.7 billion. kr. There is no such thing, because it is a question of making a decision that they are there and that we make a decision on how we fund them. We in the Left had decided on this and we would contribute to it. That's why they were 2.7 billion. kr. There. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145756	Yes, it is clear if you say that because 2.7 billion has been paid. kr. less over here, so find another place, for example. from the room, money that could in fact be taken from any pool that could have been used for something else. That's right. That is just not the argument that has been put forward all day and, moreover, not in the press either. Carsten Kissmeyer's own party, but it has been that when that money is not spent, we can just use it for something else. No, that money isn't just in an account, so you can use it for something else. We have then chosen to spend over 2 billion. kr. Any party in government will be forced to do so, and that is also why I think that Mr. Carsten Kissmeyer probably expresses himself a little more cautiously than his good colleagues here. For somewhere he may hope that his own party will come to that again at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145848	Thank you to the Minister, and with almost two minutes of time left it is now the rapporteur for the authors who has the opportunity to round off and there will be one minute's speaking time. Welcome to sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330145904	Thank you. Because, of course, we in the bourgeois camp have not only used the debate here to marvel at socialist thinking, including cashier's thinking, or perhaps lack of the same idea, but have also found a text for a proposal for adoption which I, on behalf of the Danish Liberal Party, the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Danish People's Party, must allow me to make. Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament criticises that the government is not doing enough to mitigate the effects of the high energy prices for the Danes. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government's heat check helps too few and that further initiatives are needed. Parliament therefore asks the government to initiate negotiations on new measures. V 58). Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150010	Thank you. It will also be included in the vote. As I said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will not take place until tomorrow, Thursday 31 March. No one else has asked for the floor, and that concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150038	So before we go any further, I should like to say that Question No 4 is not the same. 1 (S 643) to the Minister for Foreign Affairs by Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF) is deleted from the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150040	We are now dealing with the next item on today's agenda. 2 and the first question is to the Minister for Justice by Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150056	Here you go for the reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150116	Thank you. The question is this: what is the Minister's position on the use of light vests by police officers?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150130	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the question. Every day the police make a great effort to ensure the safety and security of all of us. Cops work hard to combat crime, and we owe them a lot of thanks for their efforts. In all the days of the year, our cops are ready to go out to shootings, robberies, fights, gang fights, and unfortunately we find that certain criminals are very ready for violence. Therefore, I am also very concerned that the officers should have the framework and tools to make them feel safe and secure when they go to work to counteract and stop crime. We in here at Christiansborg must, of course, work to ensure that the police have the right framework for what makes the officers feel safe and secure, and at the same time I think we should be careful that we do not learn here from Christiansborg how to manage reality out there, because we do not necessarily have the right conditions to lay down rules on exactly what situations police officers should do and act in what way and what equipment they should have, etc. It is my expectation that in the police circles there is always room for good dialogue between the management and the professional organisation and the employees, including in relation to use are easy-to-use. In the same way, it is also my expectation that the police, when drawing up guidelines for the use of vests in the police, will take all relevant considerations into account. The National Police have also confirmed that local police circles are very concerned about and are working hard to ensure the safety of their employees when they go to work and also when it comes to the use of lightweight vests.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150300	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150301	Thank you for the answer from the Minister of Justice. The reason for my question here in the Folketing today is that it has recently emerged that the leadership of the Funen Police will not comply with the wishes of officers to be allowed to wear safety vests, bulletproof vests. The fact that it is at all a matter of discussing it has its origins in the gang conflict, which is sometimes at the boiling point and it is shown at the moment in Odense and we know, of course, that Vollsmose is generally a dangerous place to be, especially as a police officer. One tries to protect so in different ways by being many present, if there is unrest in the street out there, and the like, and it is clear that it creates an insecurity also with the private officer, if one is not equipped enough with both crew, of course, but also with regard to personal security. This year, about a month ago, there was a 19-year-old man associated with one of the city's gang groups who was assassinated on the open street. At the same time, the police insist that in Odense people often stop cars with weapons and feel insecure about the trips that the police have in unsafe areas. That's why you want to be allowed to wear a vest. It's a difficult, difficult situation for the cops. I think that there are many in here and out in the Danish population who would pay for these tasks at all, because it is often after dark and often with the use of really tough weapons by some of the gangs that the police meet. So I think, and we in the Danish People's Party think, that we should support the police as best we can and give them the tools they need. That is why I would like to hear what the Minister will do to ensure that the police are protected as best they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150512	Just when we talk about Fyn's Police Department, there are a number of cases in connection with gang fights where visitation zones and tighter penal zones have been introduced. At the end of the situation in which the 19-year-old was killed, as mentioned, a visitation zone was also established, and in cases where search and punishment zones have been established, it is indeed the case that the Fyn police have called for the construction of the West, with an estimated increased level of threat.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150543	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150544	It is true that there are situations where the officers are wearing vests, but there are also situations where there are policemen who want to wear a vest but obviously cannot be allowed to do so, that is, where there is no freedom of choice. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice if it would not be right for the government here today, when asked about this, to send the signal that, of course, freedom of choice is needed for our police officers if they want to make use of a safety vest, a so-called lightwest. Does the Minister agree with the freedom of choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150617	In fact, I do not agree with that. Basically, I think that the issue of uniforming is a management issue. As I also said, I think these are issues that need to be addressed in dialogue with the officers, in dialogue with the professional organisations, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150633	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150634	I would just like to ask the Minister: what is the problem if there is a policeman who is out in an area he or she seems uncertain that he or she would like to wear a so-called lightwest? What's the problem with that? Why do some people sit in the system and say: Well, we do not judge that you should wear such a vest? So, what's the problem? Is it the citizen who has a problem? I guess not. I guess it's the cop who might have a problem with him not being protected well enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150711	I also think that we should ensure that there is a good dialogue about what is happening locally, that is, how to make this work properly. That is probably also one of the reasons why, in addition to the country, there are different practices. I am basically of the opinion that I believe that those who are closest to the problems are best at determining what is relevant in the situation. I and the questioner for that matter are so far from being comfortable that I think we should rather leave it to the police to assess what is relevant in the specific situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150737	Thank you. The question has been answered. We will continue with the Minister of Justice and Mr. Peter Skaarup to the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150745	Read it. Read it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150748	It is a bit in the same ball street: what is the Minister's attitude to the existing gang conflicts, for example on Funen, and the policemen's desire to be able to protect themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150758	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the question. The fight against gang crime is a very important priority for the government and my position is quite clear: we should never accept that a bunch of hardened...
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150825	I'm sorry, but there's a phone that's ringing and we need to turn it off. Does anyone know if it is? The Minister of Justice or it's an alarm. It's someone who just wants to wake up). The Minister of Justice can start over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330150840	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the question. The fight against gang crime is a very important priority for the government, and my position is absolutely clear: we should never accept that a bunch of hardened criminals create insecurity among ordinary Danes. The violent fighting and shooting of the band on the open street must never become part of everyday life in Denmark. It does not belong anywhere, it must be stopped, and I will go and I know the questioner will go very far to ensure that. When it comes to dealing with current conflicts, it is important to keep in mind that they are handled with the tools already in the police toolbox, and with the gang packages we have already done a lot together. The police have a wide arsenal of tools that can be used. This is true, for example. the possibility of introducing search zones that we talked about just now, or zones of punishment, which have also been used by the Funen Police, and where there is the possibility, if a crime is committed within the penal zone, that the penalty can be increased to double. So it is about hard and focused police work, and in this respect I think there is indeed reason to praise our talented police staff, who every day make a great and decisive effort to combat the criminal gangs. We owe them great thanks for this and, of course, we owe it to them to experience, as far as possible, the framework and equipment necessary to minimise the serious risk that comes from ensuring the safety of all of us. The government has taken a number of steps to stem gangs and their insecure crime. We have, among other things. was done in cooperation with the author's party in the multi-year agreements for the police and prosecutor's office. We have secured a significantly larger police force, and we have established a strong national investigation unit to strengthen the investigation and investigation of, among others, the situation. gang crime, but we're not in the finish line. With the servicing of the gang packages from February this year, a thorough evaluation of the action against the gangs has been carried out, and the service inspection shows that the action on the gang package has worked far along the way, but it also shows that there are some areas where we can actually tighten the grip further. We will follow this up with initiatives to strengthen the fight against gang crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151056	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151057	Thank you for your reply. Fortunately, as the Minister has said, a great deal has been done to combat organised crime and criminal gangs in Denmark. We in the Danish People's Party are impatient in order to be able to do even more, and the reason we are is that we can see that these conflicts that arise in the metropolitan area, in the Aarhus area and on Funen continue and continue, and so they continue until there are some, that is. The authorities are so strong that the gangs have so much respect for it that they stop. So it's a power struggle between these groups. And one of the things that is incredibly important when we then ask our skilled officers out in the field to fight the gangs and be out by them and man-cover them, etc. etc., and what we now want them to do is that they feel well protected for all of us. And now that there are some cops on Funen and perhaps elsewhere who want them to actually want to wear a security vest on a large scale because they feel threatened it's dangerous for them... we don't understand in the Danish People's Party that the minister doesn't just say, yes, of course you have to wear a security vest if it's not almost an order, in different situations. So I'd like to try to turn this over again with the minister. Does the Minister not think that freedom of choice is needed for our police officers who would like to make use of light vests? Will the Minister call for a general policy in this area, so that something comes from the Minister, from the Danish Parliament, which is crystal clear, which is of benefit to these officers? Does the Minister think that it is really possible to put policemen's safety too high? And doesn't the Minister really think that the Minister was in the answer here a little bit about Funen that the current level of conflict on Funen justifies the fear that ordinary police officers have for their safety today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151302	I think it is incredibly important that our officers have the best opportunity to be protected. And that is also one of the reasons why, together in the big agreement on the police and prosecutor's office, we explicitly stated that an additional 1,150 personal protective vests should be purchased for staff on the operational alert. It is precisely in order to give the opportunity to have that protection. In my view, the competence to decide when to build vests must be local, that is to say, with those who know the conditions and are engaged in dialogue, as I also have the impression that this is happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151336	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151337	And there you can have the view as a minister that you do not want to interfere with that. I am just sitting in here, I have to say, as a legal rapporteur and a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and looking at the fact that we have some police officers who feel insecure who have asked for them to be allowed to wear safety vests. Apparently they cannot be allowed to do so, and then we will be standing there again. So, of course, the Minister can resign from that debate and say that it needs to be done locally, but there are some officers who are insecure. Is this a viable situation, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151409	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151410	Our cops must always feel safe and secure. They must be given the best possible conditions for this. In my opinion, how this is put into practice is something that needs to be decided out there, where things are going on, in the police circles. That is why I think it is sensible that it is the police circles who decide how these situations should be dealt with. Moreover, as I have said a few times, I think that this should take place in dialogue between management, professional organisations, officers and so on, so that this is handled in a good and appropriate way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151445	And that is the final follow-up question. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151447	The Minister talks about dialogue between the trade unions and the police management. Apparently it's been there. And this insecurity-building situation has been reached for the officers whom we as Parliament would like to see in the field in Vollsmose after dark and try to enforce law and order, even though it is difficult. Is this a viable situation, Minister? I am still left with one big question mark, and that is: what is the Minister doing to meet these cops?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151521	As I said before, it is among other things. such that, in situations where there are search zones where there are tighter penal zones, there is also a specific requirement in the Funen Police that west be established because it is assessed that there is an increased threat picture. So in this way you also use the West in situations where you think it is relevant, and that is of course what should be the guideline. It must of course be that, where appropriate, the protective equipment must be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151552	Thank you to the Minister for Justice, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Peter Skaarup. The next question is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, who is to ask questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151601	Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt to read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151605	Thank you for that, President. Why has the government not done anything to reduce the rate of conversion that municipalities have in the field of disability, and what will the government do in the future to help disabled people with a more fair and efficient case-handling?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151627	Thank you. And thank you for the question and for the interest. The very short answer would of course be to say that both this government and previous governments have made various efforts and taken various initiatives throughout the period of criticism of the Reichsaudit, namely back from Lars Løkke Rasmussen's structural reform in 2007, but we can also see that it has not been successful with the figures we see in connection with, among other things. the conversion rates. For me, it is absolutely fundamental that citizens of our welfare societies should have the help they have the right to and need. It should not be a complaint; it should not be a fight. And that is why I also agree with the questioner that we need to reduce the conversion rates. This can't be a fight. The system must be a co-player and not a counterplayer. Among other things: In order to put an end to this, i.e. the high rate of change, the government has with the parties to the agreement, among other things. The author's own lot, set aside 117 million. kr. from the reserve for the period 2022-2025 to strengthen legal certainty and the quality of proceedings and trust between citizens and authorities in the field of disability. These are means which should translate a large number of concrete sub-initiatives into four themes, including enhanced follow-up and supervision of municipalities. One specific sub-initiative is stricter requirements for the municipalities' treatment of the Danish map, which is here, where we have knowledge about conversion rates from. In fact, I have today put forward a bill which means that when the municipalities discuss the Danish map, they must specifically consider whether there is a need to draw up an action plan in order to strengthen the legal quality of the municipality's proceedings. It is, of course, the one with which it is wrong when we see changes where cases are sent back to the municipalities. If the Ankestyrelsen does not agree with a municipality's assessment that they do not need to make an action plan, we will with that bill give the Ankestyrelsen the opportunity to give the municipality a notice that they should make such an action plan. Another specific sub-initiative is that a legal service is being carried out in the municipalities where it is worst off. Over the next few years, the Ankestyrelsen will collect cases in the area of children's and adult disability for review in order to identify the challenges facing the municipalities in this area. And then I ran out of time, but there are, as the questioner can almost figure out, a number of further initiatives which we have jointly agreed shortly before Christmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151841	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330151842	There is, but unfortunately nothing concrete. It's kind of symptomatic of the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. Last week, at my request, we discussed the problem of loneliness, especially among the elderly, but also among others in society. There was the Minister's reply that a pool of 90 million had been created. kr., I think it was • I think it was also with the Danish People's Party. Now I am asking specifically about this report that we have received, which shows a completely insanely high rate of change, that is. an extremely high error rate, in the municipalities in the field of disability, and then the Minister says: Well, together with the Danish People's Party a pool of 117 million has been created. kr., and that you want to do an action plan and some service inspection and something like that. But there are not really any concrete thoughts, and I am really a little puzzled about that. What one might think is that many of the municipalities sit and think in a financial gain, because the longer one can draw a grant, the longer one has saved on it. There, of course, one could suggest, if one sat in government, that the money saved due to the length of the proceedings should nevertheless be collected and given to the citizens. It could also be considered whether the responsibilities that exist today, where the municipalities have acquired the handicap area, are the right and up-to-date. Many of those with disabilities around the municipalities have such specialized situations that you can discuss whether the municipalities can handle it and in fact even more relevant whether they can solve it. There are plenty of things you can look at, for example. in relation to the visitation and how we can provide youth housing for young people with disabilities, so that they are not just placed in nursing homes. It is therefore in relation to quite specific things that I think something could be proposed. It's not that the money doesn't matter. Because it is often a prerequisite for doing something, for having a financing behind it. What is now quite depressing is that the government seems to think that just making some money solves the problems by itself. That is why I would like to hear from you when I ask specifically what you intend to do, what it could be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152043	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152045	Thank you. First of all, it is regrettable if the chairman of the Danish People's Party has the impression that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party makes agreements where we spend money on nothing. We talked about loneliness last week, and the funds allocated must of course go to concrete actions, including local partnerships, and we talked about the value of local and national. It is similar when we have jointly allocated 117 million. kr. It is a matter of legal certainty, namely that they are going to something concrete. One of the specific things I did not manage to mention in my initial answer is a legal certainty study of the areas where municipalities have the greatest difficulty in complying with the legislation, because then we will have a knowledge of whether we need to change legislation or that is another thing that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152126	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152127	Well, that's just another word. There has been mention of an action plan, a service review and now also a study on legal certainty. After all, no disabled people in the country feel better. We could use 117 million. kr., and we can also use 0.25 billion. kr. That's fine; we're in. The problem here is that it is only money and action plans and airy thoughts. So does the Minister not have just one concrete proposal on what could do better for disabled people in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152156	Well, excuse me, I think it is sensible and practical, in all modesty, when, together with a broad circle of parties, including the author's own party, I have made an agreement that means that today we have put forward a legislative proposal which means that the municipalities must, of course, what matters to the citizens, be that they should not complain about getting the right decision, but that there is a sufficient quality in the municipal proceedings so that they get the right help for the first time. Here I will throw in all my focus; that is what we must be able to as a welfare society. One can then disagree and think that we should use the funds to build up some major penal system when things have gone wrong. I believe that we must succeed in providing the citizens with the right help for the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152235	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152236	I have no doubt about that at all. The problem here is that the Minister obviously has no ideas at all. So, these are action plans and studies, and I do not know what, in the municipalities, so that the municipalities can bring something to the minister, and then the minister can say that we do so. When I went into politics, it was because I wanted something, and I also had some pretty concrete ideas about what I wanted and how I would do it. The minister just wants to set aside some money so that an investigation can be carried out, and then she probably means what the conclusions of the study say. There is nothing else to say about that except that it is deeply unambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152302	I am sorry that there is so little respect for the importance of the agreements that are being concluded, including the questioner's own party, because it means something that we go very close to the municipalities and the areas where they make mistakes in their procedures, because those who pay the price for mistakes are the citizens. In addition, I believe that we must also proceed more structurally and ensure that there is the right knowledge. The questioner is quite right in saying that there are some citizens here who have very rare and complex issues or functional reductions that make it necessary to ensure that the municipalities have the right knowledge. I look forward to negotiating perhaps not with the author himself, but with a rapporteur from the author's party later this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152340	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt and the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly. The next question is for the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply. Do we have a questioner? No, then we move on to the next question, which is to the Minister for Health, and that is what Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152453	Please answer the question aloud.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152456	Thank you. Does the Minister still believe that the country's emergency receptions are flooded with young people with alcohol poisoning every weekend, even though that claim has been contradicted by the hospitals themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152506	Thank you very much for the question, I am glad that I too have the opportunity in this Chamber to say quite clearly that I used the word flood, and I regret that. That was a wrong word, so I'm sorry I used that word in a debate, or was it at a press conference on this health reform? I fully support our proposal, of course, but floods are not the right word. Of course, our hospitals can handle it, and if you look at the number, what's the number? The figure is, and they have been obtained from the Danish Health Data Protection Agency, that 2,000 young people are in contact with the hospital each year because of acute alcohol abuse or alcohol poisoning. Of course our hospitals have to deal with it. We still have to ask ourselves whether 2 000 is something we should be satisfied with. I do not think it is. I still believe that this figure is too high, that is, where the doctor who looks after the young person is concerned about the health of the young person, and we know that a large intake of alcohol can lead to difficulty in breathing, even more seriously. We also know that it is fortunately a few of the young people who drink who go to the hospital because of alcohol. But high alcohol consumption, especially for a young audience, also has other consequences. Young people are particularly vulnerable to the harmful effects of alcohol. We know that young people's brains, which are still being developed, are particularly affected by alcohol in large quantities and that this may have consequences for, for example, alcohol. learning, memory for impulse control. It is clear from the Danish Health Authority's recommendation that young people under the age of 18 drink alcohol. And, unfortunately, Danish young people have a European record in drinking. We can hear from Children's Terms that children as young as 13-14 years call in because they feel pressured to drink, and we know that 30%. Drinks more than they really want. That is why this is the reason for our proposal. But the very word was wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152714	Thank you, and I am glad that the Minister is correcting, let us call it a mistake. You could also call it an untruth if you have to be a little rude about it. For that was actually a statement that the Minister held on for nine days, and then on Friday it was admitted that this is not the case. It was a mistake, a regrettable mistake, you might call it. It happened to coincide with the fact that I submitted my written question on the subject and then the Minister came out. I don't know if there's a connection. If there is, I would always like to be available to government ministers when you say something that turns out not to be true to the facts. Then you can always call me and I'll be happy to help you. And now that we are in the drinking habits of young people and the government's proposal to ban the sale of alcohol to 17-year-olds, and indeed, de facto, we must also ban beer at high school parties, because that would also be a consequence of that, I would say that I think this is a bad way of conducting politics. I think there is a tendency on the part of the government to encourage young people, even if young people today actually drink a little historically. In other words, they are significantly more responsible when it comes to health habits when it comes to alcohol consumption and when it comes to smoking than older generations are. We know who has the biggest problem: it is really the Minister's generation, the minister's core voters, that is to say, it is Arne as the archetype. He's the one with the big problems with alcohol and smoking. But he can vote for parliamentary elections. He is a socialist at the heart, so his freedom will not be taken away from him. But one would like to say to young people who cannot vote against this proposal that they cannot vote for the Folketing that they should just have taken away their freedom. And Arne likes that kind of thing; Arne does not suffer. So I would just like to hear now that I have the Minister: does the Minister not find it problematic to conduct politics in a way that can be pandered to some core voters where the problem may be great, and then you can go in and take some action against some people who cannot say anything at all democratically?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152908	No, I don't think so. We now have age limits, but it may be thought that this is wrong at the Liberal Alliance. After all, we have an age limit of 16 years today, and then we also have an 18-year-old if you are going to buy alcohol. So these are the age limits that we have today, which also regulate both under 18 years and then the 18-year limit. We will then harmonize and say that you must have the same age limit of 18 years. So, no, I do not think that is actually a democratic problem. But will the Liberal Alliance completely remove the age limits we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152939	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330152939-2	I think there is a challenge in this and it is something that generally characterizes the government: there is a slight tendency for the end to justify the means. Here the goal is for young people to drink less, and then you come out with this claim that the emergency units are flooded by young people compared to drinking. That did not prove to be true, but I guess you're still holding back from politics. And that relationship with the truth has been a little problematic in general for the government. In other words, it was claimed that the health authorities recommended a decline of Denmark. It turned out to be wrong. But claimed that SSI recommended knocking down every mink. It turned out to be wrong. But every time it turns out that you have spoken falsely or mistakenly, you do not correct your policy. So now that we know that the problem has been exaggerated in relation to emergency reception, why not correct and say: okay, we can see that there is a historically responsible generation and there is no need to extend the bans?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153024	The figure I have just read out here is the figure we have from the Danish Health Data Protection Agency, i.e. 2,000 young people a year are associated with alcohol consumption in our hospital with alcohol poisoning and more. Denmark, and it is documentable, has a European record in drinking. And then we also have these age limits today, and we can see that when it was introduced, and it was back in the 90s, where you made this 15-year limit, and some years later you moved it up to 16 years, it actually had a great effect. So it has a big effect to get these age limits. And Denmark is also alone, not entirely, but almost alone in Europe, compared to having a very low age limit and an early age for debut.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153102	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153103	Do I have an extra question? Well, well, well. Well, then I'll have to think of something. I didn't have that prepared at all, but it's nice. It is the innovation power that is taking place. Then I would actually like to ask in general terms and in principle. I actually think we have a wish that we want young people to become adults who can make good decisions for their own lives. And the vast majority of people can handle drinking and also drink a little close on weekends as a young person, without having a big drinking problem afterwards. Doesn't the Minister find it problematic that we should cut everyone off and say that a carpenter's apprentice shouldn't go in and buy a beer on a Friday afternoon for the evening if he is 17, because there are a few who can't control it? Isn't that a problem for the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153143	I just want to say that we have a social problem here. We have a European record in the drinking of very young people, and we now have the Health Authority's clear recommendation that it has serious health consequences, precisely because the brain is not fully developed in these years. And I think we should listen to that, and that is why it is our proposal that we say: we have some rules today in relation to age limits, and we have to push the 16-year-old up to 18 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153214	And then there are no further follow-up questions. Thank you to the Minister for Health and thank you to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. The next question is to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. And that's what Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153230	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153236	Thank you, President. Does the Minister consider that the number of tail-up pigs in Denmark is at an acceptable level for an animal-friendly government?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153248	Well, first of all, thank you very much, sir. Torsten Gejl for the question. And thank you for focusing on this important issue of animal welfare, which is something that we really care about in the government. Let me make it clear that I believe that the proportion of tail-uppered pigs in Denmark is a problem I am aware of, and the Ministry of Food is working to get something done about it. So that is not good enough as it is at present. Since 1994 it has been routinely prohibited to haul pigs in the EU. However, pigs still have to be hauled in some cases to avoid tail bites. It is therefore also a matter of animal welfare. A number of initiatives have been taken in recent years to reduce the number of tail-up pigs. Documentation requirements have been established, a control campaign has been carried out, a state animal welfare mark has been established, and there is a continuous dialogue with the profession and with the veterinarians. However, there is a need for sustained action in this area, which is why the Ministry of Food is constantly considering the need for new measures to reduce the share of tail-up pigs. This is done on the basis of new knowledge and experience in the field. The Ministry of Food will also provide an overview of the impact of the new measures already taken. The Danish Food Authority is examining the possibility of a counting method that can give a true picture of the development in the production of pigs with whole tails in Denmark. At the same time, the Ministry will examine the possibility of improving the welfare of the pigs that will end up being tailed. The Ministry is therefore in full swing to look at this problem, and in the future we must be no more familiar. Thank you for the floor and thank you for the question put by Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153437	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153438	You're welcome. Well, the reason I'm asking about tailing of piglets today is that 98.5%. by Danish pigs according to the Animal Protection figures for 2017, the tails are cut off. It is surely to feel the conventional pigs and not the organic pigs or the open-air pigs, where you see significantly fewer tail bites. After all, tail-upping is about cutting the tail off newborn pigs when they are between 2 and 4 days old. It is done to prevent pigs from biting tails off each other later in life due to lack of space and activity opportunities. In the Danish pig industry it is allowed that a pig of as much as 110 kg lives at 0.65 m 2 In addition, pigs are intelligent animals with cognitive abilities as a 3-year-old child and therefore need stimulant. The employment offered often takes the form of a stick strapped to the wall, which they can bite in while standing on a concrete floor. Lack of space and lack of activity mean that they bite their tails off if it is not cut off while the pigs are small. However, this poses a very major welfare problem, as the EU expert body EFSA, which consists of researchers, considers that the intact tail of pigs is the best welfare indicator available. So, the fact that the pigs have a tail is the greatest indicator that they are well and we cut it off. Against this background, my question is this: does the Minister think that it is okay for Danish pigs to be distracted to a degree, so they will bite their tail off if we do not cut it off in advance? Or does the Minister think that we should have a real ban on tailings in Denmark, just as they do in Sweden, and that, at the same time, we should make demands on the surroundings, as in Sweden, so that the pigs actually get the space they need?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153626	Well, actually, I totally agree with sir. Torsten Gejl in that the fact that you can see the pig's tail, as the questioner says, is a really nice welfare indicator. We all love to see this curl on the tail of a pig, because then we know it's okay. But the issue of imposing a ban, in which we must not do so in any case, will put us in a situation where, for the sake of the pigs themselves, we cannot overwhelm, in order to prevent them from biting each other. That is why it is a balance. Therefore we look into it; we want to do more than we do now. But to do what you do in Sweden, I am not sure is the right solution in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153702	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153703	Unfortunately, according to Animal Protection, Denmark has Europe's lowest common denominator for the welfare of pigs when it comes to space and recreation, and this means that we are helping to create a market where other countries have to relax their space requirements in order to keep up with us on the price. According to Animal Protection, Austria has also considered lowering their space requirements so that they correspond to the Danish ones. Denmark is therefore helping to exacerbate animal welfare in the European Union. What does the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries think about the fact that we in Denmark are even at the forefront of reducing animal welfare in the EU and thus becoming a pioneer country for poor animal welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153738	This isn't a picture I recognize. I experience very good animal welfare, also in the pig sector, in Danish stables, and there are also examples of Denmark taking the lead, among others. in relation to the free-range organic pigs which really have good animal welfare. There are places where it can get better. We need to be more ambitious on animal welfare, and the government wants to lead this, but the very gloomy picture, as Mr. Torsten Gejl draws, I don't recognize.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153808	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153810	Well, we must then spend time documenting it and making it clearer to the Minister that it has actually been taken from reports. I'd like to check them and forward the information. As I have said, the European Commission expressed strong criticism of Denmark, as it seemed that routine exemptions were granted for tail-up operations. When it's over 90 percent, it might seem like it's routine, which is illegal. What is the Minister's view of the current risk that the European Commission will open a genuine case of breaches of EU law in the light of the number of tail-uppings? As the Minister says, the problem has been going on for a long time. It's been going on for 25 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153845	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153846	I would like to say that my clear impression is that Denmark, in the context of the European Union, is regarded as one of the pioneer countries, and we, together with the countries of the Vught Alliance, have launched a position paper in which we propose to promote animal welfare. So in the contexts where we debate animal welfare, Denmark stands as one of the countries that will do the most and which is most ambitious. I haven't heard anything about the opening of a tail-up case. I do not think that this is something that is very realistic, but I agree that there is a challenge here; that there is something we can do better. So I also find that pig farmers themselves are interested in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153925	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. We shall continue with questions to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, and this time it has been asked by Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153934	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153938	Thank you for that, President. What do the Minister think of potential consequences for both Danish and European food supply as a result of the war in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330153950	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Anni Matthiesen for highlighting this very serious and very important problem which it is important for us all to deal with. In these weeks we are experiencing a very scary war in Ukraine, a very violent war and perhaps one of the greatest since World War II. It's very, very scary. We gathered the members of parliament yesterday to hear Ukraine's President, Zelenskyi, make his speech. It was very, very touching, and it was horrifying what he had to tell. In addition to the crisis and what you experience there, which is monstrous, it also has other consequences. This can have consequences for the whole of Europe, and this applies, among other things, to the whole of Europe. the food sector. First of all, it is the government's main focus to provide emergency aid to the Ukrainian people and the many refugees who are experiencing this brutal Russian invasion. We closely monitor the food supply in Denmark in close contact with the retail trade and the organisations. The situation may change at short notice, so we follow developments very closely. I would also like to mention that on my own initiative I had invited the Nordic head of the World Food Programme to a meeting yesterday to talk about this, so we have the best possible overview. When we look a little further into the past, commercial fertiliser can become a short supply globally, and it can also affect Danish farmers. Last year, in the European Union, we had a trade surplus of 57 billion. euro on food, so we should be assured, but it is essential that the internal market works and irrational national hoarding of cereals and fertilisers in particular must be avoided. Basically, it is important to ensure well-functioning supply chains, and this is a message that I, as Denmark's Minister for Food, have repeated over and over again. It is also worrying about the dependence that we know that many African and Middle Eastern countries have on imports of cereals from Russia and Ukraine, and this will challenge the supply situation in the coming years. This can lead to hunger, poverty, unemployment and secondary conflicts, and we must pay great attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154211	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154213	Thank you, and thank you for your answer. Yes, I fully agree with the Minister that the war in Ukraine is disgusting in every way possible and affects various areas in many ways. And I have to say that I understand that we must, of course, give priority to emergency aid, but it is clear that we will probably not have to look for many months in the future before we can also be concerned about the food situation, at least in the world. I know that we must first of all get to grips with the situation both in Denmark and at EU level, but it is clear that with the imbalance created by the war and because we also know that the largest grain chambers are located in these war-torn areas, there is a danger that food security will also play an extremely negative role in developing countries. What I would like to ask here in the next question is whether the Minister for Food has any concerns at both Danish and European level about providing sufficient food in the future. So, is there anything that makes the Minister of Food think: here perhaps I have a particular concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154343	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154344	In other words, the situation is very serious, and in this context, of course, we are all concerned. As far as food safety is concerned, our best assessment is with what we know now, and with what we can see in that we will not as such lack food, but we will see drastic price increases. I think many Danes are already experiencing a shock down in the supermarket. I saw the other day that a toast bread had reached over 20 kr., and then you get long in the face almost as long in the face as when you've been down and tanked gasoline, which is also expensive. So there are some really scary prices as a result of this, but compared to what they are experiencing in Ukraine, that's not the big problem. But it is serious enough and we must do what we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154430	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154431	This may not come as a surprise to the Minister for Food, and I am also aware that Denmark, to put it bluntly, may have one of the world's best kitchen gardens in terms of producing food. Danish agriculture is, of course, in this world-class area, and I am thinking a little of it: is it also necessary for us to think about new ideas in this area, i.e. in the field of Danish agriculture, and is it something that the Minister has addressed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154508	As part of my efforts in this area, I have held ongoing meetings with Agriculture & Food and other stakeholders in this field. One of the things that may be of interest is whether we can grow more food in Denmark. There has been the whole EU debate on the inclusion of set-aside. There has also been a question of whether you can take some of the plans that are to take out more brackish and perhaps postpone them a little. We have a dialogue in the rapporteur's circle on how to deal with this, because we want to ensure that we do not find ourselves in a situation where we are going to lack food.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154543	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154545	Well, it makes me feel safe to have the dialogue, and I am also aware of that. And there are times when you can say that if you have to find anything positive about a war, sometimes you are also forced to think new thoughts and think differently than you may have done for many years. Finally, I would like to hear the Minister's assessment of the situation we are looking at, in other words, as regards food supply. So, to what extent does the Minister expect food supply to be a challenge? I have heard something like this in relation to Denmark and Europe, but if the Minister is going to take the world glasses, what is the Minister thinking?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154628	The minister for the last answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154630	Yes, in relation to Denmark and Europe, the price increases are what we are looking at. In relation to developing countries, for example: In North Africa, there may be quite significant supply problems. There's something you need to be aware of. I spoke to the World Food Programme yesterday, and what they are saying is that, as such, it is not so much food that they lack, but that it is the distribution of the food that may be the problem. And there is, of course, a very scary trend worldwide for a lot of food waste. In fact, there are one third of the food being produced that is being thrown out. So there is also an improvement potential there all around in terms of reducing food waste; it also has a climate and environmental impact that is problematic. But it is also about the distribution of resources and ensuring that those people in developing countries also get some of this food. And then, of course, we need to look at our supply chains... what can we do to produce some more of what we're going to be missing so we don't have a shortage?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154733	Then we thank the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries for today's work. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 9, which is addressed to the Minister for Gender Equality, and the questioner is Mrs Pernille Skipper of the Enhedslisten, De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154748	In consultation with the Minister for Justice and Social Affairs, the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Social Affairs have said that they want to finance a future action plan against partner violence and partner killings with funds from the so-called social reserve, these funds are never lasting but run for a maximum of three years at a time, does the Minister believe that a future action plan against partner violence and partner killings should be temporary, and what ideas does the Minister have about the content of such a plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154814	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154815	Partner violence and partner killing are unacceptable, and we need to see it as a social problem if we are to get rid of it. I also believe that we need to change structures in order to change the culture that is obviously needed to change. I am already in the process of having meetings with relevant actors to get their input, and I also plan that, together with the Equal Opportunities Committee, I can get concrete inspiration by going on a study trip to Norway sometime in May. Therefore, I cannot yet say exactly what the content of the action plan will be, but my ambition is that we will have a look at both structural measures and concrete actions aimed at the women, men and their children at violence. We must also take action against the perpetrators of violence, so that the cycle of violence is stopped. There have been action plans against partner violence since 2002, and they have typically been funded through what was formerly the rate pool for periods of four years. However, the government has not yet decided how a new action plan will have to be financed. I am pleased that there is interest on the part of the Danish Parliament in the preparation of a new action plan against partner violence and partner killings, and I hope that together we can carry out the task. It is a task that it is incredibly important that we stand together to promise if we are to change the structural problem that it is and view it as a social problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154948	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330154949	I think the glass is half full. I am glad that the government has not yet decided how it should be financed. In other words, partner violence increases the risk of partner killing, which is why you cannot see the action on partner violence and partner killing separately, and I really do not think that I need to lecture the Minister at all. Nor do I need to stress how important it is for us to make some kind of preventive action. I also very much agree with the Minister that it is both structural and cultural and that these things are connected. Although I have not yet heard from all stakeholders, however, I have an idea of what such a plan of action could contain, because I have heard what many have said, and I know that the Minister also has. In other words, there is an increased need for tracing and for violence in the individual municipality, for example. that you have teams that are able to help identify victims of violence and thus also to actively assist them. There is a very, very large unfulfilled need for outpatient counselling, where you don't have to stand with the bag and children under the arm of a shelter, but actually can get help to get out of the circle of violence before that. As the Minister also mentions, there is a need for the treatment of practitioners and there is a need for a priority for the police. And all this doesn't end in three years, and that's why it's so worrying when we talk about this funding that's been spent over and over again. And that's been the problem for a long time. It's stop and go, stop and go, and that's not gonna work properly. After all, when she stepped in, the Minister for Gender Equality was talking about a plan of action against partner killing very early and very bastant. I think that a great many people are concerned about what was very impressed by the way in which the Minister came into being, also by taking a few words in his mouth, which I do not think ministers have done before, namely that this is a question of women being killed because they are women. And that is why it is so important that this is followed by real action and lasting action, that is, something that can take a few years. It takes more than 3 years, unfortunately, to get rid of both partner violence and partner killings.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155200	Thank you to the Enhedslisten for being agenda-setting in this area, for for which I am very much indebted to Enhedslisten. I think it's important that we start this time with the content and start by saying: what are the right bets? And it is true that there is both something about the offers, and there is also some legislation that deals with the consequences to the perpetrators of the violence, and there is something about the children who get into trouble, where it can be incredibly difficult for the victim to have the children afterwards. So there are many elements in this, and I think the important thing in the phase we are in now is to get all good kicks in and get a proper action plan made and thus also push for us to do something else than we have done before, where we have jumped from one tub to the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155302	Again, the glass is half full. If we have to do something different than we have done before, where we have jumped from one to the other, then it is a step forward. I'm gonna take that down and stop the minister. There's no doubt that this jump from finance to finance doesn't do enough. The long-term efforts are necessary, and we know, of course, that partner violence is passed on both from practicing to practicing, but it is also passed on from victim to victim. There are some huge structural problems that it takes many years, perhaps even generations, to get out of. But I get worried when the government says: let's start with the content and then the money comes after. Unfortunately, my experience is that the money just doesn't show up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155345	In fact, I sincerely believe that the right thing to do is to start by asking what it takes and what its content should be, and then ask what that content costs. I think that is the right order to do that, and I also think that the right thing to do is not only look at the things that cost money, but also look at the things that I know are very important for the women who are in crisis centres and where it is a struggle between systems for children, for example, or where the speed is not high enough to clarify, for example, children.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155421	The questioner's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155423	This whole thing with rights of association and custody is a whole question-making exercise for itself. It can also be said that a problem for women in crisis centres is that they are at the crisis centre at all that it has come there. And by the way, if they do not have a job, they are still dependent on their husband's income and cannot get their own cash benefits. It costs something to do about it, and that is why I am a little worried about whether this work will then be limited by the fact that it cannot cost money. So can the Minister promise that we'll figure out what it takes, and then we'll find the money? Or will the catalogue of ideas be limited by what resources are available and that funds have not yet been found?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155502	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155504	I believe, as I said before, that the order in which it is to be done is that we start by inviting all actors in, so that we get all good kicks in. Of course, I cannot stand here today and say that all the input that may come will be included in the action plan. But what I can say very clearly is that we are listening to all the initiatives that may be, and I have a sincere wish, and I share that with the government, to make a good and proper action plan and also an action plan that goes beyond the action plans we have had in the past. Because we need to see this as a social problem and address it as a social problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155542	Thank you to the Minister for today's work and also to the questioner, Mrs Pernille Skipper, for today's question. To our listeners, what you are seeing at the moment is the kind of Wednesday activity we have that starts at 1 p.m. 1 p.m. and all the members of the Folketing may put questions to all the ministers who are available. All you have to do is send me a question on Friday by 2:00 a.m. 12.00. Then they have the chance to toast a minister here with three or four questions. It then takes place in turn, depending on the order of ministers we have. The next question we are about to get to is Question No. 10, and it's for the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration, and he's sitting over here. And the questioner is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155626	He's standing here, and he's reading his question now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155629	Thank you, President. Why does the government not live up to its promises to ban donations from named Muslim countries to mosques in this country, so that money is not given for Islamic radicalisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155641	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155643	Thank you for the question. Last year, a broad majority in the Folketing introduced an arrangement which allows natural or legal persons to be included in a list of prohibitions under conditions where they oppose or undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights. Under the scheme, donations above a certain size are prohibited from persons on the prohibition list. In this context, legal persons include foreign government authorities and government-controlled organisations and companies. The first person is now on the banning list, and I am pleased that we have now used this tool. It is an important task to counter the fact that people who undermine democracy and fundamental freedoms and human rights can exert influence in Danish society, whether they are natural persons or legal persons, including among others. foreign government authorities. Of course, I do not think that with the first decision on inclusion in the list of prohibitions we are in a position to achieve our goal, far from it. It's just a step on the way. The scheme is arranged in such a way that the Minister decides on inclusion in the list on the basis of a recommendation from the Foreigners' Board, and I expect to receive new settings on an ongoing basis so that the list of time will be expanded. I therefore do not entirely agree with the questioner that the government does not honour its promises. But that does not mean that we are in the finish line. We have established the legal basis and have now got the first one on the list. So, on the contrary, I think we are in the process. I will, of course, follow the way the system works and we have also agreed that the law will be evaluated in 2023, i.e. next year, and if it turns out that it does not work as intended, we will have to look at how we can improve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330155825	Thank you, President. Allow me to remind the Minister of what was written in the proposal that was called realistic and fair or vice versa. But there is at least the following, and I quote: the Social Democrats want a complete stop to foreign funding of religions in Denmark from states that do not themselves respect and practise freedom of religion. In practice, it will not be possible, as a religious community in Denmark, to receive a donation of money, regardless of its size, if it comes from a country that does not know&#x2; recognizes and works against fundamental freedoms as freedom of religion. ▪ The fg. President-in-Office of the Council). No, I'm not done. I've only spent 30 seconds. That fg. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Thank you, President. I think that most people, including myself and others in the Danish People's Party, had the expectation that it would also mean that this banning list would contain countries, perhaps even larger organisations, etc. And what I can understand, now on the threshold of celebrating your three-year birthday as a government, is one named Iraqi. It is, of course, always a question of how quickly we think things should go, and it may also be that the Minister has an ambition that this should first be on the other side of two or three parliamentary elections; but there I think there are just many voters out there who took a different view when the Social Democratic Party wrote that it was named states, named countries that would be blocked. It could, for example, be done. Be Qatar or Iran or Saudi Arabia countries that actually live up to what the Social Democratic Party actually wrote here, namely that they do not recognise fundamental freedoms as religious freedom, and therefore it is to be expected that the money that is being sent into Denmark to Danish mosques, Koran schools and what do we have? So when, if at all, does the Minister have a plan that what was promised before the elections will also become a reality? Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160023	At any rate, it should not be about 2-3 parliamentary elections, because then it is close to non-essential. First, a political agreement has been reached; then a new law has been passed; then it has been put into administration; and now the law is also in operation. I have the expectation that, when we meet in 2023, then the parties behind the legislation, including the author's own party, to evaluate the law, we can look at a proper list. The second list we have, on the preachers of hatred, is now up to 22 names, and after all it has worked for a number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160056	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160057	Yes, and I understand that it does not work as intended, but we will take it in another Question Time. So, the Minister does not think it is a little unambitious: one Iraqi. I do not assume that it is the Iraqi who personifies the whole of Iraq. I mean, what about just moving? What about e.g. Hamas, Muslim brotherhood, Hezbollah, ISIS and anything else from Islamist Slaraffenland? Well, there's plenty to take off. Why aren't they on such a list?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160132	Of course, we can discuss whether we should have waited to put the list into operation until there was a long list. I myself thought that as soon as the first one came on the list, it was all about including him in the list of prohibitions that we have. When the questioner says 'countries', perhaps I also think that we need a slightly more precise definition of it, because it is not our opinion that, just because you live in Kuwait, you cannot introduce an economy into Danish society if you are not anti-democratic in any way. So it has to be a specific legal person, and it may well be a government authority, but it can't just be because a person is physically staying on a particular territory that it must then be prohibited to transfer money to the Danish community from that territory. It would also not be good for Danish business and ordinary international relations with people living in other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160219	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160220	But that's what they wrote. So, now I quote what I have quoted, for the sake of simplicity: in practice, it will not be possible as a religious community in Denmark to receive a donation of money, regardless of its size, if it comes from a country that does not recognise and opposes fundamental freedoms as freedom of religion. From a country it cannot be understood in any other way than that it is donations from a country, from a state.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160249	There is one place in it that the questioner reads out where we have moved, that is, where the amount is written off, because we have made a de minimis limit of DKK 10,000, so it is possible to transfer a small amount. Having said from a country, it is not, in view of the fact that a normal person • Mr. Muhammad of Kuwait, who knows a person in Denmark, is not allowed to transfer money. It is with a view to ensuring that certain organisations, state authorities, individuals, i.e. legally defined persons, cannot do so, and that is also how the legislation is built up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160320	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt for today's questions, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration for this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160335	Thank you, President. Does the Minister consider it reasonable that a young, well-integrated woman should be expelled to Afghanistan after 8 years in Denmark, as described in the article "In shock of expulsion: Exported from 2.g to the Taliban regime on Sn.dk on 23 March 2022?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160358	Thank you for the question. I have, of course, also printed out the article myself and read it, but although I have read it and, like all other people, of course, I have taken a position on what is stated in the article, the answer is probably a little more boring, namely that the present government, like previous governments, complies with an arm's length principle, which among other things. That means that as a minister I cannot, must or will not interfere in the administration's proceedings or decision. It is the Foreigners' Board and then, if applicable, the Independent Body of the Refugee Board, which makes decisions on asylum cases, and thus it is also the Foreigners' Board and ultimately the Refugee Board that decides whether a person has a need for protection or whether, as a result of our international obligations, the person should be allowed to have his or her residence permit extended in Denmark and stay here. So there is always a concrete and individual assessment in each case, but in general I can say that I am confident that the authorities will take decisions in accordance with our legislation and with the conventions and human rights that we have acceded to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160508	But it is precisely when, as politicians, we meet people out in reality who are experiencing the legislation we are making. After all, we are making legislation for people out in the real world. So when we meet the people and meet someone like Usna, who is fully integrated, speaks Danish, who does not speak the main language in Afghanistan, who, if she is sent back, will certainly not be able to go to school, but must be walled behind four walls of her own home, does not have the same opportunities there as she has here, it is just that we in the Radical Left at least wonder that when the UN Refugee Organisation, UNCR, in February, very clearly advises against the fact that people from Afghanistan are being denied the present time, why it is that the government maintains that practice. What impression does that make on the Minister at all? And why is it that Denmark does not listen to the UN?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160607	Let me start by saying that the Danish Government has not recognised the Taliban as a government in Kabul and we have no extradition agreement with the current regime in Afghanistan. And I am very much in favour of meeting specific people and, on the basis of them and their stories, understanding how the legislation works. But I have never met, let us say, a woman who thinks she has been raped and in a court of law has not been upheld and the defendant has been acquitted, after which I have raised a single case in the Chamber, because I do not think the right way to do so. There we have to trust what the judges are doing, whether in the court of the city, in the court of the country or in the Refugee Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160656	Now the matter is not finally settled either. But everything suggests that Usna's stay in Denmark hangs in a very thin thread. I am unspeakably concerned that we in Denmark seem to have a different view of Afghan refugees than the rest of the European Union. And let me just stay with some numbers here. It is not news that it is extremely difficult for Afghans to obtain asylum in Denmark. It's been like this for years. For example: in 2019 it was seen that, on average, about half, 54 per cent of all Afghans were granted asylum in the EU, while in Denmark only a good one in four received protection. Do not worry the Minister that we seem to have a much more restrictive practice than, for example, we do? Our neighbours in Germany and Sweden?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160737	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160738	In other words, it is the same refugee convention and the same European Convention on Human Rights that our legislation is modelled on. But I know that the rates of recognition are closely linked to the composition of the group seeking asylum, for example. how many unaccompanied minors from the countries seeking asylum. And I do not know whether the group of Afghans in the Danish asylum system has been different from it has been in the German asylum system. However, a recognition rate of 54 is not so much different from what we see for other nationalities. It's actually pretty average.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160815	Ask the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160816	As I understand it, and as the Minister also says, it is true that we do not have a repatriation agreement fortunately, I would say with the Taliban. And that also means that Afghans who are denied asylum can look forward to staying at the exit centre indefinitely. And that is perhaps where Usna is going instead of in dental training. Is that correct? And is the government planning to make an agreement with the Taliban regime, since it appears that it makes sense to send Usna and her family to an exit center?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160847	Before concluding on the specific issue, I think it is sensible to wait for the Refugee Board. At any rate, I have been standing here countless times and discussing Wednesday issues following on from specific cases where it can be seen that the Refugee Board has subsequently reversed the decision it has all been about. In any case, however, it does not change the fact that we will not enter into extradition agreements with regimes that we do not recognise as valid governments. It has nothing to do with whether or not we like the policy they are pursuing. It has something to do with whether we recognise them in foreign policy and we do not recognise the Assad Government in Syria, nor do we recognise the Taliban as a government in Afghanistan. But there are other villains we recognize, for example. the Iranian Government, with which we know God do not share many political values, but we recognise them as a government in Iran.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330160935	Thank you to Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday for the questions, and thank you to the Minister for the answers. And if it had been a tough foreman who had been sitting here, then you should not summon higher powers, and some believe that by God means that. Well, that was a detail. We move on to the next question, which is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and the question has been asked by Mr Gundelach. Sikandar Siddique from the Free Greens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161003	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161004	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the Minister for coming. The question is: does the Minister agree with the Foreign Affairs Agency that Usna Mohammed Latif should be deported to Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161024	As I briefly mentioned to Mrs Kathrine Olladag, who asked the question just now, I have read this article before the replies today in shock of expulsion: expelled from 2nd g to the Taliban regime, and, like anyone else who reads that article, of course I have taken a position on it. However, I would like to repeat what was my point on the issue just now, namely that I cannot, must or will not interfere in the decisions of the authorities, in their work. As I said before to the previous questioner, this is due to the fact that the government, like previous governments, adheres to a principle of arm's length taxation. It is therefore the authority and then, if appropriate, the independent Refugee Board that decides on asylum cases. Thus it is also the Foreigners' Board and ultimately the Refugee Board that decides whether a person has a need for protection or whether the person has a need for protection as a result of Denmark's international obligations. on the UN Convention on Refugees and the European Convention on Human Rights should be allowed to remain in Denmark. A specific and individual assessment is always carried out in each case. However, I can say in general terms that I am confident that the immigration authorities are able to take these decisions in accordance with the conventions that we have signed and with the legislation that has been adopted in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161147	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161148	That is precisely the point: you are confident that the Foreigners' Board can take decisions on the basis of the legislation that has been adopted, the politically determined legislation. And that is why it is quite fair and legitimate to ask the Minister what the Minister thinks of these assessments. Because it is politically determined legislation that they make decisions on the basis of. So we are talking here about a young woman who has lived in Denmark since she was 10 years old 10 years old. Usna is 18 years old now. If you look at the reactions that have come from demonstrations and the reactions that have come from her classmates, from high schools and schools and all sorts of places, there is no indication that Usna is not well integrated, that Usna has not lived her adult life, her young life here in Denmark. And I just have to ask the Minister: will the Minister not explain to me who it would do well to send back to Afghanistan 18-year-old Usna, who has lived in Denmark since she was 10 years old?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161305	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161306	I would like to say two things. Paragraph 1: As I also said to the questioner just now, I have been standing here quite a few times and discussing a Wednesday afternoon on the basis of specific individual cases which have not yet been settled and where it has subsequently emerged that the Refugee Board has taken a different decision from that taken at first instance. So it is also just an appeal not to conclude until a final decision has been taken. And paragraph 2: I think it makes sense that Danish immigration legislation is modelled on the UN Refugee Convention and the European Convention on Human Rights, and it is with the background of the rules that we have agreed to internationally, and the case law that has developed internationally, that Danish immigration legislation has been tightened up. In any case, it should not be a great surprise to the questioner that this is the basis of Danish legislation on foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161359	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161400	But, Minister, it is six months since we fled Afghanistan. There was a withdrawal from Afghanistan, we closed our embassies, we made sure to get our employees out because we thought it was unsafe. That was six months ago. Six months later, we decide that it is safe for 18-year-old Usna to return to the Taliban. The minister must be able to see that something is going wrong here. We're evacuating embassies, we're fleeing Afghanistan, we're getting our employees to safety, and six months later we're saying that for you, Usna, 18 years old, it's safe to get down to the Taliban.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161506	Once again, we should be careful to conclude too hard before a final decision has been taken. I would also like to say that one of the most important things in our Danish asylum policy is that individual assessments are made. That is why it may well be that an interpreter, for example: has worked for the Danish forces, gets asylum in Denmark because we consider that he is exposed because the Taliban knows that he has worked for Western forces, while another person does not receive asylum in Denmark because we do not consider that person to be individually persecuted. The law of aliens is not linked up in such a way that, simply because you come from a particular country, you either need protection or do not need protection, and you can easily have protection in Denmark, even if you come from a completely peaceful country, if that country, for example. has completely insane legislation against homosexuals or against Jews or Christian minorities or other things, and that is because it is an individual assessment. Therefore, I would just like to appeal that, although the Taliban took over power in Kabul this summer, this does not mean that everyone who comes from Afghanistan per year. definition needs protection. There is an enormously serious humanitarian situation developing in Afghanistan, but the individual need for protection linked to the individual needs of the individual needs of the individual needs of the individual needs must be dealt with individually.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161617	The questioner for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161618	We are politicians and we have opinions and we have opinions, and I know that the Minister often says that he will not comment on specific matters. But now I ask the Minister directly. 18-year-old Usna has lived in Denmark since she was 10 years old, speaks the language fluently, goes to high school and has dreams. Does the Minister really think it makes sense to send back 18-year-old Usna? I hope that the Minister will not respond with a lot of arguments in relation to an arm's length principle, but I am asking about the Minister's position, because the Minister is also a politician, the Minister is elected by the people. Does the Minister think that 18-year-old Usna should be sent back to Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161706	Perhaps I just feel that, contrary to the questioner, I do not read an article in the newspaper on three or four pages, and then I have a position on it, as well as I, if I read an interview with a woman who said that she had been raped, then also on the basis of that article would not make a verdict in the Court of Justice. I would then rely on the judge to listen, of course, both to the woman who thinks that she has been raped, but also to the person who has been charged, and to the fact that, on the basis of a general argument and a general legal procedure, it is finally assessed whether or not to give judgment. It is the same judges who sit on the Refugee Board and I will not read an article on 31⁄2 page and then make a decision. That would be the opposite of the rule of law on which this country is based, and the opposite of what I also hope the Free Greens can support. For the alternative, that is, it is the minister in office who has to read the newspapers and find out who needs protection, would be bad, both for refugees and for Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161800	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique for the question, and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration for today's efforts. Then we move on to question 13, and it is to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, and the questioner is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161818	Thank you for that, President. Why does the Minister think that we should simply ignore the Council of Europe's criticism of Danish practice during the municipal elections in November 2021, when politically appointed candidates were pre-arranged?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161832	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330161833	Thank you for the question. I would like to sign for the interest that we have a healthy, strong and solid democracy in our democratic elections, both here in the Folketing, but also, of course, when it comes to ticking on election day. I have already stated in writing that it is my view that the Danish electoral system is functioning and that we must maintain that our elections are conducted transparently and with equal access for all. I believe that the Council of Europe's criticism is unjustified. As I said in my written reply, candidates are not allowed to count their own votes. The criticism is not directed at specific cases either, but at a general practice which the Council of Europe may not be used to. The Danish practice that candidates can take part in the elections on an equal footing with other voters is in my optics the right one for us. It is a strength that the electoral actors participate in the election process because it creates transparency for everyone, both voters and candidates, to be able to participate. And both the count of votes and large parts of the other electoral procedure take place publicly in the sense that everyone can attend it. It gives us a guarantee that everything is going right. Then we should remember that the Council of Europe's overall assessment of local elections is in fact extremely positive. It's not really a big surprise. In fact, Denmark's electoral system is time and again judged to be one of the world's best. But, of course, we need to listen to suggestions about where we can do better. I just think that the criticism should be well-founded in order to make us change our electoral procedure. Indeed, we are in danger of damaging an electoral system that many countries envy us. That is why I do not agree with the proposal to amend it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162004	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162005	In fact, I believe that the Minister and I agree a great deal along the way. I myself have previously been elected in some of the polling stations, and I myself have not personally thought that there was anything wrong with it. Where I still think there is some disagreement, there is where the Minister in writing, also to me, rejects it and does not want to engage in any kind of dialogue or discussion that there may be some possibility of doing better. I am sure that when the Council of Europe points out that they are concerned about the fact that the candidates who have been nominated are also elected, they are in such a way that I think that we must have examined whether there is any reason for this concern. I can hear the Minister say that it is not there, but I would like to ask the Minister why he does not think that we in Denmark should at least discuss it and perhaps find out if there is anything about the criticism they have now raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162128	I think that is what we are doing here in the Chamber today, and this is an important debate which is also being held in the media around us. But my position is just that we have a really healthy democratic culture in Denmark, that we have a government of the people, where our parties are not only • they are just professional machines where people work and do communication and political work in here, but that it is also that you meet in Vipperødhallen and in assembly halls and thousands of other places when there is an election action. Then there will be some from the Left, some from the Social Democratic Party and some from the Radicals and the Enhedslisten, and who else it is, and help to count up votes. And you kind of know who it is. It is, of course, rooted in our people's rule, and I think that is actually more in favour of it being a strong government of the people we have than what is criticised for in this report, namely that it is somehow a weakness of our people's rule. Actually, I think it's the other way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162231	But I also think it is a force, but I would say: I cannot stand here and say with total conviction that I simply do not think there is anything to come for. Or for that matter, it could be that some of what you do, for example. in Norway, which could also be used for Danish purposes, and which might even make it even better. And maybe it's also a bit of a call for you to sometimes even think that this system is amazing and that you're totally comfortable with it trying something else. So sometimes we also have to admit that as politicians we hear about something else, we hear about something new and sometimes we move and say: Well, it could be that there was a small part of the way you like. do it in Norway, which we could also use. Does the Minister not agree with that at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162326	Well, I had the pleasure of being in Oslo for the grand election last autumn and having a tour of their electoral system. And it is certainly also a very good electoral system, I think. It may be a more effective system on some leaders than ours is, but there are also some drawbacks to it. Well, there are ballot papers for each party, where we have a tradition of having a long dining list with all parties.Now a lot of parties come to the next election so that it can reach right down to the floor. So I think the Norwegians have a lot to offer. However, I think that the element for which we are criticised is the fact that there are voluntary grassroots roots from the parties, which help to count not their own party's votes, but the parties of other parties are actually voting more as an advantage; it is not a mistake in our system. But I fully agree that there are plenty of things we can learn, among other things. also by the Norwegians in relation to our electoral system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162423	The questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162424	Now it is the case that we are also sending out some to other countries, such as the electoral system, or at least some who are watching whether the elections are going as they should, and who, for that matter, also sometimes subsequently raises a criticism where there are concerns. What is really going to happen now? In other words, does the Minister just note that the Council of Europe is actually concerned or has expressed concern, or is the Minister going to come to the Council of Europe with an explanation of why there are no plans to do anything about it? Or what happens in a practical way here afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162507	But they do, of course, criticize several aspects of the Danish election, among others. also our party support system and the method of making private contributions. And that is something we are discussing now. There is, of course, such a popular name for it, but that is, the way in which a number of different companies give money to circumvent the limit is something we are discussing, among other things. with the author's party, including how we can stem it and ensure that there is a little bit more openness, at least in relation to that part of it. And there are some things that we are going to change and that we are in the process of changing. However, in relation to the fact that we have voluntary grassroots in the polling stations instead of municipally paid employees, I think it is healthy that we stick to it as long as people want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162545	Thank you to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing and thank you to Mrs Matthiesen. We shall now proceed to Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 14 to the Minister for Education and Research. And the questioner is Mr. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162555	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162556	Thank you. The question is: does the Minister consider it beneficial for companies outside the large cities that DTU will in future train 500 fewer engineers as a result of the government's plans to relocate training?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162611	Thank you for the question to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Let me start by stating that DTU can continue to increase their admissions, but that with the agreement we have demands on how much attention can be paid to DTU's campus in Lyngby. DTU has chosen to relocate 300 seats, and when it's done, DTU can record as many by 2030 as they did in 2019 on their campus in Lyngby • 2019 is the starting year for this deal. Engineers are needed throughout the country, even outside the largest cities. Therefore, the government and the parties to the agreement have also exceptionally chosen to support DTU's plans to relocate to Risø, Kalundborg and Hirtshals by 30 million. kr. These are some plans that I'm really glad DTU will continue to work on and implement. In addition, as a result of the agreement, DTU will receive more money per year. students in the three places each year. When we have the discussion today about DTU's admissions, it is only because DTU has had growth in recordings from 2019 to 2021 on their campus in Lyngby. The increased approach is among other things: a result of an exceptionally high take-up in 2020 where the explanation is likely to be found in the particular situation of the covid-19. The increasing approach is also due to the fact that during the period DTU has admitted several English-language students to the Master's degree programmes. If you want more engineers for the whole of Denmark, several English-speaking students are not necessarily the solution. It is only about half of DTU's graduates who are not Danish nationals who are employed in Denmark after two years, and that is only 6%. of all DTU graduates who find employment west of Storebælt, but we need engineers throughout Denmark. Today we have approx. 2,600 vacant places on engineering courses west of Storebælt, and the government has a wish that more of these places should be filled in in the future. Many companies need graduates with technical skills. I am not of the opinion that, overall, the relocation agreement will mean fewer engineers to Danish companies outside the largest cities. On the contrary, I believe that when training moves closer to companies, different forms of cooperation are created which will allow companies to recruit them more easily. And the agreement is about creating more and better educational opportunities throughout Denmark, not about educating fewer, nor engineers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330162821	Thank you for your answer, and I am, of course, in favour of the fact that the intention of the relocation of education is not to train fewer engineers, but that is the consequence. In other words, what the government is doing is a damaging symbolic policy. It is symbolic because it does not very much benefit the outskirtsdanmark, so to speak, and it is harmful because it leads to fewer engineers, and one cannot really claim that one was not warned in advance. The Engineer's Association warned in September last year that we will be missing 13,000 graduates in engineering, engineering and IT, i.e. the classic STEM programmes, until 2030, and less than a month ago all members of parliament, including the Minister, received a letter from the Danish Occupation, from the Engineering Association, IDA, from the IT industry and the Association of Advisory Engineers, warning that these relocation plans would exacerbate the lack of engineers. So we were clearly warned in the Folketing that this symbolic policy would have harmful consequences, and we knew, so to speak, that the reform would be somewhat sloppy, and yet it is stubbornly held up politically, and that is something that is generally seen in politics. In other words, another area is the reform of the primary school, which was carried out a decade ago, and where all wise people were out to warn and say that this is going to be harmful to the Danish primary school, and one still chooses to continue, and now we have to start to correct and start talking about that we must also have changed in that reform, and that is probably the same thing that will happen with the relocation of these training places. In 10 years we'll see that, well, hell, all those who warned that this was a bad idea were right. Now we have fewer engineers, and now we have to roll it back. Why on earth wait 10 years? Why not listen to the experts and say that okay, we can see that this symbol policy is damaging us in terms of educating engineers in the future, and we'll straighten it out right away?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163003	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163005	After all, I do not agree with the way in which Mr. Alex Vanopslagh puts the text on here. The deal here doesn't lead to fewer engineers. Some special consideration has been given to IT-U when it comes to the part dealing with IT programmes, and with the engineering programmes what I have described here is what I have described. There are plenty of places to be admitted to if you want to study for an engineer. We can easily get more engineering graduates, but it is of course a question of more people applying for those courses, and there is no limitation on that with the agreement here. On the contrary, we should like more to seek them all over the country, so that the industry in Jutland, which does not get the graduates from DTU, can do well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163044	But if we are to strengthen the whole of Denmark, especially what I usually call the concrete Denmark, i.e. Production Denmark, Udkantsdanmark, it is also sometimes called with a touch of condescension, if we are to strengthen it, then it is not the relocation of education that is needed. Well, it's not like they need us to sprinkle some academic study places on top of them. What Produktionsdanmark needs is, first of all, good framework conditions. They are competitive, they have to export to other countries and they need good framework conditions where taxes are not too high and, secondly, they need skilled labour. I don't really think the government is delivering there, and I want to do such a recitation of Zelenskyj on behalf of Udkantsdanmark: We don't need academic study places, we need more engineers and good framework conditions. And wouldn't the Minister recognise that you're focusing on the wrong place when you're looking at how to strengthen Outskirtsdanmark? After all, it is business, framework conditions and skilled labour that are important.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163138	This last one's part of the key, and I remember that mr. Alex Vanopslagh has used the expression The concrete Denmark, and I have actually also noted that it might be appropriate to go into it myself. Because I think it's all wrong and you're on thin ice here. You have exactly the need, close to business, where you are, throughout the country to get trained labour, also close to, so that you can recruit them. In Sønderborg and Als they benefit from training engineers at the University of Southern Denmark in Sønderborg, or in Central Jutland, that you train in Herning, that you train in Aarhus, that you are closer. So we need more people to apply for those courses, but they have to do so all over the country, and what has been called for a discussion here is DTU alone in Lyngby. But at least we need a look for the whole community.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163220	Then there's one last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163221	We need up to 13,000 candidates in the STEM subjects, including engineers. So when DTU trains 500 fewer engineers, we have a problem, and then we end up with my fear, not benefitting those parts of the country that are far away from the big cities. And that makes me think a little bit that the government is good at these communications projects, that is, the relocation of education, or that some health houses are changed and called them near hospitals and hangs up a new sign, but you have not really made any difference, or near police stations that are open for a few hours a week. I would just like to ask: does the Minister not think that in this matter of the relocation of education there is a slight touch of the fact that this is another communication stunt on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163302	No, by no means. This is going to give us more and better educational opportunities throughout Denmark. This will mean that the decline in the number of young people in the coming years, when there will be fewer, will not mean further centralisation and a weakening of opportunities for young people, but, of course, for the companies which Mr. Alex Vanopslagh says he is interested in benefitting all over Denmark. They're gonna benefit from us making a deal like this. And I must also remind you that it is a very, very broad majority, and not just the government, that concludes this agreement and that perhaps it was in fact Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, who was so wrong about not being part of the deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163340	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. We move on to today's final question, which is also to the Minister for Education and Research, and this time the questioner is Mr. Sikandar Siddique from the Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163352	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Minister for coming. I will start by reading the question. A number of Danish universities, including the University of Copenhagen, Aarhus University and DTU, invest in companies that have activities in illegal settlements on the Palestinian West Bank. The UN Security Council Resolution 2334 of December 2016 condemns the Israeli settlements, prohibits all construction activities in the settlements and emphasises that settlements destroy the possibilities of a peaceful two-state solution. What is the Minister's view that Danish universities do not meet their international obligations by investing in companies with activities in illegal settlements on the occupied West Bank?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163453	Thank you for the question. The government's policy is that Israel should cease its settlement policy. The settlements are illegal under international law and go directly against EU policy and UN Security Council Resolution 2334. In addition, the government advises against commitments and activities aimed at strengthening settlements. We are doing this as a consequence of the Israeli settlement policy and in accordance with the proposal for adoption V 30. The government therefore supports the joint EU messages to citizens and businesses in the EU, which aim to raise awareness of the risks associated with a commitment to settlements and which Danish investors must always be aware of. In response to the questions raised by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Question 119 in 2021, the Ministry of Industry stated that the Government is continuously working to strengthen the guiding approach towards private and public investors based on the UN Guidelines on Human Rights and Business and OECD Guidelines on Multinational Enterprises. I am not aware of the specific investments made by universities, but it is my clear impression that they take their social responsibility very seriously and that they also do so when they manage their funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163610	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163611	So the settlements are declared illegal by the government itself. I would like to start by making that clear. And they are an essential element in the repression of the Palestinian people by the Israeli apartheid regime. So I really hope that the government shares my view that it is essential to ensure that public actors do not invest in violations of international law. So a specific question to the Minister: what will the Minister do to ensure that Danish universities and other public actors do not in future invest in companies with activities in illegal settlements and thus comply with international obligations described in the UN Guidelines on Human Rights and Occupations?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163657	As I said in my introduction, I am not aware of the specific investments made by universities. I cannot say whether they have investments in Israeli settlements, and I must also remind Mr. Sikandar Siddique that universities are not, as was said in the question here, public institutions. They are self-serving institutions and they are responsible for managing their funds in a good and responsible way, including, of course, I believe that they follow the very clear guidelines and guidelines, namely that they follow the policy that exists and do not contribute to the activity of Israeli settlements.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163736	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163737	I must also admit that I find it incredibly difficult to understand how it can be done at all, that the self-serving institutions, which are also closely linked to the public, have a link with the public sector, invest in companies and activities of any kind in the illegal settlements of the Israeli regime. And that is why I would like to ask the Minister again whether the Minister would encourage Danish universities and other actors to withdraw their existing investments from companies that have activities in illegal settlements on the occupied West Bank. Will the Minister encourage the University of Copenhagen to stop investing in illegal settlements?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163835	As I have said, the government, in accordance with the adoption I referred to before, advises against engagement and activities aimed at strengthening Israeli settlements. And back in March 2018, a guidance on responsible investments was provided, and it points out the main issues to be taken into account by the level of investors' management, including the conditions we are talking about today. And it will then be the responsibility of universities to pay attention to those things. And, as I said, I am not aware of specific investments such as these, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique is suggesting here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163915	The questioner's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163916	The University of Copenhagen has invested about 2 million. kr. in illegal settlements, and I would like to send it over and draw the Minister's attention to these investments. But what will the Minister say to students against the occupation who, across Danish universities, naturally expect them to be able to take their education at an institution that does not provide support for an apartheid regime and its continuous violation of international law? What will the Minister say to students against the occupation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330163959	As I understand it, reference is made to an article which has been published some time ago, in other words, in relation to what Mr. Sikandar Siddique says now. And the KU has then dealt with this and had some sort of screening. And it may be explained in more detail if a written question is put. The government's position is quite clear and the guidance is quite clear that it must avoid investing in activities in Israeli settlements. So I do not sense any political disagreement here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330164036	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique and thank you to the Minister for Education and Research for today's work. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220330164047	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 31 March 2022, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
