ParlaMint-DK_20220428101529	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill no. L 185 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. and amending the rules on access to family reunification for persons with temporary protection status), Bill No. L 186 (Proposal for a law amending the law on basic integration training (igu) and the law on employers' training contributions. Bill No. L 187 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Bill No. L 188 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Bill No. L 189 (Proposal for a law amending the Aliens Act, the Law on Danish Education for Adult Aliens and Others, the Return Travel Act and the Law on the Enforcement of Punishment, etc.) Bill No. L 190 (Proposal for a law on the right of residence. ) The titles of the cases notified will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20220428101616	The matter entered in item 2 of the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House, and therefore consent to this item must be voted on in accordance with Rule 42 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428101626	A three-quarters majority is required for consent. And a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 97 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, SP and UFG) voted against 0, abstaining from voting 1 DF (by mistake). The consent is thus granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428101656	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428101713	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428101735	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. 87 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, SP and Nas Khader (UFG)) voted against 2 (FG), abstained 11 (DF, NB, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Lise Bech (UFG)). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428101802	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428101815	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. voted 98 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, SP, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG) and Nas Khader (UFG), against 2 (FG), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428101839	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. Now there has been time to leave the Chamber, and that is why I expect the talks that continue to take place outside the Parliamentary Chamber, so that the Members who are left are the ones who will take part in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428101957	The debate is open. Sir. Orla Hav, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428102017	Thank you for that, President. L 167 concerns the establishment of the Danish Export and Investment Fund. The reason for setting up an export and investment fund with more muscles is a desire to help strengthen and ensure the future of efforts for state cofinancing of Danish companies in both the export and growth sectors, as well as for small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship. The fund is provided by merging the Growth Fund, EKF Denmark's Export Credit and Denmark's Green Investment Fund. All in all, it gives a much greater impact force in terms of money. It also provides an opportunity to organise the work in an organisational manner so as to achieve the synergies that need to be achieved, and also to go against it and inspire companies to seize some of the new export opportunities and technological achievements that are being made. There is no doubt that Denmark is in the favourable situation, that we have some technologies which can be used to a great extent for the green transition into which the world is entering. We must, of course, make a big deal of that. And with this construction with the new fund, the Danish Export and Investment Fund, we have the opportunity to match and play with a skilled Danish business community that is both innovative and creates new results. Perhaps some might ask the question: is there money in it for the state? I just want to say that last year the Growth Fund came out of the year with a result of 4.2 billion. kr., and it is not so bad that you get a return on the investments you have made with Danish companies of 4.2 billion. kr. They can be used for new investments in Danish companies. So we actually think that a good initiative is being taken. And I would like to thank the parties that have been with the government and the Social Democratic Party, and it is the SF, the Radicals, the Danish People's Party and the Christian Democrats, for making a reform package that creates the basis for us to be able to go in and help to get a setup that Danish companies can use in the expansion of what they are good at, namely to make products for a world that screams for a green transition. So we think it is a sunshine story that we are addressing here today, and I should recommend that we vote in favour of the proposal, and at least the Social Democrats do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428102324	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428102326	Thank you. When you hear the Social Democratic rapporteur's reference to the bill, that sounds fantastic. But I'd like to know what, sir. Orla Hav is based on the statements. What are some of the problems identified in the way EKF is working today or the Growth Fund is working on today, and what analyses, what experience, does the Social Democracy believe that a merger will be an advantage? There is no reference to analyzing and doing anything, but you seem something. What's the professional reason for this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428102408	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428102409	I am tempted to say that these are roughly the same considerations as those which the Left did at the time when they merged municipalities when they merged regions and said that this gives more muscles, by being a large organization, better opportunity to do division of labour and specialise in their tasks. I know there was no hearing to find out where the evidence of that effort was, but nevertheless it changed society. It may well be that this is a thinking that draws on the same thinking, namely that more muscles also make you more able to do better. In fact, we believe in this very much when it comes to the economy and when it comes to investment. There is no criticism on our part of the efforts that have been made, but we need a stronger focus, and we do believe that this can be done within one organisation rather than split up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428102518	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428102520	Now I think that Mr. Orla Hav forgets that there was a structural commission which worked for a few years before an agreement was reached on municipal reform. So it wasn't just something like that with some sights and some guesses; there was quite a lot of work behind it. The reason I ask is that I myself put a lot of energy into the reform of our entire business promotion system that was made in 2015, 2016 and 2017, where it has all been analysed. The analysis was quite clear: EKF worked fantastic, there was no reason to move on to it. I ask: what has changed since then?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428102557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428102558	Let us finish with the municipal reform: if we had complied with some of the recommendations made by the Commission which went through the municipal reform and which it proposed, there could have been some bite in it, Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen is now expressing himself. But you didn't. You picked something completely different from what you thought. We feel the same way about this. We very much believe that the gathering of forces offers some opportunities for both specialisation and having more muscles available. And we think that is wise in terms of the interaction that we would like to have with business.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428102633	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428102644	Thank you for the floor. As the previous rapporteur rightly said, this bill is about merging the Growth Fund and Denmark's Export Credit and Denmark's Green Investment Fund into one fund. You want to make a so-called superfund. You have to ask yourself why. One can say that the Growth Fund and Denmark's Green Investment Fund are largely co-ordinated in advance it is probably not a large, complex exercise to do so. But basically, Denmark's Export Credit and Growth Fund are two very well-functioning funds that help support growth in Danish companies and provide capital where the market has difficulty in delivering. However, as I also tried to reveal in the question I put to the Social Democrat rapporteur, an analysis of our entire business promotion system, which had developed over many years in the best sense, into a very, very large and complex system, was launched in 2015. And the whole business promotion system was thoroughly analysed first in the so-called Struensee report and then by people with great insight on the basis of the information that then came up with a proposal, the simplification committee I think it was called, and that was, in large lengths of clogs, also what laid the basis for the decisions that were then taken, where we had a more uniform and unambiguous business promotion system. But then we also looked at the export credit fund and the analysis was clear. What users reported back was that the export credit fund worked really, really fine and that there was no reason to change it. And if things work, if there are no benefits of a change, if no one can point to things that are getting better, why throw themselves into change? I also hear a number of companies and organisations saying that we are concerned about the conversion of the two funds; that it can create uncertainty and frustration and slow things down for a period of time, especially when there is no greater purpose at the end of the road. The only thing that has happened to me is, in fact, that in 2019 the main trade union organisation brought the proposal to the fore. Germany was the model then. But, as I know, export financing is not part of the German model. So I'm having a little trouble seeing the purpose, if I'm to be honest. For this is it then leads me to another element that I have been brought to my attention quite recently. It is that, as I said, the European Commission has asked Denmark to wait until the Commission has approved the new fund in relation to the State aid rules. There are some challenges, I think, in relation to the Netherlands and Portugal, where failure to approve can hinder, for example, the creation of export credit financing in high-income countries. This can have an impact on investment in green technology, especially in the wind sector. And that is at least something that worries me that such a problem is being raised. Basically, we think it is extremely important to have a well-functioning business promotion system in Denmark; we think it is important that we have an export credit institution that supports Danish companies' access to export markets where uncertainty is greater. The Export Credit Fund has existed since 1922 and to great satisfaction, and we do not see any convincing arguments as to why this should be changed. We are not arguing in the Left, but there are no analyses; there are no recommendations. There is a call from the main organization of the trade union movement, and that is what it is. And we simply do not think this is enough to change important and well-functioning institutions. Somewhere in the process, however, the government must have been affected by it, because instead of doing what was originally proposed, namely a full merger, it will now be in two subsidiaries. So you have chosen to sit between two chairs even more. This may emphasise that the whole proposal is problematic. That is certainly why we in the Left cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428103139	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As I see it, we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428103156	Thank you, President. We are here today with L 167 and, as the others have said, it is in relation to creating the Danish Export and Investment Fund by combining EKF Denmark's Export Credit, Growth Fund and Denmark's Green Investment Fund. It is, of course, part of the debate that we have had for a long time about Denmark being able to do more and the agreement that was landed there. We have discussed it a lot and had many things up to do, and I am actually quite happy that this has ended up being part of the agreement. With the merger here, we need to strengthen the funding base for state co-financing for Danish companies, so that our Danish business community can get even stronger into the world, get even more growth and development and support the green transition. At least these are some of the things that I actually believe we can achieve by making that merger here. It is clear that we must, of course, be aware of how this change is going to happen. However, I also note that in the consultations there has been a lot of calm in relation to some of the concerns that were raised in the past. I am very pleased to be able to say that in any case radicals fully support the merger here and see good tactics in it. We look forward to following the work of the large fund forward-looking, so that we can have Danish companies supported even better in the future. Radicals therefore naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428103357	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428103402	When I read the bill, it's full of superlatives. I would just like to ask the radical rapporteur to make a concrete suggestion as to how this merger can strengthen, for example, export credit financing for Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428103414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428103415	That's one of them. The hope of this is that it is actually easier for Danish companies to have one place to go, so we do not have three different funds that it can be difficult to find out, but so you actually have a single place where you make sure to support Danish companies forward-looking, so that we actually make sure we put the power behind the Danish companies that are also going out into the world. I certainly hope so. And I certainly can't see how this could weaken Danish companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428103449	Torst Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428103451	I am glad that the radical rapporteur has a hope that it will work. I recognise that combining the Growth Fund and the Green Investment Fund can make sense. They have basically the same task. It's perfectly legitimate. But in my optics it is relatively clear that companies are well aware of whether it is export credit financing they need or whether it is capital to build up their business. I do not see it as a huge problem that companies should go to two different places. I just want to hear how the Radical Left will ensure that this bill does not weaken what the Export Credit Fund has.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428103527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428103528	I'm not worried about the effect being weakened at all. Of course, we follow it closely. We wouldn't do the merger if we were just to say, "Wows, hands off," and then we don't follow it up at all. Of course, we're following up on how this is going to work out. I also note that there has been an enormously close dialogue with the users of the Danish export credit and with those who are actually using it here today. And I think we have come to a place where everyone is confident that this can actually be very positive for Danish business.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428103600	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that means that we will move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. I don't suppose you've lost seats since the last time, so it's your turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428103626	This bill is about the Danish Export and Investment Fund, and it is a proposal that is inspired by what we see happening around other countries, both in Europe, but also in other parts of the world, where state investment funds are becoming increasingly a competitive parameter for countries' businesses and are increasingly important to ensure that companies can have access to both the right amount of capital at the right time, but also the right competences in raising a growth miracle, a company that is developing strongly, to a new level. After all, when a company reaches that level, we have to make sure that the company is not bought up at an early stage by a foreign capital fund, for example. an American capital fund, and is listed in another country, but that we keep the companies in Denmark so that we retain the Danish jobs and develop Danish growth environments, while at the same time ensuring that companies in Denmark with the way the tax system is arranged, the other thing being equal ensures a higher tax payment to Denmark, rather than if growth miracles in Denmark are bought up by foreign capital funds. There is currently a race with foreign capital funds in connection with Danish growth miracles. After all, we can see how many start-up companies have in recent years been bought up by foreign capital funds and have then been listed in other countries. We have a few exceptions to that, among others. The robot industry on Funen, where for various reasons it happened that foreign investors and capital funds discovered too late, if I may say that there was a growth miracle going on, and then the growth environment on Funen actually reached a mess, and there was a growth environment, so that the companies that started to develop, also new companies, were formed in Denmark, on Funen rather than the whole at an early stage moving abroad. That is what we need to get more of by ensuring that the right capital is available at the right time, but also the right competences. Because we are currently in a situation where companies, once they have reached a certain point and need the next boost and need capital in the region of 0.5 billion. kr. And up, there is simply not that capital available in Denmark. The market cannot deliver, nor is there the right skills to develop a Danish company at that time. So it is simply a question of strengthening Danish jobs, developing Danish jobs, maintaining Danish jobs, but also of securing Danish tax payments and also of ensuring that we have a setup, a structure, a financial structure that enables us to maintain and develop jobs in Denmark. That is what the fund can deliver here, and that is what we have lacked. And that is why it makes sense for the funds to be merged into one. It is not because we in Denmark are doing this as the only country; it is happening everywhere, in many countries of the world, that we can see that it is necessary here, also because such a state investment fund has become an international competitive parameter. So the market cannot carry out the task, and it is very good that now in Denmark there is a general trend, but it is also a general trend, we can look at the debate and developments internationally; in other countries it has become more focused and you have realised that the state can also play a positive role with state UCITS in promoting jobs, including green jobs. So this is a really good suggestion, and if I may be a little high-flying, I would say that there are many bad things in Denmark that can be more I.A. and also some good things, but this is for me to see at least structurally the heaviest and most important part of Denmark can do more I.A. This is a fund that can be crucial to maintaining Danish jobs and developing Danish jobs, also in relation to the green transition, and to securing tax payments in Denmark. It is actually a really, really important proposal, and it is actually a very important day today, I think, where we in Denmark are also taking this step that has been taken in many other countries. So Enhedslisten is very much in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104044	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104102	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. Conservatives, of course, were not included in this hopeless agreement for a so-called new reform package in January, an agreement that, in our opinion, leaves much to be desired. We are therefore also not in agreement on the merger of the Growth Fund, EKF Denmark's Export Credit and Denmark's Green Investment Fund for what some call a super fund, and we will therefore not vote in favour of the bill, which we see as part of an overall agreement. However, I am pleased to note that the word export has been included in the name of the fund, and I also believe that the crucial issue for the primary focus of the fund is precisely export. I very much hope that intentions, whatever they may be, are fulfilled and do not drown in merger bureaucracy, because we need flexibility and the egalitarianism, and we need to support Danish companies to such an extent. However, if we ask companies, they would, frankly, rather have had better framework conditions than a merger. One does not, of course, exclude the other, but I look forward to Denmark having more III, because although we are not really finished with no. I and No II, which has already been launched, they share the view that we lack the path of reform. Maybe the third time we've had luck.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104208	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and therefore it is now Mette Hjermind Dencker, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104231	Thank you. The proposal is part of the agreement on a new reform package, which we in the Danish People's Party also helped to enter into in January, and that is to combine the Growth Fund, EKF Denmark's Export Credit and Denmark's Green Investment Fund in one. The state financing offers must help to support the competitiveness of companies in a global market that is, after all, constantly evolving. We also see that many other countries have state funding to help their businesses, so we must be able to keep up with that competition. In the Danish People's Party, we are very much in favour of not making things more complicated than they are, and when you have had to search a place before when your smaller company had to scale, and look somewhere else when you have to choose some green initiatives, and look for a third place when you have to succeed on export markets, it is wonderful that the proposal here makes sure that there is one entry for companies when they have to seek state aid, no matter what it may be. In the Danish People's Party we have been fighting for years to lower the limit for lending in the Growth Fund, so that the minimum amount could be well below 1 million. kr., so that we could get more small businesses going and especially companies in the province, and there we were really happy that we finally succeeded, and vice versa we will also be very sorry if we have to go whistle and get swallowed up when we put it together for one. That is why our focus in the Danish People's Party is on SMEs not getting worse conditions, which is also a concern from the business community. So we look forward to the continued examination of the legislative proposal, and we welcome the simplification it provides, and then we will stand guard and ensure that it only improves, including for small businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104433	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104439	Thank you. I can hear that my Conservative colleague is looking forward to Denmark having more III. I mean, when I look at Denmark, more than I do, I fear more what's going to happen in Denmark can be more III, but you can have different approaches to that. Basically, I'm not a big fan of these funds. I would rather create proper framework conditions instead. This is going to be such an increased centralisation, and we are not that big a fan of that, so we're not going to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104503	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we came to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104511	Thank you. With this bill, the Government will combine three state investment funds, the Growth Fund, EKF Denmark's Export Credit and Denmark's Green Investment Fund, into a large fund. This is something which the parties who would like to have such foundations must be concerned with: whether they want three or whether they want one. We don't want to go to the Liberal Alliance. We do not understand why we should have an industry that is on state aid. This is something that the Enhedslisten is in favour of. This is something which the Social Democrats are in favour of and which the Left and Conservatives are in favour of, but we want a free economy that does not have the trunk in the treasury and in the pockets of taxpayers. You have to be a Leftman or a Conservative or an ultra-socialist or a Social Democrat to think that it is good ideas that business has those trunks. We like it better when companies want to invest, spend their own money or go to private investors and these private investors spend their own money. We do not believe that anything very good comes from the fact that officials or politicians invest other people's money. We believe that there is more to come from the fact that people are investing their own money. Here we hear a lot from the platform about how much money the state has made in recent years to have these funds, and there you go completely past that it is because we have rise times. This applies to everyone who invests in these years... even my pension funds will be worth more, although I have little sense of investing. So the state does; it also gets richer in these years when it invests something. If we went back to the time after the financial crisis in 2008, we would see that the funds that were at that time, the Growth Fund and the Export Credit Fund, lost money, and what is there is that you lose money in bad years and you win money in good years, and when Mr. Orla Hav stands up here for the great Prime Minister's Party, he only mentions the good years, because then he thinks that you can tell the people and things like that the Social Democrats and the government would like to tell people that the state can only find a way to make money and that it never wastes money, even if it does so on a large scale, when we are just in some less good times than what we have at the moment. We're voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104733	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Orla Hav, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104737	I'm just gonna reveal to Mr. Keating. Ole Birk Olesen, that the year I've been looking at is the year in which Denmark and the whole world were marked by corona. Is it as a starting point a good year to make money in, sir? Ole Birk Olesen?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104754	Anyone who owns shares knows it's been good years to have shares in. That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104800	Sir. Orla Hav.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104801	What I was asking is if it was good years to make money in. I am aware that we have had an influx of companies which have applied for compensation for one and the other, and thirdly, but yet the Growth Fund can show an income of 4.2 billion. kr. So it's a good year to make it up? Or is it sir? Ole Birk Olesen's ideological generalizations that we're exposed to?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104834	That is simply such a stupid comment, but it is not new that Mr. Orla Hav makes stupid comments. It has been an extremely good year to be an investor in Denmark and elsewhere in the world, and also in these corona years. The stock has increased, the value of the companies has increased. That is why the Growth Fund, the Green Investment Fund and the Export Credit Fund have made money in these years, but they did not do so right after the financial crisis when it was bad years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104859	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. That is why it is now Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428104907	I think we may be able to disagree in this Chamber without saying that other people's opinions are stupid. You can say that you don't think it's right or productive, etc., but leave it at that. SF is part of Denmark can do more I.D., and thus we are also part of this agreement on this so-called superfund, as it is called in the people, where three funds are put together. After a little initial uncertainty, at least in some places, about what the merger and the process will mean especially for EKF, which provides support for export companies, it seems as if more calm has been achieved, and that is very good. And I know that the Ministry of Business and Industry has focused on the need for the merger to take place in a good way. I would like the Minister to address the part of the process which concerns the approval of the European Union, because the European Commission must always approve such large mergers and, as far as I know, it has not yet been approved. So perhaps the Minister could inform us here or, alternatively, in writing something about the process and the time perspective for it. That is also relevant to us in the Folketing. During the discussion on the merger into this fund, as I could also hear that Enhedslisten's rapporteur is, I have been very concerned that we should use it in the best possible way, i.e.. It is clear that we do not have to support companies that are in tax havens, and we have now got an EU definition of this and although it is not very good, it is something that this new big fund must also make an extra effort in the green area. Those things are largely met. I have a discussion with the Minister for Business that we should not, of course, invest fossilly here or abroad, but I also understand from the Minister for Business that this is something that we will achieve. For, of course, we need a fund that wholeheartedly supports the 70-percent objective. It is a wish of virtually a united Parliament, and that is why the state money behind it must of course also be used to back it up, just as they must also be used to support the objectives of the Paris Agreement. I have nothing more to say about this. We think, like Enhedslisten, that this is one of the very good things that has come out of Denmark can more I. So there are some economies of scale in being able to have such a large fund that can also become a somewhat more relevant player in the global market. So thank you for that. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428105209	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428105216	Thank you very much for that, and thank you very much for the good handling of this bill. I shall vote in favour of the Glee Club of those who have said that today is a great day. It is a great day for Danish business policy. Because when we propose to establish the Danish Export and Investment Fund today, we are also preparing Denmark and the Danish business community for the future. We have great ambitions for Danish business. We'll show that with the merger and the bill here. We have it for Danish companies and for Danish jobs. And we show that, as a society, we are ready to be where the market is not necessarily mature or where the traditional private sources of funding do not strike; that we as a society dare to place muscle power where we make Danish business stronger not only, but especially in the green area. The three foundations, which we put together with the bill here, have each made a significant contribution in their own way to creating a productive Danish business community, and it is their solid, good performance that we now have to build on in Denmark's Export and Investment Fund. These are the strong professional environments that we would like to give even more power, even more muscle power. The best place to gather strength and increase muscle power is of course with those who have lifted the task. That's what we're doing with the bill today. Specifically, the draft law now provides the framework for the activities of the three funds to continue within the framework of the Danish Export and Investment Fund. This means that the fund is initially also organised with a parent company and two subsidiaries. The management board and management of the fund will then have the task of drawing up a strategy on how best to integrate those activities and how best to achieve a single fund. The backdrop to the draft law here is that we see international competition as increasingly moving forward. More and more countries are using government funding, and they are using it more strategically... some will say more and more aggressively. The fight is and is just getting harder and harder on international export markets. This means that state funding will become an increasingly relevant competitive parameter for Danish companies and, of course, for the major exporters. Denmark is a proud and skilled export nation, and we have the whole world as our marketplace. But it is clear that we are also a relatively small player when we compare ourselves with other and larger countries. This is one of the reasons why there is a need for us to pool our powers and pool our competences so that the funds can develop and can play each other even better and support Danish companies. The purpose of creating the Danish Export and Investment Fund is to contribute to our having a strong and green business in 10 and 15 and 20 years' time. This requires that we strengthen the opportunities for funding both for growth at home and for exports on the markets out there. This requires that SMEs, growth companies and the huge international players in the Danish business community all have a place to go, and they do so in the Danish Export and Investment Fund. So when we gather our strength, it is of course to be able to have more punches in the glove and give more power to also develop new products, new solutions for Danish companies, so that the fund can support the development of Danish business, and so that on behalf of all of us, the fund can take the risk that is sometimes necessary to drive companies to an even stronger position, or to be able to pull the specific export order home to Denmark. The green transition is a good example of the need for society and the community to play an active role in economic policy. We can do this with the Danish Export and Investment Fund by bringing together capital, competences and strong innovation power in one organisation with one joint management. Then it is important, as Mrs Hjermind Dencker of the Danish People's Party says, that the merger here should be used to provide an even better service to businesses, especially to small and medium-sized enterprises. Creating a common entrance will allow our companies, including those who may not be used to navigating in these opportunities with state funds, to find their way to finance and so that companies can be guided easily and safely through the state funding grants from the first e-mail or conversation to the funding in hand. It can capture the potentials of Danish business and not least in the slightly smaller companies that do not know or do not use these opportunities in advance. The merger here also follows a bottom-up task that we have to solve together. Our green business venture in Denmark is strengthened with the merger here. We will be able to contribute more effectively to the green transition together with the Danish business community. This is a very important task, and this task has not become less important in the light of the war in Ukraine, where energy policy has become a serious business policy too. For although it is on a deeply tragic background, the conversion creates opportunities for Danish companies for new green jobs and for strengthened exports and growth. Here Danish companies can help solve the challenges that Denmark, Europe and the rest of the world are currently facing. We must roll out the new technologies in Denmark and in the international markets, both those we know today and those we do not know today, but which will become the growth and export success of the future. Denmark's Export and Investment Fund will support this. For Danish companies are very good at green conversion, and our opportunities to help with it in terms of funding must of course match the high level that companies have on the green side. Then it is true, as several rapporteurs have said, that concerns have been raised along the way, including from some of the major Danish exporters. I have, of course, listened to the concerns that have been raised, not least from the major Danish exporters. In fact, many of our major exporters today depend on them having good Danish export guarantees when negotiating large international contracts. That is why, of course, we want to maintain the same highly qualified and agile service that they are receiving today. We maintain the effective procedures when, for example, this is done. the approval of individual financing cases. That is my clear expectation of the new management, I would also like to say that concrete investment and financing decisions can be taken in subsidiaries where the activities are located, just as it is my clear expectation that the fund will maintain its focus on customers just as they are doing today. The reality is that if we are to continue to do well in a global and open economy, we must make the best possible use of all our resources. And if we are to make a significant contribution to the green transition, then we need skills and muscle power behind it. We are now gathering these muscles in the Danish Export and Investment Fund, and I hope the parties of the Danish Parliament will support this. I know that there are some who were not part of the political agreement, but for the sake of setting up the fund and further work, I hope that there is a possibility that those parties which were not part of the political agreement will also, before we reach the third reading, take up their position and consider voting through the foundations of the fund so that it can be established as widely as possible. With those comments, I look forward to a good legal treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428110142	I should like to make a brief comment first. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428110146	Thank you. When the government presented the plan Denmark can more or less • I, the government was very clear. There had to be a full merger, and the government thought that would have a lot of positive consequences. The draft law, and that is also what the Minister says from the platform today, establishes two independent subsidiaries which will then have to look at how benefits are obtained. Is it not a clear admission that there was no analysis behind the government's proposal, but that there was just a political ambition?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428110217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428110218	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen tells only one part of what the bill is really about, because it is true that two subsidiaries are being set up which are similar to what is EKF today and what is the Growth Fund today. However, the parent undertaking is also set up to implement the integration of subsidiaries, so that we have one single fund. I do not quite know what kind of world the Left lives in if you are not also able to look out the window and can see how the international export markets develop, with what intensity and also sometimes aggressiveness we see exactly this type of source of funding being used strategically quite violently also by countries that we compete with. It is not we as a state as such, but on behalf of large Danish green export companies. We need to get orders out on green export markets, and that sometimes requires that we have the state to provide the guarantees. We can do this even more forcefully in one organization.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428110324	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428110325	After all, no one disagrees with the purpose. It's just a question of whether a changed organisation is the answer to that. And I have to say that the government hasn't made it yet. Another issue raised by Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen is that of EU approval. As I have been informed, there is a risk that if this bill is adopted before EU approval is available, some problems may arise. So can the Minister either guarantee that the EU approval is in place before the third reading, or that any adoption before the EU approval will have no impact on the wind business of the Export Credit Fund in high-income countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428110406	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428110407	The last thing first: it is clear that when we establish the Danish Export and Investment Fund, we must, of course, comply with the relevant international rules, and this also applies to the EU's state aid rules. We in the Ministry of Industry are engaged in the dialogue with the European Commission on the need for notification of the Danish Export and Investment Fund and the framework for the activities to be carried out in the Fund. Moreover, we can see that several other EU Member States have brought together state funding under one organisation and have notified the designs. So I see no problem in adopting the law before notification, and therefore I do not expect any problems with that part of the matter either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428110449	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428110502	The debate is open. The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428110528	Thank you. Today, as I have said, we have to deal with a motion for a resolution by the Free Greens, which proposes that the government be required to submit a legislative proposal by the end of this year, namely 2022, and with effect from 1 January, when a progressive asset tax is introduced. According to the proposal, the tax base for the property tax should be calculated as broadly as possible, i.e.: including owner-occupied housing, pension assets and financial assets deducted from all loans. The value of unlisted shares and the value of cooperative housing are also included in the base, i.e. as broad as possible. With the proposal, the Free Greens want to equalise inequality in society, and that is a sympathetic purpose. There has previously been a wealth tax in Denmark. The wealth tax amounted to 1 per cent. of the part of the taxable assets exceeding a base deduction of DKr 1,635,500. for the 1996 income year. The asset tax was abolished with effect from the 1997 income year. It was considered that there was no need for a wealth tax when, at the same time, consistent taxation of all kinds of income occurred, regardless of the source from which they originated. A new wealth tax system will in many ways lean on the previous wealth tax system, and it will probably return to some of the problems that people had at the time. This applies, among other things, to: the valuation of unlisted shares, previously determined by the so-called tax rate calculated on the basis of specified items in the company's accounts, and in the vast majority of cases the real value of the shares was greater than that of the property tax. The same uncertainty in the valuation will also be found in assets that are not so often traded. It could, for example, be done. be a store of goods, movable property or outstanding claims, to be determined by estimation. It is absolutely crucial for a potential property tax that the assets can be accurately measured whether they are located in housing, unlisted shares, quoted shares or other. Firstly, it must ensure that citizens of the same size of assets are also taxed on a very fair principle. Otherwise, the sense of justice will suffer. Secondly, a flawed statement of assets or a capital base, with exceptions, will mean that the assets are placed where the tax base is lowest and not where the socio-economic return is highest. A precise and robust inventory of the assets is thus also the greatest practical challenge of a property tax. The government, like the proposers, wants to fight the rising inequality. The government has already taken action to reduce inequality in society. These include the reintroduction of a uniform household and gift tax and the proposal for a ceiling on corporate deductions for higher wages. In addition, the government, together with a number of other parties of the Folketing, has concluded a housing tax settlement which, when fully implemented, ensures that the taxation of properties is based on more accurate and current valuations. The Ministry of Finance's statement of inequality shows that the amount of wealth in general is closely linked to certain stages of life. Younger adults typically have small and not rarely negative net worth. Afterwards, net worth grows towards the date of retirement, in line with, among other things: the construction of pension assets and the settlement of housing debts and any student debt. After the date of retirement, net worth gradually decreases as the savings are consumed. The net assets are therefore typically highest immediately before withdrawal from the labour market. Thus, the proposal will significantly affect people approaching retirement age, who, after a long life on the labour market, have saved up for their pensions and perhaps have just saved up to prepare for retirement. Furthermore, people with savings in a pension fund will have to be taxed by a bottom-up fortune. For some, it will mean that they will have to borrow in order to pay their property tax. In addition, a wealth tax of the proposed magnitude will also provide a significant incentive for tax speculation and will lead to more money being transferred out of the country. Therefore, a wealth tax of the order of magnitude proposed is likely to act as a significant tightening of the capital income tax, which will shift the balance sheets of the current tax on capital income, thereby reducing the incentive to save. The government does not therefore see that a wealth tax of this magnitude is a suitable instrument for reducing inequality, and therefore we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111016	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111019	Thank you, Minister. Of course, in the Greens, we are sorry that the government does not support the proposal. What I would like to point out is that the proposal is trying to go for the big fortunes, and that is only approx. 10% of the Danish population who will be covered by this proposal • the richest 10%. of the Danish population. When the wealth tax was abolished in Denmark at the time, it was because of a financial settlement with the Conservatives, and at that time the Socialist Government said that it was not happy, but that this was what it had to be. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is the view of the government that we should again have a wealth tax, although it is not in this form that lies in the proposal. But is it the government's view that we should have a wealth tax again in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111122	To the first part I would like to say that, as I have at least been informed, based on the resolution, a total of some 425 000 will be subject to the property tax, of which 385 000 alone at the lowest level, that is. persons with a fortune of less than 10 million. kr. And as I explained in my speech, many people have also saved up which will be affected by this property tax close to retirement age. So to the second question about whether it is reasonable to make a tax on wealth: Well, now the title of property is very broadly defined here. After all, we have put forward a proposal which actually taxes, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So raising taxation for some things that are really inherited or other things, in order to reduce inequality and to use those things for something else and thus also to create greater justice, we are in fact in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111228	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111229	I am, of course, pleased that this is still the position of the Socialist Group and that is what I understood. Sir. Mogens Lykketoft has also been out saying not long ago that it was wrong to abolish the tax on wealth and that we should reinstate it. Sir. Mogens Lykketoft is setting up for a different model than the one we're setting up for here. Then I would like to ask the Minister something. We are currently in a situation where we have been through a corona crisis and hundreds of billions have been given in corona relief packages to business and business owners. There we have seen that inequality has been increasing. Does the government have any idea how to combat in concrete terms the inequality that has arisen here during the corona?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111313	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111315	Well, I think we should be careful not to say: now we have had corona, and inequality is increasing, and then we need to put in place harder tools to sort out the Corona crisis. One of the most important developments is the housing tax agreement, which means that you will receive an ongoing profit tax on your housing, because the taxation of housing will reflect the real trade price. One of the things that has been very expensive and has created extremely much inequality has been the fact that back in the early '00s the tax freeze was introduced, which has, of course, made it impossible to have a real tax on housing that has followed market developments. So that is one of the measures that will actually restore some of the balance that was.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111356	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. And then we start with the rapporteur's round, and we start with Mr. Brian Bressendorff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111411	Thank you for the floor, President. The motion for a resolution by the Free Greens, which we are now about to discuss, will require the government to put forward a legislative proposal to introduce a progressive asset tax. The intention behind the proposal is quite sympathetic, namely to reduce inequality in Danish society. According to the Free Greens, this should be done through a very broad progressive wealth tax, such as: covers owner-occupied housing, pension assets and the value of unlisted shares and more. As a starting point, the Social Democrats agree that we must combat the growing inequality, because we also see more benefits in having a more equal society. This applies both to the reduction of social tensions, to better social mobility and to economic growth. That is why we are also concerned about the issue of inequality. This can be seen, among other things, by the fact that the government has introduced a number of measures aimed precisely at reducing inequality in society. That is why we also share the intention of the Free Greens with the proposal, but it must be done responsibly and fairly, and there are a number of reasons why the proposal here does not. Firstly, we know that many of the people who will be affected by this proposal are people who, through a long working life, have been saving up for their pensions. We do not think it is fair that those people should risk being taxed as they approach the time for a dignified withdrawal. Secondly, we know that people with savings in a pension fund could risk being taxed by a bottom-up fortune. This will mean that some of them will have to borrow just in order to pay the property tax. We don't think that's fair. Thirdly, it can finally lead to tax speculation and simply move the money out of the country if a wealth tax of the size proposed here is introduced. That is why we do not see the proposed asset tax as a fair or responsible way of reducing inequality, which is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111613	There are requests for short remarks. First, it's sir. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111616	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. We are, of course, sorry that the Social Democrats will not support our proposals. But I would just like to remind you that with this proposal we are hitting 10%. the richest Danes, and out of the 10%. Ninety percent. to pay 1%. In the case of property tax • 1%. This means that all those who have less than 3.5 million. kr., doesn't get hit, but do you have 3.6 million? kr., you must pay 1,000 kr. a year. My question to the rapporteur I also asked the Minister, but I would just like to ask the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party is: is it still social democratic policy that you want a wealth tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111709	Thank you for the question. I really want to start with the 10%. wealthiest, like Mr. Sikandar Siddique mentions. I really think the minister explained very well in his speech by giving us a picture of this curve of how the net worth develops for a lot of people in this country through life... that in the young years you can stand and so have a negative net worth, which for many people grows up to retirement age, by investing in a dwelling, by saving your pension quietly by hard work, and then when you start to spend some of the money put aside. So I have to say that I think there is some justice missing in this, where we are going to also hit ordinary Danes who have gone to work and worked hard every day and have put money aside, both by having paid off their debts and repayments on their homes, but also by having done what we want them to do, namely save up for the pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111812	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111814	Yes, it is true that the wealth grows by it, that you get older, but the curve goes up first and then down. This means that it will always be the case that those who get bigger fortunes end up being the 10%, because the fortune gets smaller and then it gets smaller. So it will always only be the approx. 10% I did not get an answer to my question, so I would like to ask again: is it social democratic policy that you want to introduce a wealth tax as it was until it was abolished because of the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111847	In any case, we agree with the intention that we should have done something about the inequality that exists in society. Even if it's a fortune tax, I don't think I'm gonna stand here and promise Mr. Knox. Sikandar Siddique. But we're already in the process of action... they've been taken... and I don't think we're done discussing that agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111910	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111913	Thank you. The rapporteur said that the government wants to reduce inequality. Is that what this government has done? Has inequality increased with the measures that this government has taken, or is inequality reduced with the isolated measures that this government has taken?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428111935	I think, first of all, that I would say that we have a government which, in recent years, has been in crisis after crisis. I would like to say that it has been possible to hold hands under jobs, under business, and what it does first and foremost is to ensure that ordinary Danes can stand up to work every day forever, and that is one of the main things that reduces inequality between us. We can get up every day, we have a job to stand up to, we can pay into our pension, and we can pay off on mortgage and whatever else we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112013	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112014	It was well tried, but it was just not the answer to my question. It was quite simple: has this government's policy increased inequality, or has it reduced inequality? It is in your understanding paper that you should seek to reduce inequality. The fact is, and I can tell you that the opposite has been done. And then I ask whether the rapporteur also recognises that the policy of the Ministry of Finance itself has increased inequality in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112045	I recognise that, for two years of the Corona crisis, we have managed to keep our hands on employment in this country, so that right now we have the highest level of employment ever. I have to say that I think that is what is going to have the greatest effect on what can be saved in relation to wealth, pensions and payments on one's mortgage, but it will have a huge effect on this inequality that will be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112109	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we are going further. Mrs. Anne Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112122	Thank you for the floor. I have to promise that the left is creative when it comes to finding new ways of getting the taxpayers' money. Since the Social Democracy came into power, more than 40 different tax increases have been made that pull money out of the Danes' pockets, and the money will be spent on the government's many expensive projects and generous welfare gifts. Over the last three years, the government has paid 2,000 kroner. extra tax-free per month for unemployed immigrants in particular. Today, we have to decide on a proposal for a progressive capital tax from the Free Greens, where, among other things, we have to deal with it. will tax Denmark's pension assets by up to 20%. It is not clear from the text of the proposal what the tax is to finance. Apparently, it is an independent goal to get the Danes to pay more taxes. Let me start by saying that, of course, the Left does not support this proposal. The tax freeze is a central part of the Left's economic policy and the electorate's guarantee that taxes and charges are kept in order. This applies in particular to growth-damaging taxes such as the property tax that the Free Greens want to introduce. Because the point is that it will have major negative effects when the desire to save and invest, if you tax wealth by up to 20%, as the proposal here proposes. This will increase the incentive to lend the house up to the chimney and go on some cool abroad trips to avoid the property tax, and Danish entrepreneurs will get a hint with a truck bar that it is not in Denmark that you should place your business. And as a former self-employed person, I can say that it is hard work to knock up a company, and if it succeeds, there will be a capital tax to thank you for your efforts. In short, a wealth tax will make it more expensive to be a Dane, lead to less growth and fewer jobs, and with these words I can say that the Left is voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112319	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112321	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for calling Free Greens creative; I take that as a compliment, and then I would really like to answer the question that was asked. We are not making this proposal to finance anything. There will be tax revenue, and we can use this to combat inequality and climate problems, but for us it is basically about combating the big fortunes and combating the inequality that exists in our societies. However, I would also like to correct the rapporteur when the rapporteur mentions 20%. Well, with our proposal comes 90%. of all those who will be covered by this proposal, only to pay 1%. Baby. The richest one percent is going to pay more than 1%. So it's not going to hit ordinary people by 20%. So you have to have a fortune of 1 billion. kr. Because it's 20% that you're taxed. Then comes my question, and I have two seconds left: does the rapporteur think that it is unfair if a couple with a net worth of 7 million? kr. must pay 10,000 kroner. a year and, at the same time, where it fights inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112433	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112434	Then I would just like to correct the rapporteur and say that it was said but to return: this is all about people who have spent their working lives acting financially responsibly and saving and investing and paying off their debts. After all, not all people are entitled to an Arnepension, and those people have chosen instead to save up for their pensions, and we do not think that we should be penalised for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112506	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112507	Approx. 90% The Danish people will not be affected by this proposal. You have to have 3.5 million without debt and without deferred taxes. kr. plus in wealth, before it is, you get hit by this proposal, and then you get hit by 1% if you have up to 10 million. DKK, and that's only 20% when you have over 1 billion. kr. So it's not the ordinary citizen who gets hit with this. Our purpose is to fight the big fortunes, not the ordinary Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112543	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112544	But this is not the Left agenda at all. We're not trying to make the rich poorer. We're trying to make the whole of Denmark richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112553	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Jan Bjergskov Larsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112603	Thank you, sir. President. In the SF we share the intention to introduce a wealth tax, and we do so because we have the basic view that the people who have the most must also contribute the most, and because we actually believe that there is more to be done when it comes to combating economic inequality in Denmark. We want an equal and fair society, and there is, in fact, a potential for the widest shoulders to carry a larger load, to which a wealth tax is also a tool. We want an economic policy that is not dictated by the fact that those who have the most decide policy because they threaten to move abroad. We have previously proposed in the SF that a property tax of 0.5% should be introduced. of that part of net worth exceeding 5 million. kr., and we've done that because we see a fortune tax as another fair tool. But what we are discussing today is a wealth tax on a somewhat different level. For SF, it is important to say that a wealth tax is not the only tool that can be used to increase economic equality in Denmark. In the past, SF has proposed both raising and redeploying the inheritance tax so that it becomes more progressive. We have also wanted to remove the remaining tax loopholes that exist for large multinational companies. So when we cannot support this proposal we are discussing now, the basic reason is that the proposed property tax, seen with SF's glasses, is not necessarily the right one and is not necessarily the most appropriate one, and that is partly because the proposed percentages are too high. It is the case that you cannot be half pregnant, either you are pregnant, or you are not, and so is the proposal, so either you accept these percentages or you do not, and I would say that we have simply gone too far with the SF's glasses. But, hopefully, when a property tax is passed, we believe that a basis needs to be created to include all the relevant assets, including unlisted shares. We therefore share the proposalers' intention of a progressive asset tax, but we think that the level here is too high and too unrealistic, so we cannot immediately support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112826	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112829	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for supporting the intention. Of course we are sorry, you are not going to support the proposal. When I had to prepare this proposal, I also looked at the other parties' property taxes, and there I see that SF will have a flat asset tax of 0.5%. of assets exceeding 5 million. kr. But we think this is unfair, because we tax billionaires and those who have more than 5 million. kr., the same, and thus you do not take a fight with the fortunes. But I would like to ask the rapporteur at this point whether, if it is the percentages here that are bothering, the SF is ready to join us, for example. Enhedslisten and Free Greens to produce a proposal for wealth taxation which we can then put forward here and hopefully get through?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112934	I do not wish to reject that outright. I think we can work that out. Now, of course, I am a temporary rapporteur in this area, so I would hate to make too many promises on behalf of the rapporteur in this area, but we are always open to putting ourselves together with other parties and making proposals. But there is no doubt that the percentages will have to be discussed in depth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112954	Sikandar Siddique wishes to speak? Yeah, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428112958	Yes, I'm sorry, President. The reason why I did not take the floor again was that the rapporteur, and that is fair enough, is a substitute for another rapporteur, and then the discussion becomes too technical. Thank you, however, to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113010	Yeah, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113011	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113013	Now the rapporteur mentions that the SF will combat inequality in society, and I asked the Socialist rapporteur, who twice tried not to answer the question. But can the SF's rapporteur answer this question, i.e. whether the inequality caused by the government's policy of financial laws and reforms supported by the SF has actually increased in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113034	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113035	It is also a relatively technical issue, and I do not want to talk about Gini coefficients and the uncertainty surrounding it. I would like to say that it is the Social Democratic Party which must basically stand up to the objectives of the policy pursued. SF has supported a large number of proposals, and if we see that the alternative is worse, then we support it, even if it can affect inequality. But there is no doubt that we are fighting inequality and doing everything we can. We have put pressure on the Commission to do so, and we are also waiting for the negotiations to be concluded soon, in view of the fact that we actually believe that we should have given those who have the least, better conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113118	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113120	Yes, I will go so far as to say that the SF is talking about combating inequality, but that the policy pursued does the opposite. Measured per year year is Mette Frederiksen's government, which SF supports through the understanding paper, the government which has increased the inequality measured by the Gini Coefficient and that is now what we measure it on the most, even when comparing with the Løkkestyrelsen and Thorning government. So the fact is, when you look at the really led police, that the inequality right now is increasing big, and is it SF's policy? It has been supported for three years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113155	No, I almost think that the rapporteur has been living in a vacuum if it has not been observed that over the last two years there have been a large number of fundamental factors which have disrupted the political system, which has allowed us to act differently. So there have been some terms. I am absolutely convinced of the fact that the Social Democrat rapporteur made it very clear that there have been some conditions that we had to sail the ship through, and now we are heading the other way, and I clearly see some prospects that we, together with the Social Democratic Party, will change the conditions and be more equal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113233	Thank you. There are no further comments to the rapporteur. Mrs Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113252	Thank you, President. In the Radical Left, we recently decided to have a new programme of principles, and the programme of principles says that we are fighting inequality. And when we in the Radical Left talk about inequality, we paint with the broad brush: it is not just about economic inequality or redistribution of the money that is in society; it is also about inequality in health, it is about social inheritance, it is about access to education for all. In reality, we in the Radical Left are working to increase the chances, that is. create the opportunity for everyone in this society to have a good future. That has been said, so thank you for the proposal to the Free Greens. The wealth tax is always interesting to discuss. But unlike the Left, who praised the proposal for being creative and I know what the Left meant by it, and how it should be understood, I actually think it is a rather imaginative proposal. I think it is a lack of imagination when the left wing can only drive up taxes on wealth over and over again via a wealth tax. It is somehow a relic of the last century. And in a small open economy like Denmark, it can be incredibly difficult to stem fortunes, for example. move abroad as soon as you start looking at an additional tax on them, even if it is only 1%. In addition to that, we already have a great many ways of moving funds in our society, and the Minister mentioned some of them. For example: I think that is the way we have made a very good housing agreement. One of the most inequitable things in this society was the 2002 tax freeze that Anders Fogh Rasmussen introduced. This helped to distort the entire housing market in a way that moved wealth and education and segments around Denmark, so today we are looking at the fact that there is an enormous difference between municipalities. We have then tried to patch that up with the compensatory reform, but we will probably have to look at that again in 5-6 years' time anyways, that was a siding. In addition to the property tax, there is also a heavy tax on shares. It is also the case that we have an inheritance tax of 15%, and then we also have a tax on pension income, the so-called PAL tax. So in reality it can be said that in Denmark we already have some very good ways in which we redistribute wealth and send money back into society and jointly lift our welfare. Some of the problems I see that the Greens are preoccupied with are, after all, the inequality that is going on all over the world. I can easily see why it looks quite wrong when I and I don't remember the percentages, so now the rapporteurs and everyone else have to forgive me 10%. of the population on the globe owns 90 per cent. by all means, or something like that. It is clear that when you see this type of bias in other countries, you can sit here in Denmark wondering why they don't just do it, as we do in Denmark. It could be amazing a long way along the way. But the solution to global inequality is not in Denmark to go in and take hold of anything from the last century out of some kind of lack of imagination and then say that we are redistributing with an old-fashioned wealth tax. Other means are needed in order to obtain the inequality we are experiencing in Denmark, which we are particularly looking at in the field of health and which we are looking at in particular in the field of education and, moreover, also between different ethnic groups. This is a completely different discussion and another type of inequality, but I would also like to talk about it. That's not it at all. So those were the words. We do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113634	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113637	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are, of course, sorry that Radicals will not support the proposal. Now the rapporteur mentions a lot of other inequalities, in other words health inequalities, in the field of education, but does the rapporteur recognise that economic inequality, which we want to combat with this proposal, is precisely helping to create inequality in all the other areas mentioned by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113703	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113705	Yes, I would actually like to help recognise that, but there are also a lot of ways in which we try to help the lowest income groups. For example: It was, after all, the Radical Left that got carried into the understanding paper that the poorest children's families in what is still called "home travel allowance" receive an additional grant per year. child, so that they can keep the skin on their noses and get three meals a day. So we in the Radical Left have actually actually offered in concrete terms how we can financially also help the very weakest.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113740	Here we go again, sir. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113745	However, with all due respect to the rapporteur, we must note, and the responsibility lies not only with the Radicals, that inequality is increasing and has also been increasing under the Socialist Government supported by the Radical Left and the other supporting parties. So there is something that is missing; there is something that we need. When we put forward this proposal in the Free Greens, it is simply because the argument that the fortunes are moving is in itself the greatest proof of why it is that so much money and so many values should not be concentrated in individual people so that they can simply by relocation undermine our welfare system. Then there's something basically wrong. What we want with this proposal is to combat inequality, and it is to redistribute and take the values that a great many employees have created, which now lie with a few private people, and to distribute them, to democratise them, so that more people benefit from those values. The rapporteur had a great many things in his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113850	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113852	This is a slightly different discussion, because it is on a global scale, but if, on the basis of what I apologise for, I am now going to say something on the level playing field in the English language, we say that we have a smooth competition throughout the world, then we could look at that, and we should really look at it from the Radical Left too, to put a wealth tax on all billionaires, in the very highest income groups. It would, I think, be very popular on the planet.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113925	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113929	To what the rapporteur says, there is no increase in inequality worldwide. Inequality worldwide is decreasing. That is just the opposite of what the rapporteur said. Well, if we look at the facts, the inequality is falling worldwide. Does the rapporteur recognise that world inequality is decreasing?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428113953	Yes, and it is because there are actually very many countries that are making a great deal of effort to lift the very poorest out of, for example. Hungry. And you can see from some of these basic figures that it is true that the world is moving in the right direction, but we have still gone some huge fortunes too. I believe that the work of the OECD on common taxation is the right way to go. But in the Radical Left we are not in the world to fight wealth; we are in the world to fight inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114040	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114042	One of the drivers of reducing inequality in the world is that the two most populous countries, China and India, have lifted up a great many from the poorest group into the middle class. At the same time, it has meant that some have made the investments that have become rich that have been moved by it. But is it a good price that some individuals might increase their wealth by moving hundreds of millions of people away from poverty and into the middle class?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114113	I can simply say that I agree with Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathisen. It's actually a very good feeling, so thank you for that kick-in. That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114122	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we move on to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114130	Thank you. We have seen that inequality in Denmark has been increasing for many years. From around the 1980s onward we have seen a fairly sharp increase in inequality in Denmark due to the deterioration of some of those who have least in our country unemployed, sick, students and people on the daily allowance, while at the same time we have seen that one tax rebate after another has been given to people with the highest incomes. The two things in combination have meant that inequality has increased in Denmark. Fortunately, we are still away from one of the more equal countries in the world, we certainly are, but developments have gone in the wrong direction. If you then have to look at what it takes to not only talk about dealing with inequality, but actually do something about it, you can start from that which among other things. French economic professor and well-known economist Thomas Piketty says. He says that there are at least three handles that are very important. It is a higher taxation of those with the highest income; it is a higher taxation of inheritance, where wealth goes from generation to generation in certain parts of society; and then it is a higher taxation of wealth. Therefore, it would be wise to reinstate a wealth tax in Denmark if it is not just a question of reducing inequality, but actually also of doing something about it, in a situation where inequality has actually increased dramatically in Denmark over many years. Then the Free Greens have come up with a proposal on how to do it, and I can say straight away that we do not agree with the model being proposed. We actually want a different model. We think that what we really need to do is to separate things a little. There is the taxation of housing where we have to have a fair tax on the social increases in housing prices that we have seen over the past many years, but we believe that this should be done by means of fairer housing taxation. The exact opposite has happened with the housing tax agreement that was made in 2017, where tax rebates were granted. By the way, it is an agreement that Enhedslisten was not involved, and neither was the SF nor the Alternative, which was very sensible, because that tax agreement alone takes up EUR 2025 10 billion. kr. from the room, which could have been used for green conversion, but they go to the landowners instead, as everything else equals are people who have more in our country. It is money that is taken from the example of the green transition. But the point is that a wealth tax for us is something other than housing tax. You have to separate it. We believe that financial assets should be looked at. It is held in banks, securities such as shares and bonds and also the value of unlisted shares. That is what we think a wealth tax should include. We also believe that a wealth tax should not include the taxation of pension savings, because it is also a special category. We also need to regulate this with separate rules, because it is about people saving up for their old age. So that is another problem seen in our optics. But we want a fortune tax. We have specifically proposed that a model be drawn up which says that with a fortune of over 3 million. kr. It is taxed at 1%, and according to a reply from the Ministry of Taxation, which I have received from a question I have asked, it will generate an additional revenue per year of approx. 1.9 billion kr. We think this is the right way to do it. So how are we going to deal with this proposal? One might say that we do not agree with the model that has been proposed and then we could vote red, but we think it is a pity to vote against something that has to do with a wealth tax. Then we could abstain, but it is also a little feeble when we talk about a wealth tax, which is something we are in favour of and think is important. So we are going to vote green on this proposal, but with the explanation of vote that if there were a majority in this Parliament supporting the motion for a resolution, we will have a discussion on what a wealth tax should look like, and in that discussion we will of course take to the table what we think a wealth tax should look like. With those comments and explanations of vote, if I may say so, we are in favour of the proposal and, if it is put to the vote, we intend to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114545	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114548	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would, of course, like to sign and thank the Enhedslisten for supporting our proposal for a wealth tax, and I would not rule out the fact that if the proposal does not come through, we are also very keen to sit with those who would like to introduce a wealth tax and see if the model could look different. However, for the Free Greens, it is absolutely crucial that it is not a flat tax, but a progressive tax, because the purpose for us is to combat inequality and to combat the big fortunes. It is not an end in itself that we should have a tax revenue that we can then spend on something else. It would also be awesome, but it is important that whoever has the most should pay the most. So I just want to hear Enhedslisten if it's also Enhedslisten's principle in relation to a property tax. In other words, as I understand it, Enhedslisten's proposal on property taxation is a flat-rate asset tax. Does Enhedslisten also want a progressive wealth tax because it is about fighting wealth, or a flat wealth tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114658	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114700	We are very willing to discuss this. However, the proposal made here by the Free Greens seems to me to have the problem that because it covers all assets, all values, and you set the limit at 3.5 million. kr., it will also hit people who live in a dwelling that is more than 3.5 million. kr. It is worthwhile, and what we think is important in relation to housing taxation, is that there should be higher and fairer taxation of the increase in the value of housing, but we must set that tax in such a way that people with low incomes are not taxed out of their homes by means of an ongoing increase in taxation, and I do not really think this proposal takes that into account. So it is just to say that if there were a majority in favour of this motion for a resolution, I sense a little that it is not there, but if there were, it would certainly be our objection to the model that has been proposed. We fully agree that it is those with the greatest fortunes, those who earn the most, who must contribute something more to the community after years of having received one tax rebate after another. That is only fair, and we have also seen an exploding inequality. We need to finance a restoration of welfare and we need to finance the green transition and we need money for it. We are facing a threatening climate change that is very important to deal with, and we need money for that. So we do not think that the proposal here is super well screwed up, but in relation to the progressive, I would say that yes, we are certainly willing to discuss that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114827	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114828	But what is just important to remember here is that the proposal hits us, and I have said that a few times before, i.e. about the richest 10%. of the Danish population. 90% The Danish people will not be affected by this proposal. And if you look at the 10%, it's 90 percent. of those who only have to pay 1%. in wealth tax. That is, if you have a home of 3.6 million. kr., you only have to pay 1,000 kr. in writing. - (DE) We in the Green Group believe that this is fair at least per year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114904	In other words, what is involved in wealth tax is that it is a tax which ensures that it is the very richest that will contribute something more, and in the model that I put forward, which is one that we have presented in various contexts, namely that we tax wealth of over 3 million. kr. with 1%, i.e. what you have of liquid assets, including unlisted shares, i.e. shares that are not on the stock exchange, we are not really just talking about the richest 10%.; we are talking about the one percent that owns the most, just in the model I am mentioning here, and they are the ones that sovereignly will have to contribute the most. So, of course, this is a socially fair way of doing a tax that is very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428114947	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has any comments. Here you go, Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115008	Well, then I also tried to do so in this Chamber, namely to see a motion for a resolution which provides an income of more than 40 billion. kr. in immediate effect, i.e. in the first year, unless the so-called wealthy Danes have not already moved themselves and their free values to a completely different country; a country without progressive taxation of both income and wealth; a country in which it pays to do more; a country in which we respect each other's efforts; a country in which politicians understand what drives the development of prosperity in a market economy. If you want to free companies from their owners; if you want a flight of capital; if you want to curb entrepreneurship, productivity and prosperity; if you want to fight wealth, you vote in favour of this proposal. Conservatives don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115102	There are no brief comments. Let's move on. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115123	As I said, this is a proposal from the Free Greens, which is about introducing a progressive wealth tax, the more money you have, the more you have to be taxed. And a step model for property tax has been proposed, and I will not go through the whole model, as it has been mentioned a number of times throughout the debate, but I would just like to mention that it already starts with fortunes of 3.5 million. kr., i.e. wealth in a house, pension savings, what you have in the account, possibly in shares, and it is actually quite early. I understand that not everyone gets hit by it, but it's still 35,000 kroner. a year, you have to deliver if you pay 1%. What does this mean for the Danes in general? Yeah, well, if you've tied your money into a pension, you can pay with it. If the value is in the tied house as it is for most people, you have to borrow the money if you have to pay this tax, because you can't pay with the bricks. That seems to me to be a bit of a challenge with the model at all. A wealth tax is an extra tax on investments • a tax that goes beyond the existing capital taxes, which are, after all, share tax and corporation tax • and so we already have an incredibly high tax on capital, which is already actually progressive. Our taxation of housing is progressive, the most expensive house pays a higher tax than the cheaper houses. If you make a lot of money on shares, you pay a higher rate of 42 percent. At a lower rate of 27 per cent, if you do not have so much income. So we already have quite a progressive tax, including a top tax on income tax, so we actually have what we want. So I do not quite understand what you really want to achieve with higher taxation on wealth alone. Because what will the consequence of that really be? Well, we can look back in time. At home, the Nyrup government abolished it in 1996 because it involved a fortune drain, that is, the money would move out of the country. And perhaps there is also a reason why we only, I think, five countries remain in the OECD which actually have a wealth tax. So, all other countries have now found out that this is not a good way of taxing, because the consequence is simply that the money is moving out of the country. What does that mean? Yes, it results in fewer investments in Denmark, and fewer investments result in fewer jobs, and if there is something that helps to ensure that we have equality in Denmark, it is precisely that people can get out to serve some money. Of course, other parameters are also involved. We have equal access to education, which, I believe, is one of the most important things to ensure more economic equality. The fact that you have the same opportunities to get a good education will also result in a higher income from life. So in general we in the Danish People's Party think this is a pretty bad idea and therefore we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115359	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115402	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am sorry that the rapporteur cannot support the proposal. I do not recognise the figure of 35,000, but that is not the question, because I want the rapporteur to answer the question I am asking now. So I would like to see the person who has a fortune of 3.6 million. kr. that cannot pay 1,000 kr. a year in property tax. That's what we're going to do. Can the rapporteur give me an example of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115430	No, it's a percentage bill. You say 1 per cent. of 3.5 million kr., 1%. of 1 million kr. is 10,000 kroner, 1%. of 3.5 million kr. is so 35,000 kroner. When the corresponding amount is 10 million. kr., it's 2%, and it can be up to 20%. of your fortune, if you have a fortune of 1 billion. kr. At least that's how I read it. It is on the front page of the resolution, and that is what I have dealt with. 1% of 3.5 million kr. is 35,000 a year and not 1,000 kroner. a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115501	It's wrong read. Investment tax starts from 3.5 million. kr. That is to say, anyone who has a fortune of less than 3.5 million. kr., is not included in the proposal, and thus is 90 per cent. of the Danish population not included. That is to say, we have from 3.5 million. kr. and up to 10 million. kr., when debt and deferred taxes are deducted, you have to pay 1%, which means that from 3.5 million. kr. to 3.6 million. kr. It's only 1,000 kroner. A year you have to pay. So the rapporteur has simply misread the proposal. Anyone with a fortune of less than 3.5 million. kr., doesn't have to pay anything in wealth tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115541	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115542	I totally agree that for people who have less than 3.5 million. kr. in house, pension and all added up minus debt, there is no taxation. But it is quite clear that it is 1% that you have to pay out of the 3.5 million. kr., and if you have 50 million. kr., it's 5 percent, and it's 100 million. kr., it's 10%. It's over a billion. kr., it's 20%. That is what has at least been written in the proposal, but then it may be that I have misread or that it is not very clear, but the model says quite clearly on the front page and also in column 2 of the proposal that one has to pay 1%. of your fortune, if you have more than 3.5 million. kr., and that's 35,000 if you take 1 per cent. of 3.5 million kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115619	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Mona Juul for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115620	Thank you. I just want to support the rapporteur on the platform. So, as it is described here, it is citizens with net worth of between 3.5 million. DKK 10 million kr., and this is double for married couples who are taxed at 1%. If that were not the intention of the proposal, we would never reach much more than 40 billion. kr. in total revenue. So there must be something wrong here, and if the proposers think that it is only DKK 1,000. A month ago, we might have to come back to the Chamber with another Free Green asset tax project. I hardly have the heart to suggest that, but thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115659	Thank you for your comment. That was not so much the question, but at least it is a confirmation of the way in which I have also read the resolution, i.e. it is DKK 35 000. But it may have to be understood in a different way. The authors of the motion for a resolution will have to explain this in the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115713	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115719	Thank you. This is probably the poorest proposal, and it is also the most unsympathetic and greedy proposal that I have had to deal with in the barely 3 years I have been in Parliament. The Intention of the Free Greens is quite clear. They say: Well, this isn't for us about revenue being generated or not; it's not important to us. What is important for the Free Greens is to take something that some other people have created. It is the definition of what is harmful when people come to parliament and have the opportunity to have such a power over others. You take just because you can. It is not because it has to generate revenue that you need for something, but simply because you want to take from other people who have created something. It's as unsympathetic and as greedy as anything can be. I also hear that the Greens say: yes, it may well be that this will damage the economy in general and that there will not be as much growth in society, but it is not important either. For the Free Greens, the agenda is that it does not matter that growth is falling. But what happens if there is no growth in society or if growth even falls? Yes, if we look at the current picture, where we have an inflation rate which in some parts of the world is around 7%, but which here in Denmark may hit somewhere between 3 to 5 per cent, then it means that the goods become more expensive; things become more expensive, and if you do not grow in the Danish economy at the same time, you get a problem. So this proposal is low on all the parameters on which a proposal can be measured at all. It is the expression of incredible greed and of being unsympathetic when one thinks that one has the right by means of means of power, by legislation from in here, to impose on oneself the fortunes and things of other people that they have acquired. When you even include things in the way you do, where you want to include both the value of housing and the stock, that is things that are not realized, then it completely falls apart. I do not think I have any words about how stupid this resolution is, so we cannot, of course, support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115956	Sir. Sikandar Siddique just made a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428115958	I understand that New Citizens think this is a stupid proposal. It is a party that wants a minimal state and wants favourable conditions for the rich. Yes, Free Greens want to fight big fortunes. Yes, Free Greens want to take the value that really, very many employees have created, but that only belongs to a small group of people up there. Yes, we want to redistribute that value to the employees, to society. Yes, we want to fight inequality. That is all I have to say to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120033	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120035	No, it is such a fun kind of mix between Islamism and communism that the Free Greens cultivate. And it's just harmful to any free society that wants to move forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120047	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120049	Yes, the debate is now beginning to become very important. I don't think I'll take part in that in any way. I think it's taking a completely wrong turn. I could also speak from this point of view of the Circuit Presidents of New Citizens who have no problem with having a Nazi background and are still in New Citizens. But I think it's all wrong. We are talking about fortunes here, and I would also like to appeal to the rapporteur to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120122	Yes, it's wrong on both sides, I would say. That's why we're moving on. Lars Boje Mathisen I guess I have to answer that. Yeah, when I say go ahead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120131	Thank you. When the rapporteur talks about New Citizens' policy and says factually wrong things. In our economic policy, an ordinary family gets somewhere between 5,000 kroner. and DKK 6,000. more net per month in your pocket. We allocate more money to tax relief and tax relief at the bottom. The economic policy that the Free Greens want to run is a communism, a state government and a withdrawal of the means that people have created, just to distribute them to other people. It's deeply, deeply harmful.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120210	Thank you. Then we move on... no, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen needs to stay right here. There is one comment I should like to make. Sir. Brian Bressendorff, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120221	Thank you. Before the rapporteur can run away completely, I would like to say that I think it has been nice that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has been preoccupied with the inequality agenda today, and I actually just thought I'd sign for that. Then I'll ask Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, if he agrees, that the tax freeze, as we experienced through the 00s and parts of the 2010s, especially in the housing sector, has been a major cause of the increase in inequality in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120254	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120255	Yeah. I am not generally opposed to increasing inequality. If you have uptimes in society then we do so after the financial crisis and it is progressing in society, you will have an increased inequality. What we saw during the financial crisis, when the Danish economy was damaged and not well, was that inequality was reduced. So, in relation to the issue of making it up, I would like to say that I am not the one who says in the Chamber that there must be no increase in inequality. One of the causes of increased inequality is also what we see in a situation where there are more pensioners and more students and where an increase in inequality is then created. So I don't mind. In fact, I find it a little embarrassing for the bourgeois parties that the recent reforms that were created and which were also creating inequality, for example. a lowering of the top tax limit and a lowering of corporate tax was created with a social democratic government. I'd like to thank you for that. I thought it was great. And I think it is a little telling of the crisis in which bourgeois Denmark has unfortunately been in that the recent top tax concessions have been made under a social democratic government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120353	Thank you. And here you go, sir. Brian Bressendorff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120355	Thank you for your answer. I appreciate the honesty that New Citizens do not believe that inequality is harmful to our societies. I would actually like to follow up a question on New Citizens' Policy which, in my opinion, will result in quite substantial cuts in the public sector here in Denmark. So I'm actually just gonna ask sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, whether it is his assessment that the cuts proposed by New Citizens will increase inequality among others. education, in health and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120429	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120430	No. And remember, there is a difference between something that increases inequality and something that creates extreme inequality. Extreme inequality can be dangerous for a society. But if we introduced the whole economic plan of the New Citizen, we would still be one of the world's most equal countries. So it's not a problem in itself. So, no, basically, I don't see a problem in increasing inequality. So, Denmark can increase the social inequality from 0.12 to 0.22 on the Gini Covenant, so it is not a problem in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120509	Thank you. Then there are no more comments, and there are no more rapporteurs from the parties LA and KD, I can see, so that is why it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428120525	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate on wealth taxation and inequality. Whether you support the proposal or do not support it, I think that we have come to that in our society that we need to have such a debate. When I stand here and present the Free Greens' proposal for a wealth tax, it is not because we want a steady flow of tax dollars to the Treasury so that we can have a little more to negotiate on the Finance Act. In fact, I am not particularly interested in how much money a fortune will exactly bring, because when we in the Free Greens propose a wealth tax, it is because we want to have a fight with the huge fortunes that are gathered with very few people in our society. Although Denmark has relatively high economic equality, the poorest half of the population owns just 5%. of the total values. The top community elite, the richest percentage, owns barely 20%. I dare stand here and laws were not the idea behind the welfare society when it was created. In the Free Greens we have no problem with some having more than others, but it is neither meaningful, justifiable, deserved or acceptable that so few people have so much more than they could ever need, while others have to go to bed hungry. 100,000 Danish households must skip meals because of the economy, and we must never accept that. That is why we are proposing a wealth tax where only the richest 0.01%. of the population has to pay more than 5%. in taxes on part of their fortune. So we are not talking about more people than we would have been able to invite everyone here in the Danish Parliament. There is no danger that those people will ever end up in economic poverty because they will have to give more back to the community than they are doing today. A high wealth tax on extreme fortunes will provide a unique opportunity to transform our business community into more democratic ownership, for there is no doubt that some of our most wealthy will have to sell some of their assets with our wealth tax, but in a country with a proud tradition of democratic ownership in the cooperative movement and with successful cooperatives I see nothing more obvious than again building a society on participation and democratic ownership. So why not redistribute the great values of our companies by giving employees a greater share in the value they create and converting companies to employees? The high concentration of the values of the few damages social mobility because it creates unequal opportunities in everything from education, physical and mental health and, in general, the prospect of a dignified and meaningful life. Here again, I would like to emphasise our privilege of being born in a welfare state which has ensured a high level of social mobility and more equal opportunities than in the vast majority of places in the world. I think we should be proud of that. But we fail the struggle they fought to create the welfare state if we sit back and wait to reach the abyss. We owe it to us to fight further for the dream of a society with equal opportunities for all. If we fail to make life easier and better and more fearless for our children and grandchildren and their children, we have failed our responsibility. There is no excuse for being satisfied just because the problems are still smaller in Denmark than so many other places, because things are going the wrong way. We have long been deceived by the fact that if we just make sure that the richest have as much money between their hands as possible, wealth will rain down on the rest of the population. But growth will not be prosperity in a society when it belongs only to the few. Instead, an excessive proportion of the population lives in debt or without a living chance of entering the housing market, while the fortunes at the top have crowned days. Money is power, and even if we do not live in an oligarchy, we must not go far back in time to find examples of the fur industry sitting at political meetings on the mink case, or a cement giant who has given party support to the governing party was given favourable conditions at the expense of the planet in a so-called climate agreement. That is not what I understand about democracy. When I imagine the society I would like to pass on to our children, it is a society in which the political direction is directed by the people rather than business interests, where the economy should not grow for the sake of growth at the expense of the planet and our equal opportunities, where we do not accept that fellow human beings go to bed hungry and when a few have more than they have ever been able to use. If the government really wants to see an end to the inequality promised after the elections, then we have to recognise that the whip of recent decades to the unemployed and low-paid and carrots to the most privileged is not the way. We need to create a real foundation for proper and fair redistribution by starting the battle with the big fortunes. Thank you very much for a good debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428121056	Thank you. No one has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428121108	The debate is open. It's the tax minister first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428121133	The motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party that we are about to discuss is about a desire to introduce tax exemptions for employers' paid gift cards, so gift cards that have a broad use option can be given in line with other company gifts. I should first like to make it clear that the starting point is that any income received from an employer is taxable for the employee. It should therefore not be possible to avoid the taxation of parts of its salary by having it paid in other than cash, for example. by a gift certificate. Thus, the general rules on the taxation of employee benefits are intended to tax remuneration in cash and in kind alike. But there are exceptions to this starting point. For example, small staff benefits, including Christmas gifts in kind, are only taxed if the total value of the staff item exceeds an amount of DKK 1,200 in 2022. In other words, there is a small limit to Christmas gifts etc. Gift cards with a wide use are equivalent to cash. As a result, employees who are given gift cards by their employer will, as a rule, be liable to tax on the gift card. This applies regardless of the value of the gift certificate, i.e. also if it falls below the DKK 1,200, which is of the de minimis limit. There may be cases where a gift card is tax-free on an equal footing with natural grants for employees, if the value is below the de minimis limit of DKK 1,200. It can, for example, be done. be if the gift certificate can be used exclusively for specific goods and thus has a limited use and, most importantly, that the gift certificate cannot be exchanged for cash. Whether a gift certificate can be regarded as a natural good and thus be covered by the de minimis limit for small staff benefits must then be decided on the basis of a concrete assessment, but within the framework I have described. Gift cards from an employer, as mentioned above, are, as a starting point, taxable for employees, and the rules on the taxation of gift cards are in line with the objective of the general rules on the taxation of employee goods to tax remuneration in cash and in kind alike. Since gift cards with a wide use are equivalent to cash, the proposal is contrary to the basic principle that only natural grants are subject to tax exemption for small staff benefits. In addition, the proposal will inevitably complicate the current tax rules. I know that the Danish People's Party rapporteur himself is also very concerned about this because, as I understand the proposal, there is a form of targeting of special gift cards for specific shopping centres or local trading associations. The head is shaken, and it may have been misunderstood here. With regard to the desire to strengthen local trade, as reflected in the comments on the motion for a resolution, this is, of course, a recital which I have great sympathy for and share. It is therefore already possible for companies to support local business without changing the current rules on the taxation of employee benefits. For example: companies can support the turnover of local businesses as part of the company's operations, and it is also possible to give in kind bought in local shops to employees without taxation, as I have just described in relation to the de minimis threshold. Thus, employees are not taxed if the value of such a gift or other minor employee benefit in kind does not exceed the de minimis limit of DKr 1,200. in 2022. Therefore, the government considers that there is no need to change the current rules on the taxation of employee benefits. In addition, there is no provision for funding of the proposal either. The Ministry of Taxation estimates that, and I have to say this: with considerable uncertainty, the proposal will result in an annual reduction in revenue after reflows and behavior of approx. 300 million kr. The government cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428121534	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428121537	First, I believe that the proposal has been misread. Just the thing about funding is about the proposal that Denmark's Restaurants and Cafés have made, which is different. And it really cost 300 million. kr. kr. Actually, I think the Ministry has the answer. But that is not what the proposal is about. The proposal is simply that we stick to the limit of DKr 1 200. Today. I did not say that you should spend more money on a typical Christmas present; it is only that you can spend it a little wider. So it is no more money for the employees, but instead of there being the restriction that you have to buy for example. a gift shop, which has imported goods from China... the selection can be four goods... now just provide a flexibility, so you can go down to your local city center and buy a gift certificate for the entire city association. It can be for the mening center, Kolding Storcenter, Fisketorvet, or whatever you think. It is therefore a greater flexibility for employees and actually more simple rules, so you should not have this interpretation of when it is a broad application and when it is a narrow application. So I think the Minister has misinterpreted the proposal if you think it is another proposal that costs 300 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428121636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428121637	It could be a bit of a battle for words; we'll have to take that over a cup of coffee. In fact, I do not think so, because in reality, and that is also what I said in my speech, a gift certificate can be given today as a staff allowance if it is given for a targeted, specific purpose and does not have a wider use option. And that is what this proposal is about. Then you can define what the broad scope is. Well, is it a stroke or a city center? Should it be in Horsens and not in Herning? And that is why I took the liberty of saying that I can feel that already there may be a little more complicated. But today the rules are quite clear. You can provide a staff benefit which is some form of in-kind or a gift certificate with a specific purpose • versus what is proposed here, where you then say that it may be wider and thus equal to cash. And so it must be taxed whether it falls above or below the de minimis threshold.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428121733	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428121734	It is true that you can give a gift certificate, but then it has to be very limited. In fact, I think the Minister's predecessor has said it may also be, it is the Minister himself who has given the example that if you give a gift certificate to a restaurant, it must be specified out what it is for a three course menu you choose. You must not get the menu and then choose from the ten items. No, it simply has to be very limited. So it's hard to imagine that if you make this model, it's gonna cost 300 million. kr., because the employee may choose on the menu instead of the owner of the company specifying which three course menu it should be. A gift certificate for a hotel chain is then not allowed, but if it is a specific hotel, you can. Again, it is a little difficult to imagine that it should give a huge bill because there is some freedom of choice given to the individual employee who can then choose where to spend the money, perhaps in a city centre or in a restaurant, or whatever you want. I think it seems like a regulatory simplification. Can the Minister not see that it is actually a good flexibility to give to both employees and companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428121827	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428121828	Well, I think we should help our companies and our employees. But to say that instead of getting 1,000 kroner. In cash, you get a gift certificate of DKK 1,000, you can use any place, a little at odds with what is actually the intention of saying that we have a small limit for in kind or other employee benefits that you can get in a Christmas present, where we have the basic principle that cash should of course be taxed as part of your income.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428121859	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. We shall begin with the rapporteur. Sir. Brian Bressendorff, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428121912	Thank you for the floor. We shall now consider a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, which calls on the government to submit a legislative proposal aimed at tax-free employers' gift cards. As a general rule, a gift certificate must be paid by an employer to an employee if the value of the gift card exceeds DKK 1,200. This is partly because gift cards with what is called a broad use option are equivalent to cash, and gift cards should not be able to be a substitute for paid pay. We should not open a door to circumventing the existing tax rules. The rules on taxing vouchers from an employer are in line with the general rules on the taxation of employee benefits. In this case, remuneration in cash and in kind is taxed equally. Because gift cards, which have a broad utility, are precisely similar to cash, this proposal goes against the very basic principle. At the same time, there is a concern to take into account the complexity of our tax rules, which will increase with this proposal, as I read it. Social democracy recognises the good intentions behind the proposal in the desire to strengthen local trade. The wording of the proposal may seem to me to give the impression that there are no possibilities for companies to support their local trade and business within the existing tax rules. And that is not the case. Businesses can, for example: even today support local businesses by simply buying goods in the individual business for employees without taxation. Finally, as I see it, there is no specific funding for the proposal, and for these reasons the Social Democrats cannot support it. And I welcome from the Enhedslisten, who also does not support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122116	There are a few comments. Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122119	I'm just sitting there thinking quite logically that if the problem is that you kind of have a fear that this gift card with a wider use option is to align with cash, couldn't you just demand that it shouldn't be exchanged for cash? Will you not just be able to make a scheme to say that you can make a gift card with a wide use which can be used for all hotels within a given chain and not the given hotel, which was the good example that came before, but that it cannot be exchanged for cash? Weren't we beyond that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122149	I believe that legislation must be very specific. With a broad use option, I quickly imagine that we are going to be able to use it throughout the city, which means that no matter what you go out and consume, whether it is food, a hotel stay or whatever else you consume in your household, we will end up using the gift card there. At least that is what I fear, that is to say, we end up with the possibility that instead of getting a bonus or a general salary, you can be paid with or other form of a gift card with a broad use option, which you can then use instead of an ordinary earned salary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122228	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122230	But even today you can give a gift certificate for example. Net instead of salary, so it is impossible to completely avoid the risk. Sometimes we just have to remember to have a citizen's perspective: what does it matter to the citizen? Wouldn't this really be a very nice change for the citizen? Instead of trying to hit everyone with the same specific gift, this is actually possible. You want to please your fellow workers when you give a gift. That is the purpose. So everything else equal will probably increase the joy of the employee to get a gift and increase motivation in relation to the work you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122306	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122307	I really think that we are just making it possible for companies with the de minimis threshold that exists today. There are a number of possibilities for giving gifts, be it Christmas gifts or other benefits to your employees, and it is actually a broad palette. But you're right, we're not out in a legislative area with what should we call it completely free play. I also have to say that in my world it is going to be a lot of reminders that it will be a substitute for ordinary payrolls. I don't want us to go there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122339	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122341	The rapporteur says that it must not replace pay, because you are afraid that it will be a broader indication of things you can use a gift certificate for or get a Christmas present for. I agree with that, and that is precisely why we have agreed that these are the existing rules. There is a small limit of DKK 1,200. It is very specifically written into the proposal that it should not be exchanged for cash, precisely so that it cannot be the case that a gift certificate of DKK 10,000 can be paid out. and then say, "Then you get it instead of the pay." You can't do that with this. So does the rapporteur not recognise that we have actually tried to bring it into line with the existing rules, in other words the same safeguards that we have today? It is just with that addition that you can actually get a gift certificate for a city association or a building market chain, or whatever it may be, where there are many products you can buy in, for example. a building market, instead of it being exactly a drill for which a gift certificate is given. That is, of course, the point, that is to try to make some flexibility so that you can actually use the money locally, if you want, or provide the service to the employees, that they can actually choose from a larger palette of products.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122441	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122443	In fact, I would like to admit to the questioner that I have not read the proposal a hundred percent, as Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. But having said that, I think that whatever comes into this with the broad scope of application. Even if it would be a limit of 1,200 kroner, as I understand Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, you will still get into the problem that you can then give 1,200 DKK. instead. And it does away with all that basic principle that all income should be taxed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122515	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122517	Then I must understand that you want to get rid of the 1,200 crown limit that is today. Today we have made such a small limit of DKK 1,200. to say: Fair enough, as an employer you can give a Christmas present or an apartment present at a silver wedding, or whatever it may be, of DKK 1,200. without having to pay taxes. I guess it's knowing that somebody might want to cheat on it. But that does not change on the border. We are just giving the flexibility to issue a gift certificate which cannot be exchanged for cash. It is actually quite clear in the proposal, both the border and what is not allowed. So it might have helped the debate if the rapporteur had read the proposal before we debated it. But does it put it in a slightly different light for the Social Democracy, now that you are told what it is actually about, in relation to what you thought it was about?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122557	I would hurry to say that the motion for a resolution has been read. Whether it is understood in a different way than the Danish People's Party wanted, we can take a cup of coffee afterwards. No, I really do not think that this is in any other light, because I still think that the proposal does away with the general principle that all income should be taxed. Then we have a trivial limit, which is quite clear in that it is specific uses to which it can be given. And I must be honest and say that I really think that the system is working very well as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122631	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we move on to Mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen, Left. Excuse me, sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen. There are so many alternates who have just entered all the parties, so I misunderstood. Sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428122652	Thank you for that, President, and thank the authors of this motion for a resolution. In the Left, we think that this is a good proposal that we find a great deal of perspective in. As a former employer, I can at least confirm that it is not always easy to find the right Christmas present for the employees, and I think it is a pity and that it is a waste of resources to give a gift to the employees of a good heart, and that the gift ends up at the back of the closet or for sale on the Blue Newspaper around Christmas time. We see that all too much. The motion for a resolution here will not allow a gift certificate to be exchanged for cash, but it will be regarded as a natural asset and will fall under this fiscal principle that natural grants are tax-free as long as the amount does not exceed a defined limit. It's 1,200 kroner. Now, and it is also written into the motion for a resolution. The remarks made in the motion for a resolution mention a city gift card as an example, and in the Left we think it is a very good idea and that it is a good example to use what we want to achieve here. Because we know that very many Danish companies want to support the local retail trade where they are now located. They want to support local restaurants or local experience companies, and they want to do so when they give these employee gifts. But these, allow me to say a little out-of-date rules that we have today, unfortunately make many companies today opt out of local opportunities, and then they choose instead of the slightly more easily accessible gift portals that have appeared over recent years and have gained a great deal of ground. The Minister said that there are exceptions where a gift certificate can be given tax-free, but I think one can ask oneself: are the rules really up-to-date? In any case, I would like to conclude that if they are not out of date, they are at least intricate to deal with as a business owner. I am not going to go into the exceptions, because they were mentioned by the Minister, so I have to skip them, but the situation right now is actually that a gift certificate cannot, as a rule, be given tax-free only because it is electronic and may be used in all the shops of the pedestrian street, but a gift from a gift portal with up to 25 different gifts, from which employees are free to choose, is to be regarded as a tax-free gift, not to mention a gift portal that may be established abroad or somewhere else, and so the company is not given the opportunity to support locally as desired. It is time to modernise this legislation, which is why we are also pleased with the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. In relation to the financing, and the Minister also mentioned a little, the Left estimates that a tax-free gift certificate has no such revenue significance, because there is no economic difference between giving gifts in physical form worth DKK 1,200 or giving a gift certificate on the same amount, as well as marking a gift card that cannot be exchanged for cash. This is about revenue, costs, etc. We would like to see something more worked out in committee and I could understand from the Minister that he invited the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for coffee; there the rapporteur of the Left would like to go to that cup of coffee so that we can clarify this, because it is a prerequisite for us that funding is of course also under control and so on. But the Left has great sympathy for the resolution, and it is our intention to support the proposal, but with the little apes dabei, that we must have the funding completely under control.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123112	Thank you, sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen. There's a comment from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123118	I would like to thank the Left for their support and also thank them for having actually read and understood the proposal as it is meant and written; it also helps a little in the debate. I think it is quite fair that we should be delving into the funding of the committee's work. We will do so, and also gladly along with the Left over a cup of coffee, if it can help get the proposal through. As far as funding is concerned, I just want to know whether the Left does not agree that if today a gift certificate is given to a typical gift shop that imports goods from typical China and elsewhere, it is the ones you can choose from and that it is, of course, to a large extent money out of the country, unlike if you can go and buy it locally it can be a restaurant, the local building market, Matas, or whatever it is, where it is, after all, pay locally, and sometimes it is also, if it is a restaurant, money directly out into the community. So could it not be imagined that there was also some backflow which actually means that this could give more money in Danish society instead of buying goods imported from outside?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123208	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123209	I think that is quite an exciting thought to take in too. I do not think there is a tradition of this when we are dealing with the state spreadsheets, that is to say also to think about the type of financing with them. But we are, in fact, open to the fact that I was just about to say anything in relation to this proposal, because we are sympathetic to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123227	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123229	Then I will also just in my second round of roses left that you have actually helped to clarify this issue. After all, the tax rapporteur from the Left, Louise Schack Elholm, has asked questions about what was done in Norway, and they have actually solved that problem with a broader application. There they say, in fact, that in Norway a gift certificate which cannot be exchanged for cash is also considered to be a natural grant given as a gift. So with regard to the tax principle which the Socialists are leaning on, a different principle has been adopted in our neighbouring country of Norway; they have chosen a model which is like what I am proposing here. So it is just to ask whether the Left cannot confirm that it is not a new model we have come up with, so that the tax principles are completely thrown off the table, but that it is similar to what you have in Norway.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123309	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123311	Yes, I would like to confirm to the rapporteur that we in the Left too find it difficult to see that there is such a system difference between dealing with this proposed solution and seeing the models that we know today. And, of course, I accept the recognition and also pass it on to our rapporteur in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123331	Thank you. There are no more comments. That's why it's now, sir. Jan Bjergskov Larsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123341	Thank you, President. I will jump to the end immediately and say that in the SF we cannot support the proposal. It is again on the basis of the memo from the Ministry of Taxation which has just estimated that this will give a smaller revenue of 300 million. kr. In the debate I have heard that there may be doubts about it, so the further work of the committee must, of course, somewhere try to confirm it. From the SF we would say that it is a sympathetic idea that an employer can support the local business community by giving his employees some kind of gift voucher for the local shops. Once again, however, it is more important for us not to lose tax revenue on the basis of it. If there were no consequences for the proceeds, then we would like to enter into a dialogue about supporting the proposal or extending the proposal or extending the proposal. Basically, we think that it is a sympathetic thinking that a gift certificate can be given which can somewhere support the local business community. But it is also important for SF that we find the balance, i.e. whether it is a gift card, an employee gift, and that it does not become a form of pay. This has been important to us in many other contexts, as has the case here. So pay is pay and pay must be taxed. So we need to find a level for this. So immediately we cannot support it, but we look forward to the work of the committee. It is not me, but it is Mr. Carl Valentin, who is going to be in charge of this and I dare promise that we would like to have a cup of coffee around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123531	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123533	Thank you for the positive tactics in the rapporteur's speech, after all. What the Ministry has calculated is a proposal similar to what we had on a temporary basis during the Corona, compared to the fact that, in addition to the tax-free gift of this twelve hundred crowns, one can occasionally give as a Christmas present, during the coronatide, one could give such a gift certificate to go to a restaurant, get experiences and other things. It cost 300 million. kr., but that is not what is being proposed, i.e. putting a new system upstairs of DKK 1,200. extra. Because that's what's been calculated. That's the old model. There may be a lot of good sense in doing that again... that's not it. But that's just not what's in this proposal. It is simply a matter of issuing a gift certificate which is not allowed to be paid out as cash. Because I agree with the rapporteur that it should not be instead of pay. So now that you know it and this is shown in the debate, does it make the SF a little more positive in their position when it comes to going into committee work?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123624	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123626	Yes, it puts us in a more positive position to discuss it and get that perspective in committee work. What is the problem now basically? Now the rapporteur of the Left mentioned that it has been difficult. For many years now, I have been a leader, a manager, and I would say that I do not think I have been limited. I don't think it's been hard to give some kind of corporate gift. So it also depends on what angle we're looking at it from.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123655	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123657	Just to catch the ball in relation to the last: it is not to say that it is difficult today. I really think there are a lot of town councils out there who talk about how they can strengthen their local city centres on an annual basis and make sure that there is actually some cohesion inside the centre, in the square and elsewhere. This could, of course, provide an incentive for you to actually choose to say: we would rather support a local shop, a local building market, a restaurant, whatever it may be, you decide for yourself instead of buying access to a gift shop, which is easy. But then the money typically goes to imported goods from abroad. So it is not to say that it has to be easier, but it is to provide an incentive to support the local. I want to know if SF isn't in on it too, that may be a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123736	Now my comment was on the rapporteur of the Left, so it is clear that the questioner cannot answer it. With the promise that we will have the funding covered in it, I would say that we are going to have a positive and open discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123754	Thank you. There are no more comments. Sir. Rune Lund is not here, so this is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428123810	Thank you very much to the Danish People's Party and Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær to come up with this very good resolution which highlights an issue which I must admit I personally was not aware of. If you have to explain to the Danes the logic that, if you give a sheet or lamp as a gift, there is not taxation on it, but if it is a gift certificate which has a broad use, then it should be taxed, then I would say that I think the Danes have a fundamental difficulty in seeing the logic of it. I know, for example, that during Christmas I cannot say whether it was this year, or whether it was a few years ago, I gave some lamps of a Danish glass artist as a gift to their employees: 33,000 lamps for 16,500 employees. You don't need to know a lot of employees in Novo Nordisk until you know that there is a little a standing joke on the staff that you should be quick to put the gifts for sale on Den Blå Avis if you don't want them. For what they can see is that the Blue Newspaper is being flooded with the gifts they receive. Because when you have to give gifts to 16,500 employees, it goes without saying that there will be a lot of people who may not just stand and lack a pair of lamps in that size and shape. What happens next? Then they are put up for sale on the Blue Newspaper, and then people get cash for them instead, and then we get exactly what we don't want, namely that it is cash that ends up being published, instead of it being a concrete physical gift. So I think that is just a small example of the fact that the model we have today is not brilliant either, because it can certainly also lead to the end of being the said way of paying. So in Conservatives we have very much sympathy for this resolution. I guess we're very much in the same place as the Left in relation to this whole economy thing. It seems that there is an obvious discrepancy between this and the 300 million. kr. When I hear the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, I would like to say that I think it is a very good response to the fact that this is a different calculation based on a different proposal from this specific one. We reserve the right to draw ashore if there are any calculations that give us cold feet. But from the outset we have very much sympathy for this resolution, which draws attention to a central issue, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124028	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124030	That is a good example that is also mentioned, because that is the challenge today. Although we are all opposed to cash being paid out, it is, in fact, typically in cash today. That's what's a little paradoxical about it. I would like to mention that I think it is quite fair that one would, of course, like to have quality assurance funding in it. I would also just like to mention, and it is also for the rest of you in the Chamber, that it may also be that it may end in a report. Just to be serious about that, it doesn't necessarily have to be what I'm writing here, which is supposed to be what's coming out. So if we all agree on the issue and want to look at it further, it could be a joint report that we could land this with. That would be quite fine for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124101	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124103	It is quite obvious that there is a joint report in which we will hopefully be able to go a step further if there is also a slight response from the Minister in terms of recognising that there is a problem here. I'm not quite sure I've heard that kindness, but let's finally try to test if it can be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124117	Thank you. The Minister has asked for a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124127	I will be brief, because it is not to repeat the debate, but just something factual. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has sometimes said that it must be because we have calculated something wrong and not what lies in the resolution. I would just like to make it clear, for the sake of good order, that what I am mentioning with the 300 million. kr. And what lies in the stomach of the calculation that is subject to uncertainty, and I also said this in my speech, is that, of course, there will be an extension of the scope available today. So there is, for example. As a basis for the assessment of revenue, 75% of the total cost of the project is to be borne by the Member States. that private employees receive a gift certificate worth an average of 600 DKK, and I also said that it is, of course, based on significant uncertainty. But just for the record: we have therefore not been sitting and calculating it on the basis of another proposal, but on the basis of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124225	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124227	I had some doubts as to whether questions could be put to the Minister again, but that is fair enough. I think it is a good thing that we will be able to clarify this further in the committee's work. As I have understood the more far-reaching model that has been put forward, where you actually continue with the model that was in the covid-19-time, so that you could give 1,200 DKK. Or was it 1,000 kroner? at a restaurant or something, it cost 350 million. kr. So it's a little weird that this, where it's the same criteria... $1,200, it's just a little wider use, and it's not paid out in cash... it's supposed to cost $350 million. kr., or it was 300 million. kr. The company mustn't give bigger gifts. It's not like all of a sudden you give a gift for 2,000 kroner. It's exactly the same gift, now it's just a wider application option. I look forward to seeing how it has been achieved that it should cost 300 million. kr. that you can buy the same as today, but just use it is on some other things so that it has to cost so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124317	Yes, the assumption is that there will be more people who will get gift cards because it will be equal to cash, and thus there will be less revenue in the scheme, precisely because it is not a gift in kind but a gift in the form of cash that more will be able to get, and there is then a calculation on it. I'd like to answer that in writing too. But it is just to make it clear that it is on the basis of the conditions set out in the motion for a resolution, and not all sorts of other things, that this calculation has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124345	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124347	But the question is whether it is equated with cash. In Norway, they have chosen to say the opposite in their principles. There it is not cash, but still away in kind, well enough with a wider use option, but still not cash. If you take the example given by the Conservatives with Novo Nordisk, it turned into cash. That's the opposite argument. If you make a wider use option so that people can actually buy what they want, instead of something they don't want, for which they then sell and get cash, are such things included in the calculations? There is also the fact that you not only buy it in a gift book that imports the goods, but that you actually spend the money locally, so they stay in Danish wages and other things. I mean, all these things are backflowing into the calculations that say it costs 300 million. kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124424	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124425	The logic is that more people will get a gift certificate, because not everyone gets a staff allowance of up to DKK 1,200 today. So the logic here is that if there are more people who get a gift card with a wider use which you can go out and use for anything, it will of course have less revenue, because, as the rules are today, it is equal to pay or cash that you are taxed. That means converting something that is for taxation into not being taxed. And it has less revenue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124459	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister this time. Then it must be the rapporteur for the proposers. I think there is a lack of rapporteurs. But here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428124525	I had not just caught that there were no more rapporteurs, but then I got two rounds with the minister instead. Then it has to compensate for it; it is positive enough. Well, we never actually get that, so that's fine. When an employer gives a gift today and it is typically a Christmas present that we have also talked about to their employees, it can be given tax-free if it has a total value not exceeding DKK 1,200. I think we all support that. Many people are happy about that out there, and many companies are taking advantage of it. However, there are a number of restrictions for employers. Basically, it can only be given if it is a physical gift with a limited use option. If you wish to give a gift certificate • you may actually have a very limited use of it today in order to be tax-free for the recipient. That is also what has emerged from the debate. At the same time, you can't cash it for cash. And I think that is actually fair enough, because it is not something that should replace pay. So it is not to try to change the basic tax principle. Of course, income from wages must be taxed. Even if it is something of natural value, it is fair to be taxed. It is also on the free car and other things; they are taxed. So fair enough, that's not where I'm going with this. The problem is that if an employer instead wants to give a gift certificate that can be used for the purchase of goods in the shops of the local pedestrian street or in a larger shopping centre or just has a wider use option, one cannot do so. So we think that is a little awkward and actually rather bureaucratic. This limits the opportunities for employers to give vouchers to employees. And why do we really do that? In Norway, as I have said in this debate, this is not the case. I think it is a good thing if you want to support, for example. the local shop life, if a company will support that there is actually some trade around the communities where they now live. I guess it's only good that we give them the opportunity to do so, and also that employees are given greater freedom of choice. Mrs Mette Abildgaard mentioned this very well. You buy 18,000 lamps, where there may not be a need for the 10,000 of them, and then you get rid of them on the Blue Newspaper and sell them for cash, and the market price will probably be quite low if there are suddenly 10,000 of the same lamp. Had a gift certificate been given, some would have bought a lamp, and some might have put some more money in themselves, which would have increased revenue. It must also immediately cause the bill to fall for the state. Well, I think it's in every way good for the living city centre, and that people will support the local, is something that takes up a lot out there. I myself have been on the city council, and I actually believe that every town council around the country has a regular discussion on how to support our local city centres. Roundtom in the companies mentioned that Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen, who has himself been director of a company in the Herning area, wants to support the local trading environment if you can. And that's where this is just gonna help tighten your legs, and I was hoping that we could help loosen that up. Because what is happening today is that, not because it is difficult, you buy yourself into a gift shop, where you can then perhaps choose four different options, and then the employees have to choose from it. These are typically products imported from China or elsewhere, i.e. money and goods coming from elsewhere. The money's getting out of the country, and that's kind of a shame. There it would be much more valuable if you could buy a gift certificate with a wider use and use it on e.g. a local dining place where it is, of course, a large part wages that are part of the budget. It is Danish wages and Danish money that gets back into society. So I actually think that this would help to increase consumption. Well, you get a gift certificate of 500-600 kroner. to the local city centre, you might want to spend a little extra money to get exactly the gift you want and what you want and not be restricted by it. So I think that it can give some extra revenue locally and thus also some more return to the state. Again to clarify, as I did a few times in my brief remarks, I would like to say that with this we do not propose to change the limit of DKr 1 200. It's the same thing. We only want to change it so that you can actually use a gift card with a wider use. We also state in the motion for a resolution that it should not be exchanged for cash, because we fully agree with the principle that it should not replace wage income. If you get it paid out as cash, there is also a greater chance that you start cheating on it. And that's not what we want with this. It is simply that you can have a better opportunity to use it, for example. local, but also other. So the advantage is that it benefits Danish trading cities, allows local support and provides more flexibility for employees. And I actually think that we should be able to agree on that. In fact, I am also listening, and I would like to thank you for having a broad recognition that this is something that you want to take part in looking at, and I think it is quite fair that we should get the funding into committee work. And I can also live with the fact that we will end up with a potential report if it can enable us to get on with it in one way or another. So thank you for a good debate at least, and then I look forward to having a dialogue in committee on how we might land this in some way that we can all see ourselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428125004	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428125017	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428125044	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you for focusing on an important area, namely organ donation. This is important because there is still a need to strengthen organ donation so that we ensure sufficient donors to enable vital transplants, because we know that organ donors save lives. Therefore, it is vitally important that we get more Danes to decide in the most appropriate way whether they want to be organ donors. I will come back to that, but just a little bit about the situation in Denmark. We in Denmark have what is called informed consent for organ donation, and this means, in practice, that organs can be removed for transplantation from a deceased person once the donor or relatives have given their consent. We also have a study from the Danish Health Authority from 2021, where they carried out such an attitudinal study of the Danes' attitude to the various issues. I'll just try to dive into some of those numbers, because that's very interesting. 84% of the Danes over 15 years of age have a positive or very positive attitude towards organ donation, and only under 2% say they have a negative attitude. It is the case today that all Danes over 15 years of age can decide on organ donation and make it known in at least three ways: You can register your position in the Organ Donor Register.I recommend that you do so.You can also fill in the red donor card, and then you can inform your relatives orally. The study shows that about two out of three Danes, i.e. 64 per cent, have expressed their opinion on organ donation in one of these three ways, but that is only about one in four Danes. So we have a relatively large proportion that has taken a position on organ donation but has not recorded their position, so there is real room for improvement. We also see that we have a third of the Danes who, at least in 2021, had not yet expressed their opinion on organ donation, i.e. 36%, and then let us look at them. Half of them, 51.1%, have not taken a position, so they do not know whether they want to be an organ donor, and according to the Danish Center for Organ Donation, studies show that doubt is in fact the main reason for the lack of a position. We know, of course, that such doubts are very much about feelings and that there can be many aspects at stake. I read some of them up: It can be bodily integrity, existential considerations, giving of control or the like. And for some, it must also be said that the doubts may be caused by mistrust or outright misunderstanding. We have to do that. It is not certain that the group of doubters, which is therefore relatively large, will be motivated by having to take a position, for it does not necessarily answer the emotional and existential considerations that characterise this group. The second biggest reason why one third of the Danes have not taken a position on organ donation is, according to the Danish Center for Organ donation, that it had not just been done. As regards the group which had not just done so, it must be said that it is clear that that group will respond positively to an invitation, as stated in the proposal, to take a position. So although most Danes have taken a position on organ donation, not everyone finds it easy. So the big question we have to ask ourselves and which we are asking today is: How do we get the group of doubters to take a position? That is, in fact, at the heart of today's motion for a resolution, namely compulsory position or not. The question is how the group, which finds it difficult to take a position, will react if they are required to take a position in the meeting with the government, and according to the Danish Center for Organ Donation, it has not been investigated in a Danish context how the Danes will react to being asked to take a mandatory position on organ donation and register their decision in the Organ Donor Register. There may be a risk that more people will feel pressured to take a position, make a quick and perhaps ill-considered decision, take a position without talking to their close friends about considerations and attitudes and say no to organ donation, because it can then be experienced as the safe choice. If the Danes are to decide on organ donation in a context where it doesn't make sense to them, there may be a risk that more people choose this no to organ donation, and we should pay particular attention to that. If you then choose a 'no' vote, then it is impossible for the hospital staff to bring up the question of organ donation with the relatives of a deceased person who has not taken a position. So I fully agree with the proposers' desire to get more people to take a position on organ donation, but the point here is that we really should do it wisely and that we should be careful in the way we do it. It would simply be extremely unfortunate if the large, large group of doubters were to end up saying no in an hasty, perhaps ill-considered and perhaps uninformed decision. After all, we have implemented a number of initiatives to strengthen the area of organ donation. A few years ago, we launched yes, it was probably last year that digital health card as an app, where you are encouraged to register as a donor directly, and it had a huge success. In one month we received nearly 52,000 new registrations in the organ donor register just during the first month. And what does that mean? That's kind of what we usually get in a whole year, so it really had a big effect. But it was a call and not something that was mandatory and the possibility of registering its position via the digital health card, and that is what is called a pop-up message that comes in the first time you log in, so I think that there are some good results that you can build on when it comes to encouraging the Danes to take a position without it having to become mandatory. Then we have also seen in Corona that there are many effective ways, including some new ways that the public can provide information to the public, and these are experiences that could be transferred to the organ donation area. If I am to mention some other implemented initiatives, I can say that in 2019 it was possible for the 15-17-year-olds to sign up for the Donor Register, and in the same year it was possible to donate bodies anonymously. Then an agreement was also reached in 2019 between the then government and several parties to resume organ donation after Circulatory death, dcd ^ that is what is also known as cardiac death and the Danish Health Authority has set up a working group that is preparing professional recommendations on how organ donation from cardiac death can be resumed. It is logical, of course, that it is expected to strengthen the transplant area and lead to more donors, because the death criterion for when organs can be removed for transplantation is, of course, extended in this way. To return to the final point of the resolution, I would like to say that it is the view of the government that there is currently a lack of knowledge about the consequences of mandatory positions and whether this will result in more organ donors or perhaps the opposite. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution as it stands here, but I would like to say that I will invite the parties in what is termed ethical circles to continue discussions on how to strengthen efforts in the area of organ donation, to help ensure that we make the right decision when it comes to getting more people to decide on organ donation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428125905	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428125912	Thank you. This debate on organ donation has been going on for a long time, and there is also a citizens' proposal on organ donation. But I just have one question. The Minister cannot support this resolution, but what is the government's own solution? So now I hear that the Minister will invite us to a meeting, and that is a good thing; we in the ethical community are looking forward to being invited to do so. But if the Minister could decide, how does the Minister view it in the future in terms of ensuring that more people simply make an active choice about organ donation? And then perhaps the Minister can also tell us when the Minister intends to call the rapporteurs whether it will be in this session?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130009	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130010	I think we should do this with all the input we can get from those who work with it. And we do have health professionals, we do have doctors who work with exactly this, who are fighting a fight to get and actually also succeed with the organ donation to work, also in relation to those people who have not yet taken a position, but who have a good conversation with the relatives succeeding with it. And then we'll have to hear about these conversations. None of us politicians are part of that. It is extremely important that these talks take place with the highest level of confidence and security. So let's listen to them. I would think that would be quite obvious and look at how we can strengthen their work and thus strengthen the opportunity to get more people to take a stand and benefit from the bodies that are, of course, the difference between life and death for those who lack them. And yes, it will be in this collection that the ethical circle will be invited.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130113	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130114	Okay, well, it's nice that the minister wants to enter into a dialogue about this. But the Minister also says that people want to listen to others, and there are, among other things, those who want to listen to them. a father who has made a citizen's proposal whose daughter unfortunately did not have a body and died. That's why there's a big focus on this. So how is the Minister going to ensure that this is optimized so as far as possible ensure that there are organs for donation so that you do not risk dying when you are on the waiting list?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130157	Well, in fact, I think that in recent years there have been a number of things that we can do that we have not really been aware of. Most recently, when we made the digital health card, i.e. as an app, we decided that there was such a pop-up window, and it was therefore thousands of people who said: It is obvious that I will just get the answer to it when I am already updating my health card on the phone. So there are many opportunities to do better than we do today. And every time we do that, more people get to choose... we potentially save lives too. So let us do it, but let us do it in a way that ensures that we do not run the risk of doing something that is counterproductive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130234	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130236	Thank you to the Minister for giving priority to the time to be here today to discuss this important matter. There is much we do not know in this area, and the Minister may become a little bit of a traveler in speculation. And I'm not saying that to be rude, but it's more to say that we can choose to deal with the ignorance we have in several different ways. There is the point of interpreting it as if you would say no if you were confronted in relation to taking a position. Now that we are looking at the figures for how many Danes are actually in favour of organ donation, there is much in the figures that would argue that you would say yes, that is to say that you would actually be positive. I'd like to hear about something from the minister. Patient Association Organ donation Yes, please! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution has been very positive. They call it a game changer and say it's something like this that needs to be done. They wanted to do more than that, I have to be honest and say, but they call it a good step on the way. Is the Minister not willing to listen to the demand there is? So I also need to know what the alternative is to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130332	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130334	I am very willing to do so, and it is true that some will go further than this. But all we can do to get more people to register, I think we should do. I myself appeal to you to say yes to organ donation, but it is your own personal choice. But there are, I would say, some issues here, and I would really like to appeal to dialogue. It's not like I have to travel around with speculation. But then let us hear those who are in the dialogue. It is simply people who work primarily in the large hospitals in Denmark. They are in dialogue and ensure that it works with relatives. What does it mean if there's been a cross off the street? But what does it mean if there's been a cross off the street I haven't taken a position on that yet? What's that gonna mean? Because it would also be an opportunity with this proposal. There we need input to say whether it will make their conversation easier or whether it will actually make it harder. We need to know these things, I think, before we decide whether this is the way we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130437	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130439	The Minister's main argument against the motion for a resolution is that it may push some people into saying "No thanks" when they are asked to take a position. But then it is as if the Minister is perhaps forgetting that it is actually in this motion for a resolution that there must still be an opportunity to respond. So those who are in doubt and who do not want to be pressured into making a choice that they are not ready for can choose the "Don't know" category. So this is going to capture that one third who didn't just get it done. The Minister himself pointed out that they exist. So how can it be true that you will be pressured into a no, when you can actually just choose to say "Don't know"?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130512-2	This is precisely where we need to discuss it with those who are in charge of these talks. Because there will then be a new situation, and it will be quite real, namely that there are relatives, it is typically something that comes suddenly when it comes to organ donation, it is about wondering if the person has written it. No, the person has answered "Don't know, " and what does that mean for the next of kin's desire to say yes? We can't know that, but we have to listen to the people who are in charge of the conversation. That is exactly the situation I think we should be sure we have thought through properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130550	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130553	Thank you. Thank you for your reply, too. I therefore agree that this is not an easy matter, and they testify many times when we have discussed it here in the Assembly, of course, but if the reason for saying that we are not going to use that solution is that there is a risk that someone will say no for the sake of safety, we will also have to look at the fact that it is also a challenge that someone will not get done because they have simply postponed the decision and there are simply too many people who have not taken a position, even though there are many people who say that they are so positive. So there is a potential to do something more, which will also help some of the patients who will need treatment at some point. So it doesn't make sense that we are at least trying, and I know it's difficult, but try to see if we can make a method that makes people actually take a position, regardless of the fact that there will be someone who will say no, but at least takes a position?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130702	Yeah, I think it does. That's all that can be done. It is so heartbreaking and in every way really great, great tragedies when we have some people, and that happens, unfortunately, who are waiting for organs and who do not get them, and then we can see that we could have used some organs, but because you have not just answered, we do not get it. We must also be better at optimising that we find those patients where it can make sense, but while we are talking here, there are people who are on that waiting list, and this is about life and death for them. So that's all that can be done. I would also like to say that we are now having a meeting of the ethical community, but my idea is precisely to invite, if the rapporteur is interested in it, those who are standing out there in hospitals and talking to relatives to ask them: what do you need? What makes your work easier and better and makes your family decision easier? and of course also: What can we do to communicate better and appeal to take a position?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130809	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130809-2	In fact, I also think that this is very much a matter of relatives, because if you have not taken a position, what a very, very large proportion of citizens have unfortunately still not done, it also means that as a relative you will have to make a decision, you may have to say either 'yes' or 'no', without knowing what the citizen in question actually wanted. And I think that must be one of the most terrible situations to be faced if you are a relative in this context, and the argument for thinking in supposed consent, which this proposal is not really about, is precisely that there is a potential, for 80%. The Danes actually think this is a good idea. This is a middle ground where we ensure that people have actually taken a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130851	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130851-2	Then it is the case that we would not know what the figures would be if we had assumed consent. It may be that it would be different. So that it is based on voluntaryness and on information is at least often the basis for strong support for the actions. And then the thing is this, if you've crossed the box called "don't know," you've taken an active position that you don't know. And what does it mean for the relatives who are in that situation and in dialogue with the health care professionals that the recently deceased has said: I do not actually know that? So is it something they take responsibility for or not? And that is exactly the dilemma that I think we should put right on the table when we make the decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130929	Thank you. Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428130931	Thank you for that, thank you for your reply. This is not an easy question and I agree with many of the remarks made by the Minister; it is but is it easier, does the Minister think, for the relatives, to be in a situation where the deceased has not taken a position or where the deceased has taken a position and has not said, as the Minister has said? The Minister also has a problem with the fact that there will be some who say 'no' as a form of security, but is it not also better than having to take a position on behalf of someone who is lying there and when you do not know what they are thinking? I find it difficult to see the problem of taking a position, whether you say yes or no or not, because these are all legitimate answers, and it is not the fact that you take a position that is the problem. I don't see that putting the next of kin in a harder situation. The Minister may elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131020	This may not be the case in all cases, for all cases are different. We just know today that there is actually very, very great success in the fact that the health professionals who work with this and who really know their material reach out to the relatives and say: there is no answer, so we have to ask you if we can use these organs to save lives. And there are some very, very good results in those conversations. What we just need to be sure of here is what it will mean for those conversations if you say that he or she has been asked but did not answer. Will it mean that then we know that the deceased was not a 100 per cent supporter, but not a 100 per cent opponent, and is it so easier or harder to get the security and support of the relatives that we need to have these organs? That is precisely the dilemma, and that is why I think we need to hear those who talk to them and who are responsible for the difficult conversations, and thank God it is the people who are trained for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131127	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131129	It is complicated, I think we can all agree on that, because these are difficult issues we are dealing with here. Now it was also mentioned by a few other rapporteurs that there is a citizens' proposal on the way. I do not remember when it will be dealt with in the Chamber, but it will certainly come in the foreseeable future, and it will go further than what is being put forward here today. I think there is more to it before we solve the problem we are facing, and I am not saying that this is an answer but could it be interesting, now there has also been a major change in the Ethics Council, for the Minister to ask the Ethics Council to take a position on this again, to hear what they are thinking, both about what is on the table today and what is coming here in a few weeks' time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131202-2	It could be, that is to say, to have qualified our debate. It is the case with the Ethical Council that it is not an automatic machine in which an answer can be drawn, because in fact they are almost always internal disagreements, but they help to qualify the debate and offer different perspectives, and the more information, the more perspectives, the better it is. However, we will probably not get around the fact that it is probably also us legislators who have to take responsibility for the legislation. Then I think we should listen to the well-educated staff who are responsible for these talks, in other words how we can make their work better and more useful, of course for the relatives and for those who are lacking in organs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131239	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131240	Thank you to the Minister for both speech and reply. I should just like to ask the Minister very briefly: does the Minister think that there will be more or fewer organ donors if you actually ask people if they want to be organ donors?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131252	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131254	Yes, unfortunately there is a fear that there could be fewer people, at a time when there are good results today with the health professionals in hospitals who talk to the relatives, if that is not clear, that is, where the deceased has not signed up and has not said no either. In other words, this situation must then be discussed with the relatives, and there are very, very good results there. And what you can fear if a deceased person has ticked by doesn't know is what it can give of discussion, what thoughts it can then set in motion. We need to be sure, if we are to succeed in this, that those very factual, but indeed difficult, discussions that you have with relatives in such a situation are made better, more secure and on a better basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131356	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131357	I think it has to be said that it is likely that if you ask that very, very large part of the Danes who have not taken a position on this question, then there is probably a pool of those who will answer yes to the fact that you are allowed to use their organs and that you will then actually increase the number of organs that can be used in the Danish health service. But what I want to ask the Minister is: does this mean that the less we talk about it, the more bodies will there be? And it is not to be polemical, but that is what the Minister says, that the less we do, the better it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131427	However, it is a pity to make such a comment in such a debate here. No one here has said anything about doing less. I think that all the rapporteurs are involved in a qualified debate, and I know the rapporteur well enough that we are not there at all. Everyone's interested in what we can do. And let us do this in order to help those who are lacking organs. What I'm trying to address, too, is that this hasn't been investigated. If you want to do it on Danish soil, we do not have any studies, measurements or anything else. This means that it really needs to be done wisely and properly, so I appeal to us to listen to those who are in charge of the health-care talks with the relatives before we take a decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131507	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131510	Thank you. I thought we could agree that it had to be important to get a lot of people to take a stand, as many as possible, and that is something that this is all about. And when I hear the Minister say that it is questionable if people do not respond, I would say that then I think there is a very, very clear signal in it that you do not want to take a position, but want to leave it to the next of kin so that they can take a position on your behalf because you just say "don't know." So how could this lead to fewer organs coming? I simply cannot understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131541	If that is the case and that is the message, let us discuss it with those who are in charge of these conversations. These are some specialists we have, who are extremely skilled and get very, very good results in the current setup with conversations. And I have to say that before I take a position it may be up to everyone to be absolutely sure that those conversations will not get a harder starting point or will have more difficulty in achieving a result. The result has to be that you have security and that you can make a choice, and so that we do not get fewer organs out of it for those who really need them. And there we have good results in the current situation that we know, and we just have to be absolutely sure before we change it. I will certainly be that those who have to handle the conversations know what that means and tell us about it before we make the decision. That's what I'm appealing to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131643	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131645	So what I hear the Minister say is that it is not really important to know the individual's position on this here, but that it is more important to find a method that will enable us to subsequently have as many bodies as possible. This is more important than taking into account the individual's attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131704	I'm sorry. I'm a little sad about these lines you come with every once in a while. Well, I know you as someone who listens extremely well and is extremely factual, and none of what I've said should in any way indicate that I thought it didn't matter. Everything I have talked about and everything we are working on then has to do with getting more people to decide. It was in all my speech, but also in what I have done as Minister of Health, when we introduced the new health card on the app and just made an extraordinary effort for it, which also had a success. So I can reject that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131741	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Health. Then we start with the rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428131751	Thank you for that, and thank you to the proposers for focusing on a very important discussion. As long as I remember, we have been discussing the lack of organs and there have also been numerous information campaigns and recommendations to take a position. Nevertheless, there is still a shortage of organs today, and by the end of 2021, as the Minister also mentioned, 389 patients were on a waiting list for a body. Unfortunately, experience also shows that not everyone has time to transplant an organ. I therefore agree with the proposers that we can save lives if more Danes decide on organ donation. A number of actions have also been carried out in recent years with the aim of getting more people to decide on organ donation and thus getting more organ donors. With the new digital health card, it has become very simple to register your wish. The 15-17-year-olds have been given the opportunity to sign up for the Organ Donor Register. The Danish Health Authority has updated their information material and carried out a modernisation of the Organ Donor Register, and a broad political agreement has been made to resume organ donation from cardiac death. All this means, of course, that more people are taking a stand in the years to come, so that we get more bodies to save lives, but we also have to recognise that it is not certain that it will get us all to the point. I can myself be concerned that this will get us all the way to the end, so we will have all the bodies that are needed when, at the end of last year, these 389 Danes were on the waiting list, and when, unfortunately, we also experience that there are Danes dying while they are on a waiting list for a body. When that is still happening, we have not yet reached the goal. This is an important issue, and I can therefore only support the fact that the government is calling for discussions in ethical circles on how best to strengthen efforts in the area of organ donation, both by looking at the initiatives that have already been implemented and by looking at whether there are other tools that can be brought into play, for example this proposal that the proposers are putting forward here. I hope that this will provide the basis for a joint political report on this when we have finished discussing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132010	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132013	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I had hoped a little that perhaps the Social Democrats would be willing to go a little further on the basis of the quotations made by the rapporteur to Kristeligt Dagblad, when we presented this proposal here on 9 October in the Conservative People's Party, that is, on the International Organisational Donation Day. I would just like to ask if the Social Democrats do not embrace this proposal to a greater extent than they do what is then of alternatives, and I fully agree with all the good things they have done, and I will not take that away from anyone. Because the obvious alternative to this is the model where you're automatically registered, and we're gonna have to discuss that soon down here. Has the Social Democratic Party moved on to that agenda? Does it have an impact on how to deal with this proposal? I mean, these two things are kind of connected. So I am a little curious about how the Social Democratic Party views that arrangement and whether you stand in the same place as has been done so far in relation to rejecting that model.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132113	I would like to embrace the proposal more. I have done so bypassing this debate, and I would like to make that a quotation in this Chamber. I think it is a good proposal and I think it is an exciting proposal, and I think it is very similar to what I myself have been out in the press as a clever way of doing this. I also think it is a proposal that deserves to be changed, to get some other perspectives on and see if it can be better done, and to see if there are any blind spots that we are not just aware of. So the proposers and others who are interested in this should not at last see it as if the proposal here is being poured down the board by having some more eyes on it, and see if it can be done better, if there are other models that can do the same, and if there are some things that we are not just paying attention to here and that we must of course take on board. So I take this proposal very, very constructively, also forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132219	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132221	I still think I have no answers to the question of a model with supposed consent, i.e. whether the Social Democrats continue to reject that model. Then I would like to know whether, if you cannot buy the whole package, which is in the motion for a resolution here, it would not be appropriate to start with it when young people, for example, take a driving licence. It is an obvious place to say that you must have a first aid course and that you must take a position in the same rebirth. Wouldn't that still be an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132248	Well, if you make this model, it was an obvious time to do it. For there you do not want to hit everyone, but you will hit many, at least until someday we get driverless cars, and then we have to solve it in a different way. But yes, it could be an obvious way, if it's like the track we're going down. I think there are a lot of exciting things, and it is not a rejection of that model. That's what you can say... not a hand in helping us make a deal about this now, but it's a curiosity, a graciousness, but also a desire to get some more eyes on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132323	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr. Martin Geertsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132331	Thank you. And thank the proposers for this proposal on organ donation. We in the Left, by its very nature and like other parties, think that the debate on organ donation is extremely important, but it is also a difficult debate because it is, of course, about life and death. This is a difficult debate here in Parliament, as the last few rounds here have also illustrated. But above all, I think that it is a difficult debate in the Danish homes if we have the debate at all. That is why we think this proposal is good and right, because it will have the consequence that more people are being debated and also taken a position on the issue of organ donation. In the first instance, this proposal calls for the government to call the parties of the Folketing for negotiations with a view to making a political agreement that makes it compulsory to decide whether or not to be an organ donor. And we would very much like to be involved in negotiations of this kind, and I understand that the Minister has already promised to do so. So we come here for that reason alone, at least, to support the proposal from this circle of parties. We can see that the vast majority of Danes are positive about donating their organs, but only a quarter have recorded their position. And now that so many have taken a position, but less than half of those who have taken a position have recorded it, more can be done. And when you do polls and ask people if they are willing to donate their organs, it is as much as 85% who want to help other people in a difficult and life-threatening situation. That is why, of course, it is not enough for these many positive statements not to be translated into more organ donors. We can see that by 2020 18 Danes died waiting for organ donation, and that is why, in my view, there is also a legitimate hope that if, as it were, you are further encouraged to take a position on organ donation when you interact with the public, more will report as donors and more lives will be saved. We believe that the requirement for a position on the issue of organ donation when you meet the public and have to have a new health card or passport or driving licence, or whatever you can imagine, must be combined with ongoing information campaigns, so that, as a Dane, not only from one day to the next without further preparation, you will be faced with a completely new initiative without being prepared. So all in all, we are going to support this resolution. Finally, I would just like to point out that this is a proposal which is very similar to B 100 from 2008, which was adopted, but unfortunately to this day has not been implemented. So I guess it's not about time to get it done. And I hope that it will not be, what will it be, 14 years before we have had enough eyes on this matter, so that we can do something. In any case, we shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132638	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132641	I would just like to briefly acknowledge and thank the rapporteur for his willingness to accept this proposal. It is true that what we are imposing in the resolution here is that the Minister calls for discussions, but it is also discussions with a view to drawing up such a model, where what I might hear from the Minister today is a little more an invitation to a general meeting of the ethical community. So I think it is worth noting that here we are calling for further work to be done on this specific model. But thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132707	You're welcome, and we're both for one thing and for the other. That's it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132713	Yes, I do not think there is any follow-up brief remark. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428132722	Thank you. I can hardly think of a more desperate situation than that in which one of our loved ones risks losing his life while waiting for a life-giving organ donation. This is a desperate situation because it is known that donations of a vital organ can actually save their lives. I'm sure it's true that many people are positive about donating their own organs when life ends, but it's also a fact that for many people, this donor card is not being filled in. That is why I also understand the desire for so-called supposed consent, in which, as a starting point, we are all donors, unless we withdraw from it, and we will also have to deal with such a proposal in this Chamber a little later, not today, but a little later. It is precisely this system that has just the chin that it will continue to question whether the individual has actually taken a position, and it still leaves relatives in doubt as to whether a potential donor actually wanted to donate its organs. This is not the first time we have discussed organ donation in the Folketing. In fact, I believe that we have also discussed it later than 2008, when at that time the Left had the power, as the rapporteur of the Left just mentioned. I think we discussed this later. However, in recent years we have also taken decisions to increase the number of donors for the benefit of the many patients waiting for transplantation, because this is a prerequisite for saving their lives. In the SF we are very pleased with the measures that we have already adopted, but we also share the frustration of many citizens that there are still too many who have not taken a position. That is why I also agree with my colleagues in the Conservative People's Party and Mrs Liselott Blixt, who helped to put forward this proposal, that we need to take a further step towards everyone taking a position. In the SF we will not force anyone into organ donation, but we do not think it is too much for everyone to take a position. That is why we also believe that the time has come to develop a model in which everyone takes a position. The message of what the individual wants is important to the bereaved, and it will greatly facilitate the work of those doctors who need to clarify whether a deceased can also be a potential donor and thus ensure the life of another citizen. Denmark is one of the most digitised countries in the world, so there are more opportunities for us as citizens to be asked to deal with the issue, for example. when we are issued a driving licence, or it may also be in connection with the creation of NemID or MitID, as it appears today, the issue of a health card, passport or perhaps something else. With this motion for a resolution, however, we will ask the government to call for discussions on the concrete options in order to be able to put forward a legislative proposal to ensure that in future all citizens will have a position on organ donation. I know it's a difficult matter to legislate around, but it's just not an excuse for us not getting it done. I think we should get it done on our guard because it is important for a great many people, so I also hope that there will be a majority for the government to call us for discussions on such a bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428133101	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mr. Stinus Lindgreen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428133109	Thank you, President, and many thanks to the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this important issue. The only thing that annoys me is that you didn't ask if we wanted to be part of the co-sponsors. Because in the Radical Left we fully agree with the problem of organ donation, that is, the discrepancy between, on the one hand, the lack of donors and, on the other hand, the great goodwill of the population, as the Minister mentioned in his speech. It points out that we should do something. By 2020, some 400 Danes were waiting for a body, and 18 of them died while they were on the waiting list. Whether they would all have been alive today, if we had had more donors, is of course not to know that there must be a number of things that match the number of donors, but of course the probability increases with the number of donors. In Denmark we are in the situation that the vast majority of us really want to be organ donors, but many of us have just not been registered for various reasons. That's a problem. That is why we in the Radical Left wholeheartedly support working to get more people to take a stand on the issue. Finally, let us meet for negotiations on how to ensure that we have more organ donors so that we can have a thorough discussion on this difficult issue. In this respect, it is important to stress that both yes and no and know are not entirely legitimate answers. What is important is that we take a position on this. When I have been asked about the subject myself, I have mentioned, for example, several times. the possibility of automatic reminders as a proposal, e.g. that when you log on to health.dk or the like, if you are 18 years old and not registered, just pops up a window where you ask: Have you considered it? Do you want to, or don't you want to, or do you have to think about it a little longer? I think that's a simple and easy way to get people to think about this question. If you are unable to say yes or no, you can wait. The proposal mentions the time when driving licences are issued as another option, and I think that is also a good reason for doing so. So we can also support this concrete part in the Radical Left. But it is not a simple subject. This has been clear in the previous speeches. It is of course we, as legislators, who must take responsibility for what we decide. However, both this proposal and the citizens' proposal that we will soon be discussing in this Chamber deserve a well-qualified debate. That is why I hope that the Minister will ask the newly formed Ethnic Council to look again at the subject so that we can also hear their reflections, not to get an answer. So, once again, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution on which we in the Radical Left support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428133351	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428133354	That's so nice to hear. Thank you for the positive words of the Radicals. The fact that it is the parties on the motion for a resolution is actually a bit of a coincidence. I just think we were excited that we could do this in a cross-political and broad way in the Folketing, and then we were happy when the criteria were just like met. I would just like to hear for the record: if we end up sending this proposal to the vote in the Chamber, can we also expect the Radical Left to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428133418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428133419	It's always good to have broad settlements behind something like this that's so big and so important. And not a bad word about the other. We would have liked to have supported it if you had asked us, and yes, we will also be voting in favour of it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428133429	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428133436	Thank you for that, President. I would like to join the choir of those who commend the authors of the motion for a resolution for taking the debate in this Chamber, and would also like to congratulate the substance of the proposal itself, because I think it is quite right to do so. After all, as previous rapporteurs have said, this is an extremely important debate, and it is a little paradoxical that we can see that support for organ donation is generally high, but that a large group still has not yet taken a position on it. One of the things we have been able to see has been that every time the debate is up in the public eye if there have been television broadcasts about it, or if the debate has been conducted in the media at all, we can see it immediately by a larger proportion reporting as organ donors. This suggests that as soon as the subject is brought up and as soon as you get the opportunity to discuss it at home and discuss it with your loved ones, your family and your loved ones, it gives you the opportunity to take a position. You could say that's exactly what this proposal is gonna do. This ensures that there will be an opportunity to take a position on it and to discuss it with the people you love, with those you trust, and also subsequently to take a concrete position on whether or not you want to be an organ donor. So I actually think that this is a very good proposal, and I think it hits exactly where it should, precisely because it continues to allow those who may be in doubt, because it can happen that you yourself do not feel able to take a position, can say "don't know," but that it also means that you are reminded of it over and over again. We should not force anyone to take a position, but we would also like them to be reminded that they have not yet taken a position on this. This should be an opportunity for you both to consider it yourself, but also to discuss with others what you want to do. So thank you very much to the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the debate. We could also have been co-sponsors of this proposal, but it is in principle subordinate. What is crucial is that we have the debate here and that this will also lead to the convening of negotiations. Thank you so much for making the proposal. Enhedslisten can back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428133657	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428133710	Thank you for that, and thank you to the proposers, who also count one from DF, I can see. This is a very good proposal, and I think the key point is that we are working to ensure that everyone takes a position. I am a little sorry that the Minister takes this as something controversial when I trouble-shoot the Minister's statement. But I was just really worried about yes, I'm sorry, but that's what I got about the statements about, you wouldn't quite know what to do if someone didn't answer. I think it is perfectly legitimate for us to call for a debate in the family to be held in relation to having a choice, that is to say that you say yes or no, or that you might say no because you do not want to impose a certain choice on your relatives afterwards, but that you really want to say that they have to decide if they are in that situation. It's also legitimate. It's okay, too. We can, of course, discuss the following: what is to be answered? Should there be an answer: this resolution I would like to leave to my relatives afterwards, because I think it is the most respectful thing to do in relation to them? It's okay, too. That is why I think this proposal calls for us to take the debate in which we ensure that everyone takes a position as far as possible. But that doesn't mean we have to decide what to decide. That is why we fully support the proposal and hope that we can subsequently have a good discussion on how to bring this forward in a good and sensible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428133858	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments, so now it is the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428133905	Thank you. We have very much the view that one's body is one's own and certainly not the state's property. This proposal can be read in two ways, and I choose to read it as if there is a desire for the government to convene some negotiations. There we have the basic principle that when there is another party in the Folketing that has a wish that there should be some debate on a single matter, then we want to be so democratically minded and supportive of it. Therefore, if you read it into it, we will be able to vote in favour of the proposal. If you read into it what is stated in the comments that you have to be forced to take a position, then we are not quite sure that we would be able to support it, that is, if the proposal looks like that. It also depends, of course, on the negotiations on how the proposal itself will look, but it is a little far from where we basically have our sight. But if we read it into it, that you want a debate, and that's what it says in the lines about it, then we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134012	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134014	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. What it says is that we want negotiations to be convened in order to reach a political agreement to make it compulsory to decide whether or not to be an organ donor. So it's just to be honest. I appreciate the principle of New Citizens. And then I think I'll just mention that when we want a model like this, it's not from an ideal world. Well, it's not in the ideal world that this is necessary. But one of the other proposals in this area, in relation to obtaining more organ donors, is this model with supposed consent, which assumes that people are donors. We are a very large majority in the Danish Parliament who have rejected this in several rounds, precisely because we do not like the principle that you per. automatic in this way belongs to a register. So this proposal should actually be seen as a response to it, where we think it is less intrusive to ask people to take a position than to assume that you per. automatic wants to be a donor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134106	Yeah, I understand. There is also the possibility that people are talking about something that they do not actually think they will make action. It may be that there are several Danes who say they want to donate, but at the end of the day, they do not want to donate. But when they have to tell someone who asks, they want to be people and then they say they want to. It may also be that that is why you see the difference between how many people actually want to. And then I think that public opinion should be very careful about what is called nudging, that is to say, trying to push people in a particular direction. I don't like that much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134139	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134140	But I would say that the wish that there might be to push here is a desire to get people to take a position, including those who do not want to be organ donors, because it is a great decision to leave the bereaved without knowing what the deceased would have wanted. So, therefore, the desire to get people to take a position is certainly also for the sake of those who do not want to take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134205	I don't think people should be forced to take a stand on that. I don't think it's the task of the state to say: we think you should take a position here. And then you can decide no, don't know or yes, but it's also a position that they say you should. It is also a way of asking them to take a position, and I am not sure that I am in favour of the fact that it is the task of the state to do so to the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134226	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134229	Thank you. The reason why these proposals come up again and again is that it is possible that you can have a new body if that is the case that that is what it takes to save your life if you have a serious illness. And there are just a lot of patients on that waiting list waiting to receive an organ. It is rather a paradox that so few have taken a position, while so many say that they are positive about being organ donors, just as I think that most Danes are in fact also positive about receiving a body if they themselves should have the need. What is the rapporteur's solution if we are not allowed to say at any time that now is the time for you to take a position?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134319	I think it is fine that we are taking a debate on what I think is fine, that is the focus on it, and in this way it may be that people, if it is in the media and in the debate, are starting to take a position. That is what Enhedslisten's rapporteur said. When there is attention to it, a debate is also being held. I don't mind having a social debate about it. Where I think it might get a lopsided turn is when, with the state and the power of the state, people will be forced to take a stand on it when they so want to enjoy some other things that are good. For example: are there examples that if you want to take a driver's license, or if you need your doctor and some other stuff, you just get reminded of these things. I think it is wrong that some rights that some citizens have in society should be linked up with the fact that you also have to decide on this. I don't like the clutch you make with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134411	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134412	We've talked about this a lot of times, and we're sorry, but we're a lot of people who think it's hard to take a position, and that we don't like to have to make some decisions in terms of how we move on. However, it is a fact that, despite the fact that we have spoken, we have not succeeded in achieving the goal of getting more donors. We still have too many patients on the waiting lists, and at some point there will be some parents or some relatives who will be forced to take a stand on behalf of someone close to us who could be a potential donor. So we're not gonna have to take a stand. What is the rapporteur's response to these many people waiting for the waiting lists?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134457	Well, it may be that there are not as many people who want to be an organ donor as politicians want there to be. It is then society and the will of the citizens. Then you can say that we damn well want you to be donors, but if the citizen out there doesn't have a wish, and if the individual doesn't have a desire to take a stand, I won't impose anything on the individual. Yeah, well, maybe the bereaved will be in that situation. It's part of life. Is that an optimal solution? No, it may not be for those who are in the situation, but there is also the consideration that needs to be taken that how much the state should go into what is a matter of private life, and here I think we are going too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134539	Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134541	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I take the floor because I am a little confused and I hope that the rapporteur can make me wiser. I understand that the rapporteur ideologically does not want the state to take a position on behalf of the people. I fully agree with that. We should not force the people to do anything. That is a legitimate position. At the same time, the rapporteur also says that we must not nudge. We must not force, but we must also not try to get people to take a position in other softer ways, which are probably what is being proposed in the proposal here. But it's okay that we start a public debate because it can get people to decide. But I guess it's some kind of nudging, too. The fact that we are taking the debate now helps us to ask people to take a position and we can see that it is working. I don't hear anyone in here trying to force people to say yes. I hear a lot of people want people to take a stand. Whether they say 'yes' or 'no' or 'no' or do not know' is a matter for the rapporteur just to say that then, for my sake, the rapporteur can only say a few words again about what the rapporteur thinks we should do in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134645	Yes, and I also tried to outline that it is when you put it on, for example. some welfare areas, something that you can benefit from, i.e. a driving licence you want, a passport that you need, something that probably almost all Danes need. I don't like the connection that we're gonna use that opportunity in relation to something that we know you need to try this. That's the clutch I don't like.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134715	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134715-2	I guess no one's forcing people to take a driver's license or forcing people to go to a doctor. I guess that's something we're offering. That is something we have adopted. At any rate, I have never been forced to take a driver's license or to go to a doctor. Something too is surely a principle which the rapporteur's party is in favour of. So if we offer something to the citizens, a health service, a hospital, that you can get an operation, then I guess it's okay that we say: but we also want you to take a stand on this part too. I just can't understand the ideological opposition to it. But perhaps it is just me who is not quite as smart as the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134746	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134747	I will not comment on the state of mind or intellect of the questioner. I just think that we may have two basic ideological positions here that are not the same, in relation to saying: where does the state limit what it can ask the people for, and what are basic civil rights that the state does not have the right to go over? I think that is where the totally legitimate difference is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134813	Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. There are no more brief comments. So now we have reached Mrs Karina Adsbøl, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428134826	Thank you. My five colleagues, Mrs Lise Bech, Mrs Marie Krarup, Mr. Bent Bøgsted, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby and Mrs Liselott Blixt, who are also co-sponsors and whom I am a little today, and I myself, from our working community, have a great desire for more people to take a position on organ donation. So for anyone who is 18 years old, the intention is to take a position, and that can happen, for example, Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, in the meeting with the government, when driving licences are issued, when driving licences are to be renewed, when medical certificates are issued and renewed, when passports are issued and renewed, when a person enters the personal health record in connection with, for example, a medical visit. It is important that we get more people to sign up for organ donation, and that is why we also support the proposal that you should be able to ask in several places whether you want to be an organ donor. It must always be a free choice, and that is why we in our working community have advocated it in the past. Back in 2008, as was also said earlier, Mrs Pia Christmas-Møller made a proposal that was very similar to this, and then there was a majority in favour of it, and it was voted in favour, but it has not been implemented. So that's why it's really good to have this re-presentation. After all, there are often debates about whether to be an organ donor from birth and whether to opt out of this. We do not want this because it could result in more people saying no from the start and therefore not being considered as a donor and relatives and then never having to be asked. At the same time, it must also be up to the individual. There are several aspects to it, that is, that you need a body, but also how we can say goodbye to our loved ones in a proper and dignified way. There will always be a big difference in how we, as individuals in a difficult situation, deal with this big issue, and therefore it is also important that we each have the conversation with our families and our relatives, also in relation to whether you want to be an organ donor, or whether you are in doubt, or whether you do not want to donate, and there is also a big difference in how we reach that choice. Unfortunately, however, there are too few people to register their position, and the consequence is that Danes die every year because they wait in vain for a new body. In 2020, 18 Danes died waiting for an organ donation. In addition, I am also convinced that there is probably a dark figure in this area, and that is why it is an area that we have highlighted by several rounds, and the good thing about these debates is that we are also focusing on the importance of taking a position on organ donation. After the digital health card it has become a little easier, and we have also seen that it has had an impact on the fact that more people registered because they were asked. That is why we hope that there will be a majority to vote through this proposal, and I can hear that there is in this debate and that we can then at least take a position whatever that position is. We also hope that the Minister will take this up in a more serious way and have it implemented, unlike all the other health ministers who never had Pia Christmas Miller's proposal implemented. Then I can also say to a service information that when you go into registering as an organ donor, and you are in doubt whether you want to donate all your organs or just some, you can put your leg on it if there are some organs you do not want to donate. So I would like to thank you for today's debate. I hope that action will now come so that we can get more people to take a position on organ donation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428135223	Thank you for that to Mrs Karina Adsbøl. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Mette Abildgaard from the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428135240	Thank you all very much for taking part in this debate today, and thank you very much for accepting this proposal so openly, which many of you have also considered various variations of over time. When I myself decided that it was now time to do something more really parliamentary about it, it was quite frankly at a time when I was in a debate and was asked to deal with this model with a supposed consent and where I stood and had to answer a man who had lost his daughter. Many of you know him; he is an excellent player in this debate and speaks for the need for increased organ donation. When I had to answer him how I could say no to a model with supposed consent, I just had to have something else to put in place. And this is an attempt to replace something else that I hoped there would be broad support for, and I have also seen today that there has been broad support for it. So thank you very much to the parties that have been involved in tabling this motion for a resolution and thank you very much to all of you parties who have said that you would have liked to have stood by it as well as to those outside the groups who also support it. It's really nice. After all, this is an attempt to address a serious issue that we are all concerned with. I see that the Minister is concerned about that too. We need to find solutions to this, and we all recognise that it is difficult; there are dilemmas associated with this. Nevertheless, the fact that we get more Danes to take a position must lead to a better knowledge base and a better starting point in order to get more people to sign up as organ donors. For the figures show this clearly: there are, in fact, more Danes than those who are currently registered who want to become donors, but they have not just got it registered. And, on the other hand, we also have a huge responsibility to ensure that those who do not want to become organ donors are registered, that it is recorded and that there is no doubt about their position. So this is really an attempt to ensure a better starting point for both those who want to be donors, those who lack a donor body, and also those who have no desire to be donors. I have great respect for the initiatives that have already been taken and tried to do this with nudging, with driving licences, with health insurance certificates, etc., where it has been seen that many Danes have gone in and taken a position. I have great respect for the fact that we are constantly trying to find new ways of dealing with this difficult problem. But we also need to use a little more harder measures if we want to achieve fully in relation to this problem. We demand that the Danes take a position, but we do not demand that you answer either yes or no. We have to respect the fact that someone will be answering does not know. That's where I think I'm looking at it, just like sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party, that is, if I were left as a family to someone who had not answered, then I would like to know that the decision was up to me. And the person who has died has had faith that we were right to make that decision. So I don't think it's worthless to get that registration either. I look forward very much to having this voted through in the Parliamentary Chamber. I am sure that the Minister will invite us to a cup of coffee where we can discuss this further on the basis of this model, where we make it compulsory with a position. And then we have to look at how practically this can be done. At any rate, I think I have met a great deal of goodwill in the Chamber today in terms of a good model. So let this just be a final remark on my part: let us now use this occasion, where we have debated it in the Chamber today, to all go back out and remind everyone of it and get as many Danes as possible to take a position. I think that every time we mention it... whether it's for the family company or for the group meeting or in the group room... we're discussing this motion for a resolution... there's always some who say: Oh, yes, I have to have done that too. And we must have them react as soon as possible, whatever their decision becomes a yes or a no; wherever they may land in that debate. So thank you very much for your goodwill with regard to this motion for a resolution. Thank you to the broad circle of parties that have welcomed it. And I look forward very much to discussing this further in the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428135637	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Mette Abildgaard. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428135651	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428135712	Thank you for that, President. This is a motion for a resolution which probably brings together a number of different elements, and these are elements that relate to patients' rights, but also several other elements • patient-responsible doctor and other things, which are exactly what we are discussing these weeks and months under the auspices of the negotiations on a health reform. I can also see that it is practically the case. That is, of course, quite fair, or sometimes you do so; you have a proposal from a party, and then you say that we turn it into a resolution, and then you can get it on the agenda in that way too, which of course is quite fine. I think that there are a great many good elements in it. As I said, there is going on in my ministry, the Ministry of Health, on a daily basis, I would say, meetings where we meet with the parties exactly on these elements, and I am concerned about finding a solution to that. I can say, as I have said elsewhere, but I would also like to say today that I am still preoccupied with the fact that we can reach a broad settlement. I am quite sure that health care is best served by having a broad settlement on it so that it does not throw health care into new uncertainties about such fundamental elements and structures. That is why I am only going to take such an overall view of constructive contributions here. Some of this can be found in the government's own health reform initiative, and others have been played in by one or more different parties. And everything's on the table. What this is all about now is finding out how we can reach each other in a common amount and how we can try to do our utmost to strengthen our health services, which so much need it. I regret that there is not such a great deal of content in this speech, but it is therefore conscious. It is because I am very, very concerned that we will have this broad agreement made, and if we are to succeed, it is my experience that it is not helpful at this stage that the responsible minister, who sits at the top of the table and is responsible for the negotiations, will report to the east and west on all sorts of things in the media or here on the platform. So thank you for the suggestion. We will take it with us, and we will also include it in our negotiations. However, I would like to take specific discussions on this at the negotiating table. And then, hopefully, when we reach an agreement, we can see a lot of it in an agreement. But that then requires that the parties are involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140017	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140020	Thank you. I do not know what it is like in the Minister's party, but it is the case with us that we sometimes do so, that when we have made a political proposal, we actually bring it down to the Assembly. Then there is a certain chance that it will also happen and not just something on the Internet. Well, leave it alone. I could take up every corner of this, I would say to the Minister, but time does not allow that. We can just take a concrete proposal, which the Social Democratic Party itself helped to make in 2018, and which I thought was a good proposal, namely a proposal for a patient responsible health care professional. The fact that we are in some negotiations does not, of course, deprive the Minister of any meaning. Does the Minister think that we need to get rid of it so that we can have a patient-responsible health care professional, not only in relation to cancer, but in much more areas, for example. in relation to chronic patients, people with psychiatric disorders, elderly medical patients? I guess it's pretty simple to say yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140124	The patient-responsible doctor or patient-responsible health care professional is actually something that we just have to say is not fully implemented at all. It has therefore been introduced and, as I understand it, it has been agreed, but not fully implemented. That is why part of the government's initiative is precisely to initiate the work that can be promoted and that can strengthen the scheme. It is also about saying that in some places it works, but there are also places where it would really help patients, but where it is not there today. That is why we must wherever it makes any professional sense at all, that is, where there are patients who need it and can benefit from it. That's our approach. It is not, in fact, different from the government we replaced, actually the then V government that introduced patient-responsible doctor, but did not quite succeed in implementing it. We believe that this work should continue, in other words in the priority work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140229	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140231	That is why we must also make this a real right of patients, which is enshrined in the Health Act. Otherwise, this is not gonna happen. I'd like to ask you something else. The proposal we have to introduce an annual health interview for chronic patients, not just looking at their illness, but looking at their living conditions in general, was an agreement that the Minister could see, and does the Minister think it is a good idea, or is it a bad idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140300	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140301	That's quite fair, as I started by saying. It is a good tool that you can take a political initiative and then turn it into a resolution. But I hold on to what I started by saying: that is one of the things we are discussing in the negotiations. I would therefore like to reserve the specific elements of the motion for a resolution for the negotiations. I will do the same when it comes to this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140333	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Minister, so now it is the rapporteurs. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140349	There is a lot that works quite well in our healthcare system, but there are also places where you can say it can be done better, not least when it comes to creating better links in our patient processes. The patient must be placed at the centre so that, as a patient, you always experience a complete and coherent course, both the time you are being treated and subsequently with rehabilitation, follow-up, control, etc., and so that you as a patient are fully aware of your rights and opportunities. It is also an important part of the health issue presented by the government last month. The government's health initiative contains a number of measures aimed at creating better links and greater quality for patients at all, and this is unfortunately necessary. All this leads me to the conclusion that the natural place to take this debate and this discussion is in the negotiating room, where we are currently debating a health reform which will address precisely the challenges that are being addressed both in the government's health proposals and in the proposal that is being put forward now and here by the Left, and also in the next proposal that we will be dealing with shortly. Instead of having a separate debate in this Chamber, we will then take the overall debate and hopefully find a comprehensive, broad and good solution in the negotiating room. So we cannot support the proposal here and now, even though there are a lot of good things, also a lot of things that rhyme with what the government has done in a health issue. However, we look forward to continuing the negotiations and continuing the discussion on how to improve the coherence and quality of patients in our health care, in the negotiations that are running right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140541	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140544	I mean, seriously, friends in the Social Democratic Party. Now it has been two and a half years to call these debates, so I think it is rather strange that it should be paradoxical that resolutions should be tabled in the Parliamentary Assembly on health policy, especially in view of the fact that this government, if any, has been hanging on the brakes when it has been a matter of getting started, like calling for negotiations on a health reform. And then we must be very sorry that we are rather impatient and then thought that there was not enough momentum and that we are beginning to table some motions for resolutions down here, when the government, like it, is not able to find a way of bringing itself together to hold negotiations, even though it is something unusual that one should suddenly be accused of the problem of making proposals in the Parliamentary Assembly on politics. Come on!
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140638	The Left must put forward all the both problematic and unproblematic proposals that you can possibly conjure up, and you are perfectly welcome and it is all parties to make them exactly when it fits in. My suggestion is that, now that the negotiations have started, and now that the Left has been waiting with excitement for this initiative, it has even come up with its own proposal, and we are sitting here and in the middle of the negotiations, the negotiating room is an obvious place to resolve this, and we can resolve it together, instead of having some loose discussions in this Chamber. So, I understand the zeal for Mr. Knox's work. Martin Geertsen and the desire to get started. There is plenty of room for what the negotiations are running right now and here, and there is a lot where the Left, the Social Democrats and the Government and a lot of other parties are putting up with each other and sharing analysis of problems and challenges and have many of the same solutions. So let's solve it. And we can quite clearly do that in the negotiations that are currently under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140743	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428140757	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Left, I think, for the proposal to improve patients' rights. These are issues which are also being discussed during the negotiations that we are currently holding on the subject of health reform. I hope that health professionals throughout the country have read along, because I share the praises of the Left for their efforts out there. Despite difficult conditions and often lack of staff, it is a unique effort of staff to patients who need treatment and care. I would also like to admit that in a number of areas we have become sharper in the investigation, not least in the area of cancer, and I think that is a good thing. In the work on health reform, we will also see in the SF the quality and, above all, the coherence of the close and coherent health care system. There is certainly potential for prevention of unnecessary admissions and for early detection of health professional problems, which must be dealt with as effectively and as early as possible, and in SF we are concerned with simplifying interventions so that patients have easy access to both medical technology and health care. This is especially true of the many cronys. Having said that, we are also focusing on another theme, which is also addressed in the government's proposals for a health reform: well-trained staff enough. This is the biggest and most serious challenge we are facing at all, and if we had endless means right now, we still cannot treat patients unless we have the necessary professional resources. Just that challenge may also mean that we must slaughter some sacred cows and give priority to those patients who have the greatest needs first. Because it is a fact that investigation and treatment guarantees have as a consequence that the most resourceful patients can prioritize themselves before others, not least through the extensive use of private health insurances that we see today. In the SF we are concerned that all patients must be cleared in time, because a diagnosis is a prerequisite for us to be able to identify serious illness in time and thus also to prioritize and initiate treatment as soon as possible. After all, waiting lists indicate that, overall, we lack staff. If we had the necessary staff, we would have no waiting lists, which is why I agree with doctors and health professionals when they point to the need for differentiated waiting list guarantees so that we can prioritize the most ill first. With small vintages, adolescences, and demographic development with many more elderly people in the coming years, we must also look at both a higher degree of interdisciplinaryism, and we must also be ready to improve both pay and employment conditions so that we can continue to attract skilled labour. I am deeply concerned about both health care and care for the elderly. There are some really difficult years ahead and a lack of priority is simply irresponsible. That is why it is not time for politically determined priorities, but rather for professionally qualified priorities and in a way that staff should know that we have their back politically. In the SF we are ready for further discussions on the issues mentioned, which we hope we can address in particular in a future health reform, for the benefit of patients, for the benefit of greater equality in health and, above all, for the benefit of the staff on whom we are already drawing far too much trust. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428141147	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428141150	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I myself think that one of the most equality-building measures introduced into the Danish healthcare system over the last 20 years is patient rights. Because in the 1990s it was the case that all the rich went to private hospitals and that all the poor were so slightly caricatured that they were queued up for the public health service. The introduction of patient rights is one of the best things that has happened in the Danish healthcare system over the last 20 years. This isn't so much the investigation and treatment guarantee that this is about. No, this is about a whole new type of rights, that is to say the right to a system with a patient-responsible health care professional, the right for several patient groups to package courses and the right to an annual health interview. What does the rapporteur think about the type of rights which, in fact, help to create more coherence and, hopefully, also some smooth treatment? This is good for the individual, but it is probably also optimal in terms of how we use the resources in the Danish health care system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428141247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428141248	I have no doubt that a more permanent and well-known staff, including permanent doctors, is of great importance for the rational use of resources, for avoiding delays and for ensuring some momentum and some continuity in the course of treatment. So I am very much in favour of patients meeting the same staff, whether it is doctors or health professionals or where it is in the health sector, because it is more rational. But I think for a while we have to take care to provide real guarantees in here from Christiansborg for the simple reason that there is simply too much work for too few employees. And that means that waiting lists will just grow every time we issue new guarantees about new packages for new patient groups. Every time we do that, we will also be overlooking patient groups from here, who may have needs that we have not seen, but which the doctor will necessarily see because it is him, or her, for that matter, who have the professional skills.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428141355	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428141356	I look at it quite the other way round, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. I think that this will be a vicious circle if we do nothing and set our feet if we do not take political initiatives. After all, I also see these proposals where we go out and propose some rights for the individual patient as a good thing for the overall health care system, because in the end, at least in my opinion, it can help to optimise the patient's progress, which is good for the individual and, as such, also good for the health care system as such, and thus actually help to create less hurry.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428141431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428141432	It is based on the assumption that the staff only do something wise if it is the case that we stand in here and make the checklist. I do not think that is what the rapporteur was trying to say, but that is the picture that will be left out there. If we had unbridled resources, I actually think that packages could be good, because they create some transparency for the individual, but it is also a fact that the packages we have today have as a consequence of the risk of over-treatment, and one can of course also run the risk of under-treating because you do not see what is not provided for in the package.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428141511	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428141520	Thank you. Health policy is quite consistent one of the topics that concerns the population most. This is not surprising, since we all have numerous contacts with health care throughout our lives. Most of us start and end our lives in health care. With this proposal, the Left wants to impose a bill on the government to strengthen patients' rights, and the Left also makes a number of concrete proposals as to what they think these rights should be. In the Radical Left, we are very interested in ensuring good and safe treatment for all patients, just as we would very much like to look at flexible and individual approaches to the individual patient. It is important that we use our limited resources in health care wisely and for the benefit of patients. It is fortunate that we are currently negotiating a health agreement with the Minister, and it is quite obvious that these issues should also be addressed here. I will therefore look forward to negotiating this too with the Left and the other parties here in the Danish Parliament, but of course we will not be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution in this Chamber. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428141629	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428141639	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you to the Left for moving the negotiations on a new health reform into the Parliamentary Chamber. We are now negotiating in the Ministry, and it can always be interesting to take the debate in an open forum such as the Parliamentary Chamber. I do not know how much is actually coming out of it, but this is certainly a good opportunity for us to test each other's views. I also think it is an interesting debate that the Left raises, that is to say the whole question of rights, because it is clear that there is something in it about having a right, and there are also some of the proposals that the Left has with which I agree. At any rate, I agree with that about being able to have a patient-responsible health care professional as well. It can then be both in relation to health care, but when it comes to reducing inequality in health, it is not only what is going on in health care that counts. It may also only be to ensure that people are helped to understand the letters that are coming and that you can actually get into health care. So there may certainly be some elements in it that I think could be sensible to discuss. But the debate on rights itself is interesting. When we look at what is now called a patient right, that is to say the treatment guarantee, it only matters where there is a private alternative which can offer exactly the type of treatment that it can be profitable for private hospitals to deal with. In formal terms, patients' rights still apply to the elderly medical patients and psychiatric patients, but in the real world they are not worth anything because there are simply not enough resources in the public health services to solve those tasks. This will mean that they cover only those areas where there are private alternatives, i.e. typically knee, back, hip and obesity operations. There is therefore a large group of patients who will find that the rights are not worth much, because when the resources are not there they cannot be fulfilled. That is why I think that what is most interesting in this debate is to ensure that there are sufficient resources in the health services to enable the tasks to be carried out and that the absolutely necessary priorities, which will then take place in the health care sector, are carried out on the basis of health professional judgements. So we must give health care back to health professionals, so that it is really the patients who need treatment most that are treated first. This is among other things. Therefore, many of the health professional organisations, as Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen also pointed out, point out that instead of having the relatively rigid treatment guarantee we have today, we should look at a differentiated treatment guarantee which would ensure that all patients were entitled to an explanation so that they could clarify their diagnosis and that the treatment guarantee was differentiated according to whether it is a life-threatening disease. This means that priority will be given to ensuring that the patients most in need of treatment are treated first. I think that this debate is quite appropriate, and that is one of the things that we in the Group of the European People's Party have with us for the negotiations on a health reform. And when we talk about resources, it is at the very heart of the potential bomb that lies not only under our health care, but also under our entire welfare society, namely the flagrant lack of welfare professionals, that is, that we simply find it difficult both to attract and maintain the staff we have so desperately needed. These are nurses, sosus, radiographs, midwives, physiotherapists, ergotherapists and, for that matter, educators. It is generally throughout the welfare society. That is why it will also be one of the areas we need to look at. We can talk about all the structures we want and about all the guarantees we want to give, but if we cannot build on the efforts of those who have to solve the tasks, our welfare professionals, we do not have a well-functioning healthcare system. That is why we need to make increased efforts to ensure this. In addition, I would like to say that some of what we are also going to bring will be a dispute with both the geographical inequality and with the user charges and privatisation that we are already seeing in health care today, so that we continue to have a publicly funded health service with equal and free access, where it is not access to health insurance or the purse that determines what treatment can be given, but that there is precisely sufficient resources to ensure that there is a health-care priority for the tasks to be solved. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we will not be supporting the proposal, but thank you for raising the debate, and we look forward to the negotiations that are in the context of the reform of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142139	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142142	Yes, please. I take a little notice of what the Health Rapporteur for the Enhedslisten mentions here in relation to life-threatening diseases and what other offers are. We also have something called psychiatry, which I know is a major concern of the health rapporteur. I spoke the other day to a mother of a child with anxiety who had taken a whole year to get the child accepted as a patient in the system. She could tell that she, among other things... had been to a meeting where there had been eight people in the room who were supposed to decide what was going to happen to this child. There are some structural things there which simply need to be addressed, because it is no use for a whole year to go by before the child is treated. I also received a request from a mother the other day, who had finally been given a search site at the Aleris-Hamlet Hospital, because the region could not run, and then they had used the free choice of hospital in relation to the right of investigation, and then there had been an opportunity to get a seat at the Aleris-Hamlet Hospital, which could run in 40 weeks' time rather unsatisfactory. But there are some things that we need to do away with. And I think these patient rights can be quite good, especially when it comes to children.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142259	I fully agree with that, namely that the conditions that exist in, among others. Psychiatry is deeply unsatisfactory. The point is, of course, that we will not solve this by simply introducing a guarantee, because if we do not ensure that there are staff and resources to be able to carry out those tasks, the guarantee is worth nothing. Then you can have a guarantee that you can go somewhere else, but if there are no other psychiatrists to go to, it doesn't solve the challenge. That is why the task is to ensure that we have sufficient resources, that we have sufficient welfare professionals, regardless of whether they are specialists in psychiatry, whether they are children's and young psychiatrists, whether they are general practitioners, whether they are nurses, sosus or midwives. It is about ensuring that we have a staff to do the job, otherwise the guarantee is worth nothing. Because we need someone who can solve the specific task, and that is why my message is that we have to invest in this. Because I fully agree that it is quite unfair and inadequate treatment to receive, and I also find it deeply unsatisfactory that we are standing now so long after a technical proposal for a psychiatry action plan has been put forward and still waiting to get started on those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142407	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142408	Yeah, and my point is a little bit compared to this thing about releasing competences in public. Because when you hear how much resources can be used for manpower, in other words public employees, when you can get started with treatment, I think that is quite inadequate. That is why I believe a little that if you put the system under pressure, the store might get going. Now set in motion some treatment for the children who need it, rather than letting a whole year go by, where nothing happens, because people do not get well by standing on a waiting list.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142447	No, they don't, and they don't get well either by sitting at investigation meetings. I think that what has been the challenge is precisely that the system has been put under pressure, so you have to take a very long time to explain why it is that you are not offering treatment to these children and young people or to adults for that matter. No more seats are created by making a guarantee. More places arise from the fact that we get more trained specialists in psychiatry; that we ensure that it becomes more attractive to work there. And that is the way we have to go, and then we should leave it to a precise health assessment to decide who is to be offered treatment. But it is clear that a waiting period of 40 weeks is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142526	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142547	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Left for putting forward the proposal to increase patients' rights to citizens and patients. Patients' rights reduce health inequalities to such an extent. Before patient rights were introduced, we saw that there were all-long waiting lists and that there were some who stepped out of the waiting queue simply because they could either finance the treatment they had to undergo themselves or perhaps had an insurance policy that could pay for it. It is, of course, extremely inequality in health when someone can then get out of the queue. As I see it, the explanation and treatment guarantee is a fundamental right that benefits patients, but there may well be a need to introduce other patients' rights. The Left here mentions a patient-responsible health care professional who is very much required. It has also been tried for many years without really succeeding. That is why there are some who, in many ways, get a real clean treatment because you simply do not have a hand in dealing with what is going on and cannot get the right questions asked to the right people. Package schedules are also an element which should be used not only for heart disease and cancer, but also for the chronically ill. We are very much in agreement with that. The rights of the chronically ill to an annual interview can also make sense, and help improve the quality of the chronically ill. So I can only say that in the Conservative People's Party we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142733	Thank you. There is no brief comment or yes, there was just one for Mr. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142740	I have to do that very, very short. Thank you, sir. Per Larsen for the positive comments. We are very pleased about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142749-2	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142753	Then there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428142802	Thank you. This is an important proposal which, of course, comes in the middle of a time when we are discussing a health reform that we should probably have started discussing years ago. That is why, of course, it is always good to have an additional discussion about it. After all, the minister also indicates that he is concerned about finding solutions to this, and I think that is what is at the heart of this. Both this motion for a resolution from the Left and the next one we have on quality standards are basically about how to ensure the right treatment, the good care course in health care. This proposal is about rights and thus about guaranteeing the right to the right treatment, the right course for the individual patient, and there are a lot of elements that need to play together. We have this famous triangle of municipalities, regions and practitioners that makes it difficult. We also discussed last week, I think it was that the government did not quite live up to the point of having a responsible doctor on the individual courses. The fact that you have a right as a patient to have someone follow you who is someone who has an overview of what a course you have to go through helps to ensure that you get the right treatment in the right places and that you just don't get back into the hospital again and again. That is why this is an important proposal, and it is important to get involved in the ongoing negotiations, because ensuring a focus on the individual patient, ensuring a focus on the coherent healthcare system, ensuring that it is not the patient's problem, that there are different cash boxes, different players running across this, is simply the key issue, so that we can ensure that the framework we create supports the individual patient. Therefore, this is actually a proposal that we should discuss much more. We will certainly not be discussing it much more today, because the Minister will of course say that it belongs in the negotiations, but we have at least taken it up now, and we in the Danish People's Party warmly support the proposal and hope that we will bring it into the negotiations so that we actually get something to happen. That's central.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428143009	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428143012	I have to thank you, sir. Per Larsen, and also thanks to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the positive comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428143020	Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428143030	Thank you. As a small service announcement, I can say that the Left does not need to press in and thank me for supporting the proposal. I would really rather have a beer afterwards to support the proposal. So you can do that. Then we can fix it that way. We think this is a fine proposal. I like the idea of giving people choice and giving them the right to choose where they think the treatment is best. Words such as continuity and flexibility and trust and security also sound good for New Citizens. So we look forward to it. It is, after all, part of the health negotiations in which we are also looking forward to getting even more involved. I'll take a look at the minister. Let it just be the words, and then the Left can come up and give it a beer later.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428143119	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. In fact, we have reached the rapporteur of the Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Martin Geertsen, who is also the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428143123	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen for his fine words, and thanks to all those who, in addition to pointing out that we also have health negotiations, have actually dealt with the substance of what is the proposal. Over the past 20 years, we in my party have spent quite a lot of time developing and refining patients' rights in the Danish healthcare system, and we think that in cooperation with other parties we have come a very long way. The investigation and treatment guarantees combined with the right to choose private solutions have meant that the individual Dane has been able to return quickly to a normal life of work, education and family life. However, we think that we should move forward, and with this motion for a resolution we propose to extend patients' rights with the aim of creating, overall, more coherence and flexibility for the individual Dane and for the Danish patients. After all, the first part of this proposal, as has also been mentioned, is about assigning a patient responsible health care professional. After all, since 2018, as a cancer patient you have in principle had the opportunity to be assigned to a patient-responsible doctor. At the same time, the regions offer a patient-responsible physician for other types of disease if and when the regions consider it relevant for the individual patient. The purpose of the scheme is to increase the safety, quality and continuity of the individual patient. When I say in principle, it is because there is probably a need to look it through, in relation to whether the patient's doctor is working as intended everywhere. In any case, we want to confirm and standardize the system of clear responsibility for the individual patient's disease course. The patient responsible physician or patient responsible health care professional shall be a named person or a defined team of persons with overall responsibility for the patient's care course. They can be contacted so that you can seek advice from them as long as you are connected to a hospital, or across the Danish healthcare system. When we propose to make the patient responsible health person a real patient right, it is because we experience that many people get lost in the Danish healthcare system, so to speak. It may be the chronic patient who goes across departments or across sectors, the patient with psychiatric disorders or the elderly medical patient. In our opinion, we must establish a right where a patient responsible health care person or a team of people hold you in hand when walking across departments or sectors of the Danish healthcare system. The second part of the proposal deals with the right to more than one package. The so-called cancer package has been a huge success. Package schedules do a lot of things, but here they happen. the description and follow-up of the course of disease management for patients from the suspicion of disease to the explanation for treatment and follow-up. With packages, cancer patients have been placed at the heart of the Danish health care system. We think that you can learn from and should learn from many other places in the Danish healthcare system. The number of elderly medical patients, patients with chronic diseases and patients with mental disorders requiring treatment will, unfortunately, increase considerably in the coming years. Many of these patients need studies and treatments across the different branches of the Danish healthcare system, but they do not experience sufficient association in the patient course. That is why we are inspired by the package in the field of cancer. We want the packages to be introduced in much more areas than they are today. The third part of our proposal concerns the right to an annual health interview. I think we should think more about prevention and therefore we should gradually introduce an annual health interview for certain patients with chronic illness. Here, of course, there must be a focus on whether the existing treatment works as intended and is sufficiently coherent, but the conversation can also be about more general living conditions and challenges in living with a disease. In fact, the inspiration comes to this proposal from the tooth area. After all, Denmark has a world-class dental care, which is among other things. is based on the good prevention efforts that result from the Danes' regular visits to the dentist. The prevention interview for chronic patients may take place either in a general practitioner, in the hospital, in the doctor responsible for treatment or in the patient responsible for health care. The final form of this new right seems to us to be further developed and fleshed out in collaboration between Danish Regions, KL, professional organisations and patient organisations. The last part of our proposal is about granting the right to digital consultations. We think we should learn from the good experiences we have had with digital consultations from the time of corona. That is why, in our view, we need to introduce this completely new digital patient right, which can be used when it is, of course, a healthy one. The new digital right will put the patient at the centre even more. With the new right, the patient can have more flexibility and more freedom of choice between the physical and the digital meeting with the health care system. Often this opportunity for the digital meeting with health care will be attractive to avoid transport and logistics, or because any waiting time is better spent at home than in a waiting room. So it will not just provide a better experience for the individual. Rightness can also help to make our health care even more effective. In addition to providing patients with a new digital right, through new digital opportunities, we also want to strengthen the opportunity for relatives to participate in consultations or patient processes at all. It can, for example, be done. be relevant when family members or other close relationships live in other parts of the country. It should, of course, be stressed that this is a new right for the patient, who can opt for the digital meeting with the health service, where it is healthy in terms of health. Of course, this should not be a duty for the individual. Of course, if you feel comfortable at the physical appearance, you need to take advantage of it. All in all, we hope that the Danish Parliament will look favourably on this small package of different new rights for Danish patients. I look forward to further work on our motion for a resolution in committee and elsewhere where appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428143757	Thank you, Mr President, to the Left's health rapporteur. Martin Geertsen. There is no wish for short remarks to the rapporteur. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428143824	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428143837	The proposal here is about the introduction of a national quality plan for close health care. This is an important issue, and it is a subject which the government is also very concerned about. I know that our municipalities are very concerned about this. They have many tasks, but they also have to make sure that there is good quality everywhere to solve the tasks. And that is also at the heart of the parties. If you read the government's proposal for a health reform I think it has been put forward here just before the end of the year, you will also see that the proposal for a national quality plan is exactly included in the proposal for a health reform. That is precisely part of the current negotiations. Let me just try to add a few words to the content itself. The general thrust of the proposal is that there is a great need for a national quality plan which gradually expands efforts in the near health care sector. We fully agree with that. Because it will benefit the patients and the citizens, yes, some have been patients and have then been discharged, and they are therefore receiving help and, indeed, sometimes also treatment in the near health care system. Of course, you have a right to high-quality interventions across the country. It is also to ensure that we have a more robust healthcare system that can take care of the many older citizens, citizens with chronic diseases, who are already far more than there were just a few years ago, and where developments just continue in the coming years. Therefore, on the basis of recommendations from the Danish Health Authority, we have presented the initiative on a national quality plan in the government's proposal for a health reform. It is our proposal that the first steps in this quality plan will be to strengthen the municipal emergency functions, which we know already today are doing a great deal of work for the many elderly medical patients in particular. It is good for citizens so that they can get a better job in or close to their own home, and it is also a great relief to hospitals that municipal emergency services can handle the last treatment after hospitalization. But then it's a step. In addition, we have proposed better patient-oriented prevention efforts for citizens with chronic diseases. It can be diabetes, col, cardiovascular disease, some muscle and skeletal disorders. And that is to prevent a worsening of the disease, which may require intensive treatment, and that is to prevent the development of more diseases. It can be in the form of training efforts, nutrition guidance, patient education and other things that give citizens a greater understanding of their own illness, and how to monitor and influence disease development. Finally, it is our proposal that further steps in the quality plan need to be implemented on a regular basis, but this has to be done as our municipalities build up their capacity and competences, because we know that there are not too many employees. So that competence building must take place, while at the same time developing the quality plan with further steps. That is precisely what we are discussing in the negotiations on health reform. This is a crucial step. We cannot continue to give our municipalities more and more tasks and send our patients to the municipalities if there is no guarantee of quality in all municipalities, wherever you as a citizen meet our health services. So you do that more and more close to where you live in the municipality, which is positive. But that's where we need this quality. I would say that this is not something that we imagine and propose should happen on the Christiansborg side alone. We are proposing to create a stakeholder forum with relevant actors, including patient associations that can follow this work. And then we will regularly give the Danish Health Authority the task of providing the detailed professional descriptions. The implementation will then of course take place in dialogue. It will often be with these hopefully future health clusters, which the Danish Parliament is discussing in a legislative proposal, also in the spring. So thank you for the floor. I look forward to discussing these matters with the parties in the context of the negotiations on health reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144338	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144342	Thank you for that and thank you for receiving this motion for a resolution from the Minister. I'm in on the emergency places in the municipalities. I think that makes sense, that is to say, to get to grips with it too. I have a little something to say about whether the Minister believes that quality standards should also be made right now in the first place in relation to people with chronic suffering. That is my one question. The second issue is that we have a number of other proposals, and we did so in 2019 in our health reform there, for example. rehabilitation of cancer patients, rehabilitation of people with brain damage. Was it something that the Minister could see included in the agreement that a number of parties are likely to enter into at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144434	Yeah, it's perfectly obvious. It's a job that's going to happen in the municipalities, i.e. these rehabilitation efforts. And if you take a disease like stroke that hits one in seven Danes, we can only see that there are huge differences, both in the acute effort, that is to say to get a quick, quick effort, and it is minutes that are involved here, but also great differences in how good you are at rehabilitation and rehabilitation, and it can make a really life-changing difference if you get the right help at the right time with the appropriate quality, and precisely stroke is one of the things we write about in our health reform proposals. It is quite obvious that there must also be a strengthening of quality there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144528	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144529	I have two questions for the Minister here, one might say. One is that the Minister sees that the Danish Health Service must play the same role with regard to the municipal part of the health service as it does with regard to what is going on in the specialised health service, that is to say to have the controller function and ensure that quality is in order. That is one question. The second question: the municipalities will certainly now say that they would like to get some funding. Is the Minister willing to give it to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144556-2	The latter is certainly, they say it all the time, it is also their job. On the first question: it is not exactly the same thing, I think, because it is not the same type of task that you carry out in a highly specialised hospital and out in a municipality where you are much, much closer to the citizen and depending on the situation of the citizen. So that's why it can't be one into the same thing. But it will be national requirements for quality standards, which means that it will go from can-tasks to shell tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144633	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144635	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Health for the speech. There is none of this we can do without the resources to do so, and that is why I just want to hear about something from the Minister for Health in the first place. Knowing that we have a future in which we have an increasing number of elderly people, including more treatment-intensive elderly people, is it a prerequisite for doing so here that we at least keep our hands below the level we have now, so that we ensure that we follow the demographic trait, so that we at least ensure that increased resources are added to the increasing number of elderly people, because that is a prerequisite for any solution to this problem? That is one question. The second question is as follows: Martin Geertsen's question: we already know today that there is geographical inequality between municipalities, and if we are to overcome geographical inequality and prevent the municipalities with the largest proportion of treatment-intensive elderly people and at the same time also the most challenging economy from having to cut back on other areas, would the Minister not agree that we need to provide some means to overcome the geographical inequality that we know exists today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144743	First of all, I fully agree with that. We cannot continue to have a situation where there are more patients, more with chronic diseases, and where the tasks just tower up in our health care, both regional and municipal, which is what we are talking about. We cannot continue to do so if we are not ready here from Christiansborg to say that the money must also keep up. When the number of tasks increases as the number of patients increases, the money must also keep up. I think this is a completely fundamental premise that it will be possible to do so at all. But it's not even enough, and that's what I hear, too. Peder Hvelplund say, because one thing is to keep up with more patients, but that is the current quality, and that is not our ambition, because our ambition is to strengthen quality. In some places it works well, but there are many places where it is not, and it is true that it is where the money is small, that the number of chronic patients may be many compared to others, so it is clear that there will be an economic priority here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144844	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144845	Thank you. I am glad to hear the Minister say that, and therefore I am rather annoyed that no more funds have been set aside for the government's initiative now, but it is clear that this is one of the things we are going to push for in the negotiations, precisely because we know that there is geographical inequality today. And it can be said that simply imposing more requirements on municipalities without ensuring that funds are involved means that either geographical inequality will continue to exist, or there will be municipalities cutting down on other parts of the core welfare to afford it. So just acknowledge that the Minister also recognises the issue, and I can at least guarantee that it will be a track that Enhedslisten will pursue in the further negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144933	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144934	It is no surprise that these are the demands of Enhedslisten, and it is also a praise to Enhedslisten that you are so precise in your policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144944	The next brief remark is to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428144947	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister, who says many things with which I agree. I would like to know whether the Minister is not considering these national quality standards, which I hear we all agree that we should have where, on the one hand, we could have a model where, if we put it at the forefront, we decide very rigidly from in here that it should be so and so that everyone should do it, and, on the other hand, we have more freedom of how regions or municipalities want to achieve in line with what we choose to have as standards. Has the Minister considered the balance between the two?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145017	Yes, that is a good question, and it is absolutely central. But I am aware that an organisation such as KL, which is really on guard over local self-government, which I am also in favour of, says that they need it here, so that it goes from too great a difference and too little grip on quality to a national quality plan in these various areas, and I also hear that the same is said by patients' organisations and indeed also by the employees of municipal health services, which means that it is not enough to deliver on it. A great engine in delivery is for us to see these future health clusters that regions and municipalities need to work together on, and they are not the same. We can look at a map, and we know the demographics and health conditions and challenges, and both the recruitment challenges and the health challenges are different from cluster to cluster, and there you will have to have a responsibility to lift in the place where you are. But we cannot accept it if we like to compromise on quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145128	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145129	I fully agree with that. Of course, you have to have some national quality standards, so we don't have this postcode lottery that decides how you're being treated. So I am very pleased to hear the Minister say this here, and I look forward to discussing more, how to find a balance between how to choose to do the task assigned to you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145146	Yeah, and so do I. I guess you'll have to say, when it's from Mr. Knox. Martin Geertsen's page was previously asked about the Danish Health Authority that there will also be some professionally-funded presentations here, where the Danish Health Authority organises the work which is based on the health profession in this country, which the Danish Health Authority pulls in and gets it done. And then we have to see how it can be translated and how we can get those structures done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145213	Thank you to the Minister for Health. There are no more brief comments to the Minister for Health, and that is how the rapporteur begins, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145225	Thank you. We need to develop and strengthen the close health care system, and this is also one of the reasons for the health reform launched by the government last month, and we need to ensure better cooperation and transitions between municipalities, regions and practitioners, in other words, to have eradicated this notorious and famous Bermuda triangle, which is referred to in our health care system. Part of this exercise is about more treatment being moved to the municipalities, and in this respect it is of course important that 98 different small health systems with 98 different quality targets do not arise. The near health service must not become a postal code lottery where the quality depends on the municipality in which you live. There must be freedom to think in local solutions, and it is not certain that the exact same model works everywhere. But this must never be at the expense of quality, and that is precisely why the government has proposed a national quality plan, in the first place in two areas: citizens with chronic diseases and patients who are being discharged from hospitals and who need follow-up and control and conversations. It is my clear impression, after the government has launched this health initiative, that there is generally broad support for the introduction of a national quality plan and I am delighted both politically and also among the many organisations and actors in this area. So the Social Democrats cannot support this proposal anyway. We would call for the discussion to be taken into the right forum, namely in the health negotiations that are going on just now, that we can make a common and good and long-term health reform, which not only zooms down on a few elements, but which has the overall picture, so that we put it in a comprehensive framework for the development of our health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145421	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145425	The Socialist rapporteur makes it sound like he invented the deep plate here. It was all the way back in 2019 that the then government made the political agreement with the Danish People's Party, which, like the national quality standards, boosted it. It's just for history's sake, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145448	I didn't hear a question. But my call was: take these very good ideas, where we seem to be on the same lines, and where there is actually an open door to our government and to our health ministry to succeed in making a health reform, and that we may even be able, contrary to the previous government, to make a broad political health reform, which may even survive a parliamentary election, regardless of how such a parliamentary election will take place. So let us do what the previous government did not succeed with: make a broad and good and long-lasting political agreement. It is not certain that it is precisely here today that we are going to do so, but we can do so if we want, in the negotiations on a health reform that are going on right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145541	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145551	Thank you. And thank you to the Left for putting forward the proposal on quality standards for the municipal health sector. We have noted that this has become a subject which must also be addressed in the forthcoming negotiations on health reform. In the SF we agree with the government and, I believe, also the Left that the close and coherent health care is an important theme in the forthcoming negotiations. I am also convinced that it is possible to prevent unnecessary admissions, for example. That makes sense for a number of reasons. Prevention is just better than cure, and for most elderly people it is both difficult and stressful to have to be hospitalized over and over again. In fact, most of us would prefer to be at home when we are ill, and we would also like to be treated at home if it is even possible. But let me also stress that in the years to come we are extremely challenged. If we had all the money in the world, we would not be able to recruit enough staff for health care and care for the elderly. This is a very serious situation, I think, and therefore I am also concerned if the answer is more of the same, which helps to push the health care system. I firmly believe that, in practice, standards become too easily checklists for the tasks to be carried out, and we risk both over-treating and under-treating. No human being is the same, and the right effort would be individual and dependent on the professional judgement that skilled doctors and healthcare professionals can deliver in relation to the individual. However, I also recognise that no one can do everything and that it can therefore make sense to seek support for professional assessments in the form of guidance on how to identify patients with more specific or special symptoms. It is my experience that health professionals can do much more than what various standards describe. Good education and experience together can provide the basis for the right prevention and treatment in time. I would very much like to risk that professionalism. Indeed, I am confident that it is in cooperation with the patient or the citizen that the best solutions can be agreed. As I have said, this is a subject addressed in the negotiations on a health reform, and we are also looking forward to discussing the best solutions in this area, which is why the SF is of course not voting in favour of this proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145831	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Stinus Lindgreen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145839	Thank you. Inequality in health comes in many forms. Denmark is a small country with a high quality healthcare system. Yet, unfortunately, we see that there may even be very large local differences in the treatment given to some patients. It must not be a postal code lottery where it is your residence that determines the quality of your treatment. We have to put an end to this, so much to the Left for raising this issue in this Chamber today, because we in the Radical Left are in complete agreement with Mr Tugendhat. Martin Geertsen and others in saying that we must ensure a close and coherent high-quality healthcare throughout the country. More and more tasks have moved out close to the patient, and national quality standards are the key to ensuring quality. There are a lot of good ideas in the Left's proposal, and I fully agree that national quality standards must be developed in close cooperation with the main health actors, so that we ensure not only the quality of health care but also local anchoring. That is why I am very much looking forward to further discussions during the current negotiations. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428145952	Thank you, sir. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428150002	Thank you for that, President. And again thank you to the Left for raising a theme that we also at the moment. sits and discusses in the current debates on health reform. However, as I said earlier, it is also an opportunity to discuss it in this Chamber, and that is quite good, I think. We fully agree that, if we are to overcome the geographical inequality that we already see there today, it is necessary to ensure that we have national quality standards in selected areas, which the Left also outlines here. And that's one of them. in the light of the recent health reform in which we established quality fund buildings, i.e. super hospitals, where there was both centralisation and specialization, which means that a large number of tasks will gradually move into the nearest health care system. This is because what we call lay time, i.e. how long you are in hospital, is gradually becoming shorter and shorter. And of course it is positive; no one wants to be longer in hospital than is very necessary. At the same time, however, this also means that people are being discharged from hospitals considerably earlier than they did before, and thus that there is still a need for treatment. And it is clear that we also need to ensure that there is not too much geographical inequality in relation to the treatment that is offered. And it is precisely there that national quality standards can be applied. What I, on the other hand, think is absolutely central to this is that we ensure, on the one hand, that adequate funding is provided, which means that at least we must continue to guarantee that the demographic features can be covered, and, on the other hand, that there will also be an additional investment which will ensure that precisely those municipalities which have a high proportion of the elderly who are in need of treatment, who often also have the most pressured economy and who also have challenges in relation to being able to attract health professionals, receive additional help, that they receive additional resources, so that we can precisely overcome the inequalities that exist in health. Because there shouldn't be any difference between being a patient in Hjallerup or Hellerup. Of course, exactly the same treatment should be available. And that is why it is an important prerequisite that we also ensure that funds are taken out. In our view, however, the fact that there may be differences in the extent to which the task is to be solved in a large municipality, such as the United Kingdom, is where flexibility should be looked at. The City of Copenhagen, or whether it is to be solved in Guldborgsund or Jammerbugt. It can be said here that in some places it will be a task that the municipality itself can solve; elsewhere it may require inter-municipal cooperation or that it is the region that solves it or that it is done in cooperation between municipalities and regions. And that is where I think we have to look at creating a kind of common budget where we say from Christiansborg that we are allocating the funds to solve the task, but where there may be a certain freedom out locally to find out who is actually doing the job. Because what matters isn't who does the job, but that the job is done. And that would certainly allow it to be cooperation between municipalities and regions, or that the region could do so alone. So I think it is essential to look at, when we start to introduce these quality standards, that we also ensure that funds are continuously followed to phase them in. And that will certainly be what we in the Enhedslist will be taking into the negotiations on a health reform to ensure that resources are set aside to enable the task to be solved so that we can do away with both social and geographical inequalities in health. And that is why we are not going to support the motion for a resolution here, but are looking forward to discussions in the negotiations on the reform of health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428150414	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428150431	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Left for working to ensure that the former bourgeois government and the Danish People's Party's wish for national quality standards in the municipal area is included in the agenda. Indeed, there should not be 98 different offers to patients based on geographical differences. Hospitals are currently under a lot of pressure, and the municipalities must, of course, take over tasks in a number of areas. It is prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, etc., both in the somatic and the psychiatric fields. And one's high quality standards also ensure that the hospital does not have to contact the individual municipalities every time a patient has to be printed in order to get an overview of what it is for some offers the municipalities can actually offer. So we support the proposal that the Left has put forward here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428150534	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428150543	Thank you for that, President. As with the previous proposal, this proposal is basically about ensuring that the individual patient throughout the country is properly treated. We're setting up super hospitals all over the country this time, and I heard a doctor say at one point that they should be so super effective that patients basically came unconscious in and unconscious out. This means that there has to be a system that can take over from those patients and handle them in the condition they might be in, and that is where the municipalities come in. That is where we need to ensure quality and quality standards at national level, and that is where this comes in. I would like to thank the Left for bringing forward this proposal. The Danish People's Party could easily have been on the proposal too. After all, we shared the idea of making it back with the previous government, and of course we think this is an excellent proposal, because we simply need to work on ensuring that we can maintain quality in all municipalities. Then you can discuss how to use the health clusters, which we will also discuss next week. Is there anything you can do across? The Enhedslisten mentions that there is something where some municipalities can be too small, and that is absolutely right. We have the Bermuda triangle between municipalities, regions and practitioners, and how do we ensure that patients do not disappear in it, but in fact always receive the treatment they need, regardless of who is responsible for it? That must be the main task, and that is what we need to resolve. I assume we will resolve this in the negotiations with the Minister, but otherwise we will have to take this proposal forward and get it adopted. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428150726	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428150732	Thank you. I have heard several people say this about the fact that there should be no difference in treatment offers due to geography. That sounds true, but the question is also whether there is a difference due to geography or whether there is a difference due to wrong and bad political decisions and priorities. It's two different things. I like the idea that there are equal treatment options for Tove in Hjørring and Tove in Hvidovre. I think it is a sound principle and it is a principle that we also celebrate in New Citizens, and we also use it in saying that the money must follow the citizen. Whether this ensures that there is really a treatment option is not certain. Therefore, it may be a good idea with some general standards, but I just think that one should be very careful so that it does not become a retail management. That is not what I am hearing from the Left either, but we must be careful that it does not become a detailed management in relation to how we get to where we want to go. In any case, this is something that is fundamentally contrary to the decentralisation agenda that we in the New Citizens' Party want. So you have to be very careful when doing these things, so that it doesn't turn into increased centralisation, where you take away the professional knowledge and competence that they have out there, to deliver it. It's just to raise a little red flag. So I agree with these things that, if we agree on a health reform, there must be funding if there are any new measures. That is also why, in the New Citizens' Party, we presented a financial bill which actually added 3 billion to health. kr. annual and every year. Because we think there's a need for a boost in this area. That's where we found the money. Then there were some who did not agree with the funding and thought it was better to give the money to Danmarks Radio than to the health care system. Our priorities are clear: we would much rather give the funds for health care than give them to Denmark's Radio.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428150940	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens, and I can give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Martin Geertsen from the Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428150950	Thank you for that and thank you for your comments. In view of the fact that we do not want to discuss it at all in this Chamber, there have been remarkably many comments anyway, can we not say? Well, this proposal, in all its simplicity, is to make sure that there is one, as has also been mentioned, uniformly high standard, in relation to what can be expected as a Dane from the municipal part of the health service. And that no matter where you live in the country. Today, unfortunately, it is a bit of a postcode lottery, and as we see increased specialisation of the Danish hospitals, we have also seen that more and more health tasks have slipped, if I may say so, over to the municipalities. And I really think that is positive enough as a starting point. After all, it is a good thing that we see health care moving closer to the individual citizen, whether it is in the local community, the general practitioner or even in people's own homes. However, it becomes problematic when it ends up in that there is too much difference between the municipality and the municipality in relation to the municipal part of the health service. In addition, we also have the problem of seeing too many re-hospitals simply, that is to say patients who are discharged from the hospital and who are quickly reinstated, because the way in which patients are taken into the municipalities, if I may say so, does not have sufficient quality. After all, some of the issues we went into as early as the last parliamentary term when we were in government, and we made a health reform, for which there was no majority after the elections and peace now be with it. However, the reform of health gave the impetus, as something very important and almost as such half a backbone in it, to set national quality standards as a municipal part of the Danish health service. Therefore, in all its simplicity, with this motion for a resolution, we are going to address this question again by speeding up the work of drawing up nationally established quality standards for the municipal part of the Danish health service. And those standards must therefore contribute to a strengthened and more uniform quality and will help prevent unnecessary rehousing, at least from the outset. Quality standards, which we are talking about here, are basically about describing the professionalism and quality that the municipalities must deliver. We have proposed that there should be, among other things: standards should be introduced in the areas of prevention, treatment of chronic patients, rehabilitation of cancer patients and patients with brain damage and in relation to psychiatric patients. And, of course, it is also quite obvious to introduce quality standards for the many of our older fellow citizens who today experience that, with the current model, they are going out and in from the Danish hospitals, if I may say so. We have to do everything we can to avoid that for the future. In conclusion, I would just like to say that the motion for a resolution stresses the importance of drawing up these quality standards in cooperation with the main health care providers. And that is to say, the National Association of Municipalities, the Danish Regions, the professional organisations and the patient organisations. I look forward to the further work on this motion for a resolution in committee and where, in the opinion of the people, this should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428151307	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen, rapporteur on health. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428151325	The debate is open, and the first one I give the floor is the Minister for Education and Research. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428151359	Thank you. Thank you for the floor and also to the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the question of whether we can do more to support the presence of the right competences in the pedagogical-psychological advice, also called PPR, an abbreviation, which has probably been repeated some times in today's discussion. I would like to start by pointing out that the government supports the intention of the resolution. Teachers and educators should generally have good opportunities for further education and it should be possible with appropriate continuing training to build competences in relation to PPR's work to help children and parents who need advice, help and support in various ways in relation to day care, school and leisure provision. This can help to help the individual child and to support the inclusion work in schools and other tasks that the primary school must undertake, and in relation to all the staff in primary school, teachers and other, but also cooperation with the parents. A combination of teaching, teaching and psychological skills is needed. Therefore, I would like to initiate a development work to look at various possible models for a psychological mastery training for teachers and educators. In relation to the specific motion for a resolution and the wording, I would remind you that there is currently a study of the PPR. A decision has been taken on this in connection with the conclusion of last year's financial agreement, which also includes the Radical Left, which is among the proposers, in which PPR and various needs are examined in this context. Funds have been allocated to it in the Danish Finance Act 2022 and the study is to be carried out under the auspices of the Ministry of Children and Education. A study of retention, recruitment and further training opportunities within the PPR should be expected to have a major impact on the conclusions of development work as well as on the needs and content of any new training. So, regardless of which way we find further in the work here and the very development of such an education, I would say that there is a need for a close connection with the work being done under the Ministry of Children and Education. And that is one of the things I think we should discuss in the committee work that will follow the debate we have today, i.e. that we find the right timing and that things do not get in the way of each other, but can actually end up playing properly together. I would also like to point out that I have noted that the motion for a resolution states that it is not the intention of the proposal to grant access to a real qualification as a psychologist. In the government, we do not believe that this is the way to go either, that further training of primary school teachers and educators in the field of pedagogical psychology should give authorization as a psychologist. It is an opportunity which has been studied in the past in relation to teacher training and it has not been possible to find a model which the universities considered to be technically sound and which KL could also support. In addition, teacher and pedagogic education should not be courses which are chosen as a detour to becoming a practicing psychologist by students who cannot enter the psychology programme. We need more teachers and educators, and we need more in the PPR with a teacher or educator background. I think there may be a lot of good professional competence in this, i.e. that there are also people with that background in PPR's work. It is a focus of attention for the government that new opportunities for further training do not lead to more teachers and educators training their way out of the profession through attractive training opportunities and building on, for example, the following: the teaching skills that you have. It is not a risk that we think we should take, that is to say, instead of getting something done that means that we have fewer teachers and educators in the profession. It should be used as opportunities for development within it, but not out of it. It's not our intention to do this job, anyway, I want to make that clear. On the contrary, we need the talented teachers and educators and more of them in relation to the whole work of school and day care and leisure facilities. In those words, I hope that you will hear a positive response to the proposal in terms of starting up such a work, and also an intention to achieve a master's training which will give it this way to strengthen the PPR with people from the teaching and teaching profession. And then we will hopefully be able to find each other in the committee's work in relation to how exactly we have to knit it together and how we make sure that the different processes that will then run can work well together and do not tighten each other in different ways. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428151853	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a few brief comments. It's for Mrs. Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428151858	Thank you for your speech, and thank you to the Minister for sharing the ambition of the government to create a psychological superstructure for teachers and educators. I would actually like to use my question to get the Minister to say more about what the Minister thinks it will mean both for children, but also for teachers and educators at school, if it was normal that there were school psychologists who themselves had a background as teachers or educators.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428151926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428151927	I have to say straight away that in this discussion we can approach the fact that there are some debates where it is really my colleague, the Minister for Children and Education, that it would be appropriate to have those debates. As far as educating teachers and educators is concerned, and as far as the competences are concerned, it is with me and under this heading that we are discussing it. The specific needs of the PPR, and what could be further raised by doing an education like this, are, after all, some of the things that would have to be identified in the work on the PPR, which is to be done under the auspices of the Ministry of Children and Education, and which Mrs Lotte Rod's party itself has helped to implement in connection with last year's Finance Law Agreement. But I just want to say, overall, that I think and believe that there is a good point in people I have worked as teachers and educators with all the knowledge and experience they have in that field, and with the child in school or with the child in the leisure offer, on top of that can build some psychological skills that can benefit the work of the PPR. But the detailed content discussion about the design of the PPR etc. I think you should go with the Minister for Children and Education. I'm sorry I went a little late.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152042	It's forgiven. Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152044	Then I would like to follow up on a question which is at least one hundred percent with the Minister of Education. What considerations does the Minister make about the importance of teachers and educators taking such a superstructure close to where they live, and not just one place in the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152102	As a general rule, this is an objective that we as a government are pursuing, namely that there are good opportunities in all parts of the country for education. There I would have liked more goodwill from the Radical Left in this regard, without it being something we are filling the debate with here. But in relation to how such a possible training should be worked together and where it could be taken in the country, I think we should take a few steps down the line before we have to answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152136	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152139	Thank you so much. It is no secret that this is something that has been at my heart for many years now. In fact, the year I started teaching at the teacher seminar was abolished, so why don't you do it for me? But I would really like to ask the Minister, because the Minister is in favour of this proposal, but not in order to restore basically the old cand. psyche education, where you also received a licence: what is the Minister concerned about quite specifically in terms of restoring the education that many people have really enjoyed and which has certainly benefited from around the various schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152220	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152221	The final note here from Mrs Mette Thiesen points out that it is around various schools that have benefited from it, and the work that has then been done in relation to the school is one of the things that I hope we will be able to achieve that an education here would then also have to be directed towards. However, in relation to being able to act as a psychologist in general, to be authorized, there are some professional objections that there is quite a distance from teacher training and to being able to actually be a practicing psychologist. And with the experiments and studies that have been carried out, with the advice I have also received, and with regard to the discussions that have taken place with the universities on their assessments, there is therefore no basis for saying that it is technically the right thing to do, so that this way and this way we should be able to have the full psychological authorisation. Then, as I said, it is essential that we do not create another way to become a psychologist through teacher training, because it must primarily be to be a teacher that you actually start that education, not because you cannot enter the psychology study.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152334	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152335	No. Well, this is basically about me thinking that there's such a broad understanding that education is attractive if you can see that you shouldn't be in the same job for the rest of your life. That's where we've moved on today than we used to be. This is precisely why this is so topical, because it is precisely something that would make teacher training more attractive that you had more opportunities on the other side. I haven't met anyone in the past who would like to study for a cand.pæd.syk., who hasn't been interested in working with children. So I do not share the Minister's concern that one gets out of school. I am not worried about the individual who does this either. But I just wonder a little when one has had an education that really worked really, really well, that one doesn't do it; plus that one can say that of course we must have better teacher training with better quality and higher professional level. But I think we could do something, for example. an intermediate year of upgrading in relation to some of the things that have been the concerns of the teacher seminar, so that one could just have the opportunity to do so here. So doesn't the Minister just see some opportunities for re-establishing the old cand. psyche education?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152445	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152447	I would say that there is clearly some experience and so on. From then on, which I think should be taken into account in the work which we, I sense, will start if there is agreement to it here in the Folketing. But this is not a new discussion, and it has not been possible to find a professionally sound model that both universities and the National Association of Municipalities could support if we were to restore what existed in the past. I think that is also a good point, which we, as politicians, also have to take into account, regardless of what one might want to do politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152527	The next brief remark is to Mrs Gitte Willumsen, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152529	Thank you and thank you for your speech to the Minister. The minister says that we have a challenge at school with a lot of teachers leaving the job and apparently running tired in teaching and teaching and teaching. Does the Minister have any idea what this could mean for the maintenance, other than that you might have a feeling, but does the Minister have any facts that he could bring into play here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152600	It provides an opportunity to answer some of the first part of Mrs Mette Thiesen's question, which I think is a good point. Making sure that there are good opportunities for further education and building on new skills, even when you are trained as a teacher or educator, I think that is a good argument, a good consideration and a good goal to achieve, and being able to say that when you have worked for some years in these subjects, there are some opportunities for you for further education and development within them. I would very much like to look at that and I believe that it can help to make that education more attractive, for some of the reasons that Mrs Thiesen mentioned. What I would like to avoid is that it really leads to a completely different place when we are in a situation where we want to keep up with talented educators and teachers. So to work within school, from leisure offers etc., build upstairs I'm interested in, but the thing about creating such a detour for some who really want to be practicing psychologists in everything else than at school, I don't think we should be trying to create with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152708	Mrs. Gitte Willumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152710	Thank you for your answer. Could the Minister say something about how long the Minister thinks that one should have had a job at school or in a day offer before one should have the opportunity to retrain because one must have some robustness in the subject and some experience to build on? So what's the minister thinking there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152734	Today I have neither the basis nor the established position to be able to say that it has to be precisely so and so many years, but that is clearly one of the things that could be discussed in connection with the organization of such a training, i.e. whether there is a need for a certain number of years of experience. We can, of course, discuss this politically, and it will also be one of the things that we would be able to get some professional suggestions for in connection with this work. Well, we'll have to see that when we start a job like this. But we would like to remind you again that there is another work under the auspices of the Ministry of Children and Education, where we must ensure that they play together. There too it may be that they have some experience that says what is really needed, from teachers and educators who are continuing to train, so that we think it gives the skills we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152816	The next brief remark is to Mr. Stén Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152819	Thank you. And I would also like to thank the Minister for taking it down positively; we shall look forward to further work on that. That is the last comment that the Minister has here in relation to the work being done in the Ministry of Children and Education, to which I will try to ask a little bit, including the speed of the proposal that lies here. It has to play together in some way, and I also think that what the Minister is saying makes a great deal of sense. But I would like to know if the Minister is having talks with the Minister for Children and Education about when it is expected that this will be possible to land so that we can move forward. Because there are some children and some families out there who need a lot of help at school.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428152903	Yes, and again I shall try not to go far into what my colleague, the Minister for Children and Education, has to say. However, in connection with last year's Finance Act, this decision was taken to review the PPR precisely because it wanted to improve all the work that is going on there and address some of the challenges that I can hear from Mr. Sten Knuth said he's preoccupied too. And that includes considerations about education and competences, which is why I am saying that if they arrive at something that is relevant in relation to what an education we are talking about here should contain, then it would be strange to have taken it too far without having had the other experiences with it. And that is also the immediate announcement I have from the Ministry of Children and Education. It would be a little special to conclude on a development work here before completing the second mapping and analysis that has already been decided.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153004	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153005	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Does the Minister know the rear edge of the work that is going on in the other ministry?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153012	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153014	I am not going to be able to say exactly that, but all those who have reached that agreement in connection with last year's Finance Act are interested in the fact that things are going relatively quickly. So I would say that it is at the end of the year or at the beginning of the new year that it is finished. We must then find a good way of finding each other in committee work, in terms of how precisely we formulate how much we would like to have it going with the development of education such as the one we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153047	Thank you, Minister. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Ida Auken. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153101	Thank you very much. After all, we are debating today a proposal tabled by the Left, the Radical Left, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives. They would like to ask the government to make recommendations during the current parliamentary year for a psychological master's degree programme for educators and teachers, so that they can also work in Pedagogical Psychological Counselling, also called PPR. I would like to start by thanking the proposers for putting an extremely important theme on the agenda. As the comments on the proposal show, we are witnessing growing dissatisfaction among children and young people. We simply cannot live with that. We believe it makes very good sense for the PPR to be able to build competences through continuing training of employees in the day-to-day, school and leisure areas respectively. It is therefore also very good that, in addition to this, we are setting up a development work in the lake, which examines various possibilities for a psychological mastery training for teachers and educators, and the work must involve both key stakeholders and the relevant professional environments. We attach great importance to the possibility of continuing training also for teachers and educators. For us, however, it is important that a psychology degree does not lead to more teachers and educators training themselves out of the profession. We need teachers and educators in the day-to-day, school and leisure fields, and education must not become a detour to becoming a general practitioners' psychologist. There has also been a discussion about the time aspect: is it wise to get the big picture drawn up a little more clearly in the study that is in the area of the Minister for Children and Education, which will after all be completed by the end of 2022 or the beginning of 2023? Would it not be wise for us to have it, among other things? have been asked to examine, in other words, the possibilities for better training opportunities, which they need to clarify specifically, and the recommendations for better practice? Would it not be very wise for us to have a reasonably well worked-out offer and the great analysis so that we can build up an educational opportunity that matches it? This is certainly one of the things we would very much like to discuss in the committee's work, and we hope that we can meet in committee on a joint report.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153311	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment and it is for Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153316	The social democracy here emphasizes that teachers and educators must not be trained away from the profession. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur what importance it may have for people to want to start teaching and teaching if they can see more opportunities for where they can go afterwards, i.e. the feeling of open doors.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153339	We think it is very important that there is that feeling of open doors, and that is clearly one of the things we need to look at when we look at recruitment, that is, how you can experience that there are plenty of continuing training opportunities. But for us it should not be open doors that say that he would rather have been a psychologist, so now he or she is going this way to get a license. What we have to do today is precisely to strengthen the system where you come with both a teacher's knowledge, experience, education and then building psychological knowledge around it. So for us to see, it would be very reluctant to become an open door that would then turn into a walk-through door.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153412	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153413	Then I would like to ask about it in time, because I would like such an education to start from August 2023. If, then, you have to rewind backwards, how long you have to set it up, when should it be decided, and when should such an investigation be completed? It has a meaning if we could be done with this before the end of this parliamentary year, which runs until October.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153440	Now I have heard other wiser rapporteurs, even while we were discussing this, say whether it is not better that we do this properly than that we rush it. Having set aside money in the Finance Act for a more thorough investigation and given an idea of what some of the problems are, what the shortcomings are and what training gaps there are in this area, we think it is wise to do so rather than to say that we must speed things up now, because it is becoming hasty, the negotiations are being rushed, and we also need to involve all the stakeholders who have different views on some of these issues. So we think it's smarter just to give time to do this job.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153514	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153517	Thank you so much. I would really like to hear something from the rapporteur. Both the rapporteur and the Minister have mentioned this, saying that it would be better not to turn into a revolving door where one is training oneself out of school. Are there any figures known to the rapporteur that this is going to happen? What is the rapporteur's basis for this? I can just say that I have not seen any figures on it, and I have not met a single teacher who has had a wish for this and who has not wanted to work with children. It's just to understand where this concern comes from.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153552	Thank you. One might then wonder why New Citizens are so obsessed with authorization if it is not about leaving school. Because if you can get a job, which you might call a school psychologist, but you may have to have a different title, but which is that you can work with a psychological knowledge and a teacher's knowledge, it is not essential that you get a licence that gives you a number of other problems, both in relation to universities that do not agree that you have the necessary conditions for obtaining such a licence, and there is no agreement between KL and universities in this area either. So there's gonna be a whole series of other problems. But no, I do not have any very specific figures, nor do I know whether the rapporteur does, but otherwise we will of course be happy to hear them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153634	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153636	I actually said in my question that I do not, and that is why I am very surprised that you continue to use it as an argument. I am not worried about obtaining a licence, nor am I worried about choosing to go out and become a child psychologist in a private practice in the long term. I'm not worried about that either. What I'm worried about is what we're seeing right now in the PPR, where it's very, very young, completely newly trained MSc that comes out, gets some experience, a year and a half, and then goes on. A thousand times I would rather have Bente, who has been a teacher for 20 years and who has control of the children and who has control of the parents, and who can come out with his professional skills and hopefully also with such a superstructure on here. And I'm not worried either, if Bente will get a license. So I just don't understand where that concern comes from. It is basically about whether we should re-establish the education that has actually been in the past and that was good or whether we should do something new.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153732	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153733	I think we two are equally enthusiastic about Bente, because bringing in the teaching profession and then getting a psychology degree on it is really that, almost all schools have an opportunity to access, so that you do not have to have psychologists or psychiatrists in all cases, because there are a lot of people who do not need to have a diagnosis, there are a lot of people who do not need to get into that area, but who actually need help at the school where they are. And one of the things we see today is that you have to get to too high a level, you can say, and therefore there are very long waiting times. So we believe more in keeping these teachers and giving them the professional superstructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153807	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Stén Knuth. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428153816	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Conservative, Radical and Danish People's Party for the cooperation on the motion for a resolution here. I have many greetings from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, who was actually involved in the work here. I'm so her substitute today low. The motion for a resolution here speaks in terms of inclusion and the inclusion agenda, as it lags behind. We had a hearing on this yesterday in the Landstingshall, where virtually all the parties were involved, and some of what was said by the various parties was that there is a lack of money, that there is a lack of time, that children are not consulted, that there are too long procedural times and that there are too bad explanations. PPR investigations are missing, and cases are then referred back from the appeal body because there is a lack of PPR; cooperation across the professional institutions in the municipalities is not there; troublesome rules; knowledge bank is missing; and we also lack knowledge, and it speaks in the motion for a resolution here about getting some more help for the PPR. The proposal here instructs the government in this parliamentary year to do an investigation work that makes recommendations on the organisation, structure and content of teaching and teaching courses, where PPR can assist and understand the teaching staff in day-to-day provision and in schools. The Minister talks about the importance of this and also had a positive approach to the proposal itself here to continue working on it, and we are very pleased about that. But it's just that while we're talking and while that work is going on, time goes by, and the kids, families and classmates in the schools out there need some help. Here is then a relevant proposal to be able to cooperate in relation to the PPR work. And I hope that we can find a majority in committee for a report that will enable us to move forward and move forward quickly, because yesterday's hearing showed that it is so lacking in terms of inclusion. That is why we are also pressing for the agenda itself here. I look forward to the committee reading. I do not know whether it will be with me or whether it will be with Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, we shall see that, but we naturally support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428154052	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428154101	Thank you very much. When a child does not thrive in one of the schools in the country, it is important that there is a rapid response and that the child gets the right help, but in order to be able to provide the right help it is also important that as a professional you have the knowledge and skills to know what to do. There is also a need for a more fertile basis for specialised knowledge in schools, and therefore there must also be the possibility for teachers and educators to be trained and specialised. This is true, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It is important for me to say that we in the SF are incredibly in agreement with the intention of the proposal, but we also think that the cause of this progress comes a little from the side line, and I would like to expand on that. It is important that we make some decisions on a qualified basis, and we ourselves have helped to allocate some funds in the budget law in 2021 for a study of the PPR in order to strengthen the PPR. We are still waiting to see the result of that. There is no doubt that some will say that PPR is in need, but I say that maybe it is quite hard to say, but PPR has challenges both with recruitment and retention, and there are plenty of reasons for that. But we need to see the analysis in order to see how we can possibly strengthen it. There is also a proposal to strengthen teacher training. What the contents of it are, we do not yet know, so we actually think it would be good if we took it in the order that we look at how we should strengthen teacher training when we talk about inclusive learning environments before we take such a far-reaching decision as to back this up. There are framework conditions in the field of school, and we heard about this at yesterday's hearing. There are a lot of framework conditions that allow us to take a lot of action, but if the framework conditions are not changed, it will mean that it does not necessarily have the necessary effect. So we would like to sign for the intention of the motion for a resolution. We think this is an important agenda, but we just think that we should wait to see how we can strengthen teacher training and PPR before considering whether we can support this psychology degree.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428154405	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. This is from Mrs Gitte Willumsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428154414	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech and enthusiasm for the proposal that we have put forward in this Chamber. I would like to hear from the rapporteur what he mentions about the new teacher training, that is to say that it should have an impact on how we are going to put this new thing together. This surprises me a little, as the new education must first be decided and enter into force, which means that there will be a lot of years before we start to see these newly trained teachers from this education come out and work. So how do you see the connection between the long move that is and what we want to do now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428154501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428154503	But you always have to work on several tracks, both on the short track and on the long track. I would say that it may sound enticing, and almost as if we had completed the psychology degree programme, so that from August there are some teacher-educated psychologists, but that is not the reality. There is also a fairly long stretch. So the challenge is for us to see how much the need is. I very much recognise the importance of some people with a psychological background who have experience and practice from the real world. You shouldn't overwhelm that at all. And we are basically by no means opposed to that. However, we are simply saying that, before we put it into effect, we certainly need to clarify which other elements are involved in the long run. It is no secret that many of the teachers who previously took that training are no longer in PPR; they have also sought other ways. So there are also some framework conditions in the work at the schools and in the PPR, which we need to have looked at in order to be able to retain those employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428154610	Mrs. Gitte Willumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428154611	Thank you. I would like to hear the rapporteur say a little bit about what SF thinks about how much experience one has to have as a teacher before one can start this continuing training. I guess there's got to be some reality, some competence and something to move on when you're going in and retraining. I mean, teacher training takes four years, and then you have to have some experience. Or is SF thinking that you can go about it immediately after you have completed your teacher training?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428154648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428154649	At first glance, I do not think that you can go straight ahead, but I cannot stand here and put on years. But it is clear that I think that training is being linked up so that it is also anchored in some practical knowledge from work. So it is clear that it requires that you have been in the profession for a number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428154712	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428154722	In Enhedslisten we agree that there is a need to strengthen Pedagogical Psychological Counselling in the municipalities. Schools and day-to-day services have great challenges in relation to a large number of children and young people who, for various reasons, do not thrive. There is an increasing number of children and young people diagnosed, and we can read in the new VIVE evaluation on the inclusive learning environment and social pedagogy assistance, which we also discussed, as has already been mentioned, at a hearing yesterday that the number of children with support needs has increased significantly. There are simply several children who do not thrive, either in the community of kindergarten or in the school. That is why I think it is quite right from the point of view of the proposers that we need a PPR where there are strong competences, and it is true to note at several levels, for this applies to the individual level in relation to the individual child, but it also applies very much to the whole educational and educational task, so that we do not individualise the problem, but therefore consider it to be a very central part of the overall educational and didactic task. This is also the reason why not only the proposers, but also the parties behind this year's Finance Act... the one we concluded last year... agreed to carry out a mapping of the PPR so that we can become sharper on what challenges it is that need to be dealt with. In the agreement we mention three elements: we mention retention problems, we mention long waiting times, and then we mention better training opportunities in pedagogical psychology. With regard to the latter, i.e. the skills of the employees, I think that we who have moved among the teachers of the primary school and in the organizations have heard time and again: what a pity it was that the Master's degree programme was dropped 18 years ago. I have heard many people argue that it should actually be re-established. The attitudes of other professionals are slightly different. There is, of course, the whole debate that was never touched on here on the issue of authorisation. You always have to think about when the interests of the organization are defended.I come from such a place myself; so I know that and when it is factual and professional assessments that weigh heavily. I think there may be something right in that there may be a problem with having a new road to authorisation. It has been mentioned that it can reinforce the review through the PPR. We have not taken a position on what is wise there, but I would just like to say that I think there are sensible and valid views, whether one way or another. That is why I think it is very wise for us to have a study done. In fact, I hear there is no disagreement there either. The proposal specifically mentions this, and I think it is incredibly important that we listen to the professionals very carefully and that we hear the different angles on it so that we do not jump to hasty conclusions but actually think about them. Because we simply owe it to the schools, the day institutions and the PPR to find a correct solution. So the short of the long term is that we are in agreement with the proposal as it stands here. Otherwise, as the Minister and several rapporteurs have said, we must make it work together sensibly. Now that something has been set in motion from several angles, that is to say the purer educational angle here and then the broader angle between the Finance Law Parties, we have to find a way to do it so that it is connected sensibly. I can see that there is a point of view where one asks: can we not conclude on this, because then we know what has been set aside for the wider discussion? I think it is right to go the other way in saying: let us now get the overall cover and, as part of this, clarify the question of education. I can understand that, if anyone asks: Well, what is the time horizon? I am thinking that we could perhaps clarify in the committee's work what the timetable is for having the cover we have agreed in the Finance Act, otherwise I understand that those who are not in that agreement can be a little impatient in relation to the process and think: well, is it just a diversion we are doing here? We're not interested in that. We are actually interested in pursuing what is proposed in the proposal, but we think it belongs closely linked to the process we agreed in the Finance Act we did last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428155235	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. So I can go further in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Gitte Willumsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428155258	I have looked forward to today, because the motion for a resolution on which we Conservatives are co-sponsors, on the question of a psychological master's degree programme for teachers and educators, should give more air to Pedagogical Psychological Counselling in the municipalities. We must help our primary schools and day offers to succeed with well-being and inclusion. This is a basic task for us. Too many employees in daycare and primary school find themselves all alone with the task of children and young people with special challenges. It shouldn't be like that. There should be the possibility for families, teachers and educators to get guidance on how to arrange the teaching for a child with difficulty in concentrating; guidance on how to help a child with language challenges; guidance on how to help families with grief in life. And the list could be made longer. Unfortunately, it is not always the case that you get the guidance we need to change that. We Conservatives believe that people who have had their daily walk in schools and today's offers have a different look at the issues and the solutions that need to be played. Specialists who know everyday life, who know the teacher's room and the staff room, would like to involve in new ways. The proposal, in its simplicity, is to train a number of teachers and educators so that they can assist Pedagogical Psychological Counselling in the municipalities, i.e. the old school psychology scheme, if that is to be said in a different way. Teachers and educators must be able to retrain so that they can solve psychologists in school and day care. In order to get there, we would like to contribute to a study work which will result in some recommendations on organisation, structure and content and, of course, also on how the training should be funded. All key stakeholders must be given the opportunity to contribute to the work, also gladly to the work currently under way in order to identify the challenges of the PPR. We need a good foundation for making the final decisions. The Conservative People's Party supports the resolution and looks forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428155534	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428155549	Thank you for that, President. This has been a theme ever since I was elected to parliament. One of the first things I got e-mails about 10 years ago was about the Master's degree programme. Why had it been abolished? Could not something be done to restore it? And for a few years, I thought it could be done. But I would say that this has been a bit of a battle against windmills, because the Danish Psychologist Association did not want the education; the National Association of Municipalities did not want it. KL, who really should need to be able to get some people out in the municipalities to do these tasks, wouldn't have it. Aarhus University didn't want the education at all. Nobody really wanted it from anyone who really had to take it. That is why I feel today that I am really glad that we are standing here now and that we are looking into the hope that we can get a psychological training programme started which, as a teacher, can be built on top and that we can get some staff out at the PPRs to help solve the tasks that are there. And that's kind of my core task right now, I think. Then you can have a discussion whether you should be authorized etc. What I'm just worried about is that if we take it too much, we end up in nothing. And right now, it's really important to me that we do something about this. When I go out to my own municipality and other municipalities and talk to people in the school field, they yell and scream at not newly trained psychologists but precisely at someone who has the combination of teaching and psychology to help in the PPR with the tasks that pile up out there. We simply cannot get enough qualified staff. That's why I think we should get this thing going. And I do not think we should push the timetable more than the maximum necessary. As the proposal stands, recommendations must be made for a psychological master's degree for educators and teachers, and I think we could do that in this parliamentary year, because there is, after all, almost six months before it ends. Then you could have those recommendations. I hope that, in parallel with that, you could talk to them over in the other ministry, which is working on this study of PPR, so that you really don't have to wait for each other, but look at both places to see what comes out of it, and that you can take into account the analysis and recommendation that comes in relation to this psychological master's degree, when it is now finished at the end of the parliamentary year at the end of September. And then in the other work, which is planned to end at the end of the year, that is, right at the beginning of 2023, you could just get adjusted if there is something that you might have forgotten in this analysis. It should be possible. That is why I am looking forward to a report that will, hopefully, push this and make sure that something happens and that we can look forward to an education that will start next summer, but that we will get a job started no matter what, so we are sure that this will happen. At least it's my hope with this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428155908	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428155927	I have to be completely honest and say that my vision is that we get the school psychologists back so right. In addition to the fact that New Citizens would like schools to be freed and that the money follows the individual child, and that in fact one also has the opportunity to use one's skills in schools to a much greater extent than one can today, without paternal demands, etc., we also have a clear desire and have had it from the outset that teacher training should be much better, that it should be trained and that it should be at candidate level, and that we should have much more internship. That is why it is also very important that today we are discussing how to be able to and in my optics should re-establish the original cand.psyk. education. And as I said to the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party before, I do not really see any contradiction in the fact that one could then look at whether one should make an intermediate year after teacher training, where one could just upgrade on some of the subjects that psychologists, for example, question that one lacks after teacher training, so that this could be possible. Nor am I afraid of the fact that you had to train for something outside the school, because the picture we see today is that there will be some completely new skilled psychologists who are out in the municipalities for a very short time and then go on leaving school. So I certainly do not have that concern when it is people who are trained teachers who come out to this. But, of course, I have a wish that it is not a PPR round that sits in the municipality, but that we eventually come back to the possibility of having psychologists out in the individual schools, and this is not about diagnosing all children far from it. I mean, when I'm talking about this school policy, it's like... I also believe that a school system has been created which makes children ill because there are simply so many rigid frameworks and so on. But what will be absolutely essential about this is precisely that you have some professionals at school, close to, near-miss, who can come down and observe in class, who can be aware of it, if there are some children who are having a really difficult time, if there are some children who need to be helped temporarily or in the longer term, and who can have the difficult conversations with parents etc., that is, all of these things, which it is at least difficult to demand for newly educated Louise in 25 years, who has just become a psychologist, in order now to caricate it completely. I also believe that it would make it more attractive to read to learn. Because in the old days and that's almost also around where I read, but also a little earlier it was possible to read cand.pæd.syk., but there were also a lot of things you could read at Teacher's College, so you actually had an opportunity to use your education. I remember that some of what I was told when I was going to read to a teacher was that when you read to a teacher, you really have a lot of opportunities, also on the other hand, if you don't want to be a teacher for the rest of your life, and we are at a time when it is by far the fewest people who stay in the profession all their lives, as in any case my parents and perhaps their grandparents have been. So I think it will strengthen this with how many people actually choose teacher training and, as I mentioned earlier, I have this idea that for Bente, who has been a teacher for 20 years, who takes a cand. psyche and who comes out and takes a run at the individual school, it will be far better than what is the alternative today. So I have to admit, I'm not worried about the critical voices there are. Now that I have stood up and argued for all this, I also think it is very good that we get started, as the previous rapporteur also said. I know Rome wasn't built in one day, but if it were up to me, we'd reinstate the old cand. psyche. One to one. But this is also a step along the way, and I can support the fact that we are making a report so that we get started on this. 'Cause I really think it's missing, and it's something I've been wondering about... for being completely honest... for really, really many years, i.e. this is no longer possible. So, having said that and with those arguments, we support both the proposal, but we also support the fact that there can be a report in the country so that we can hopefully get started on this important work and hopefully one day get the old cand. psyche education re-established. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428160359	Thank you to the rapporteur for the new citizens. There are no brief comments, and so we give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428160409	Thank you for that and how I have looked forward to having this debate today, and I would like to start by thanking the Minister and the Social Democrats and the SF for sharing the intention and also the Enhedslisten, which I think also said some important things about the importance of the whole community, and to New Citizens just to be fully involved in this proposal. It is not actually so often that the Radical Left and the New Citizens agree, so the greater the pleasure it is when it happens like this. And of course thanks also to the Left and Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, who are making this proposal with me. When I have taken the initiative, as other rapporteurs have said, because we are experiencing a generation of children and young people, how many mistrusts, there are many who feel lonely, and there are many who are tumbling with anxiety and depression. And right now we also see an incredible number of parents who have the feeling that they have to fight the system, and that they have to keep fighting for years when they have a concern about their child, and we also see educators, teachers and school leaders who are basically in an unreasonable and unsustainable situation, and in many places around us we are making a shift away from always seeing problems as something that is inside children and to have a greater look at the community. But I also believe that it takes a shift away from school to wait to get help from City Hall, from some unit, and to help is at school, and it matters that there is a school psychologist at school, and we can just call her Bente. I like your picture of Bente, because if you know that Bente is sitting behind that door and that you can just go knock on the door, if you have something, there are actually a lot of things you can solve right away, and it matters that help is close and that it happens immediately. We could also say Rasmus, because I would actually like to quote one of those who knows what he is talking about, namely Rasmus Alenkær, who was one of the last to attend the old education, and he says so here, and I quote: Right now in Denmark there is a need for skilled and experienced pedagogical psychologists A), who have a school background, and who are therefore formally trained and have practical experience with didactics, learning, class management, parental cooperation, learning community and development processes and team collaboration, etc., and B) who can have their psychological hugs at the licensing level and therefore can solve all the tasks, testing including, which typically relate to the psychology of the school system. Why? Because, in principle, an authorized psychologist with a school background has better impact in the school system than a psychologist without a school background or a school professional consultant without an authorization. My clear impression is that the advice needs to be provided to a greater extent by someone who can also personify it, they advise that they can walk the talk and see how the advice is translated into educational and didactic practice. That is what Rasmus Alenekær says, and that is what is important, i.e. that the children get help immediately, because the teachers and teachers get help immediately, and because they get help that they can use. But then I also believe in the second, which we have also talked about today, i.e. that it is actually a very important career path, and that today we are losing too many educators and teachers who leave the profession or who do not become educators and teachers at all in the first place because they choose other courses where they have the experience that there are more doors opening up. That is why I believe that the teachers and teachers, and especially the children, deserve the full package that the New Citizens' rapporteur also mentioned. I think it is important for this to be included in the licensing system because there is a quality assurance in it, but also because I have been scolded by Marianne Jelved, who could not understand why we are not just reintroducing the old education and wondering why it is so difficult to find a majority around it. But now we are standing here and having a resolution that can take the first step, and I would just like to end by thanking you for your support and for the good speeches, and I look forward to our joint committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428160848	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are some brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428160903	The debate is open. First, we give the floor to the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428160934	Thank you. The authors of the motion for a resolution want to require the government to amend the Su Act so that the interest rate on Su loans is reduced from 4% to 1%, in addition to the introduction of a flat-rate interest rate ceiling of 4%. Finally, the proposers want the additional cost of the loan not to exceed 100%. of the total amount of the loan. The authors shall state the reasons on which they are based, inter alia: the proposal with government interest income on su loans and that the current model is not reasonable, as there are young people who are starting up a large debt to the state through the su system and who later in life have the challenges of paying off their debts if I have to briefly outline the content of the proposal before we move on to the discussion. The underlying intention of the proposal is both sympathetic and relevant and an intention shared by the government. We do not want a Denmark where young people have to pay for their lives in order to be able to take an education, and fortunately I do not think that is the case in Denmark either. In Denmark, education is for everyone. You should not put large amounts of money in order to be enrolled in an education that you see in countries • what should you say is more marked by liberal thinking and not to the same extent by a social democratic about equal access to education. The Danish education and su system is attractive. Su supports young people's ability to train regardless of their economic background. This is a fundamental position that I have, and of course also a premise in the ongoing political reflections on changes in the Su area, as the government and a broad majority of the people are doing in the Su-conciliation circle. The government recognizes that the proposers of the current proposal, Enhedslisten, as it is, are not part of the conciliation circle, but that does not change the fact that the proposal in its content falls within the scope of the conciliation and since the government respects all the conciliations reached, we cannot support the proposal already for that reason. In good parliamentary practice, conciliation is discussed in a conciliation group, if one or more conciliation parties so wish, and in this way it has this unity about a conciliation and all the compromises that have been reached in this respect. However, I would like to point out in this Chamber that the Su system should not stimulate inappropriate lending practices among educational seekers. I would like to call, independently of this proposal, the Su-City for a debate on the debt area, with a focus on the prevention of defaulted debt. The problem is relevant. However, I would like to warn against making su loans into something wrong in themselves. There is broad political agreement on a Danish su system with a fellowship part and a loan part, where young people also have good opportunities to work alongside the studies without being penalised financially for it. I should also like to remind you that the current rate of interest on su-loans during the training period is still below market rates, and the su-loans model as a whole is quite attractive. You have to see for yourself what the alternative was: that you had to go to a private loan market, where you would normally have to have some form of collateral and mortgage if you were to be able to borrow a loan, and otherwise, if there is a very high risk of it, a very high interest rate could also be taken, even higher than the one taken for su loans today. However, collateral and mortgages are not required, and this also helps to provide access to a favourable loan for a target group which, in particular, is expected to have lower credit ratings in the ordinary loan market. Finally, the economic consequences of the motion for a resolution seem to be very uncertain. To illustrate: If the interest rate on Su-loan debts during training is adjusted from 4 to 1 per cent, the gross national income, as it is said, will be about 1 per cent per year. 400 million kr., before a backflow occurs, approx. 200 million kr., when account is taken of the taxes and charges that will otherwise be paid. It is subject to uncertainty, but indeed a three-digit million amount, as at present. is not financing, nor is it funding, which the proposers have also helped to use for other purposes in the context of the conclusion of annual financial laws. That is why one might well think that it should be changed anyway; of course one can. However, if the proposal is to be implemented, it must be financed either in the sugar sector or in the Finance Act. At the same time, it is also part of the discussion that interest rates are currently rising from the exceptionally low level at which they have been. So to sum up: the government cannot support the proposal out of respect for the su-conciliation. Subjects covered by the conciliation should be dealt with within and by the Su-conciliation Group. The government does not have a fundamental concern about the existing Su system, but will also send out the signal that preventing the default of young people on su-debt is an important theme, and I would invite the Su-conciliate to discuss it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428161444	Thank you very much. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428161447	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for the speech and for the comments that it is a sympathetic and relevant proposal. One can say that it was never intended that, when it was adopted, it should be a business for the state and something we needed to finance proposals with. But otherwise I think that this is something on which we, together, those who should be supported, can agree. And we also have several suggestions on how to do that. I am thinking of someone from whom the Social Democratic Party, in addition to this issue of equal access and free education, has been very inspired. It's Keynes. I come to think of it precisely when the Minister says this with rising interest rates and that we see rising prices • food prices; energy prices; a housing market that is galloped off. Can there not be any consideration, precisely in view of the fact that the economy is changing, to create a secure economy for students? This may be both the present proposal in relation to Su loans, but indeed also the su, which was undermined by the 2012 tax reform. What is the Minister thinking there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428161554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428161555	I would say that there is certainly a very topical discussion about the price developments we see that affect everyone, especially them, but the smallest incomes. That is why there is also a discussion which is now taking place with the Minister of Finance and which I would be wrong to take here. But everyone knows that it is there, and it is about how to react in that situation. The government has among other things: pointed out to some groups of elderly people with low incomes. Some point to young people or to quite different groups. As I said, this is being discussed by the Finance Minister, in other words how to deal with it. If Enhedslisten has views in this context and funding proposals and other things, then I think that is where it should be taken. That's where it belongs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428161654	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428161655	Thank you. But what we are doing in the Ministry of Finance, I would call patching up the situation we are in now. So what I'm thinking there is the exciting thing is exactly how we get it forward-looking and generally, when we know that the business cycle is going up and down. That is also what our proposal in relation to the Su loan would do. It would ensure that the spirit which was in the law when it was adopted will be followed so that, when the interest rates are low, you will not make extra money. In other words, when there has been a negative interest rate, the state has made a lot of money. So, in terms of what we should do in the future, what does the Minister think there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428161734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428161735	I would very much like to take part in the discussion on how to better prevent the default of su-debts. This is, of course, part of the problem we have in general, with a high public debt. But it is also the case that if we can do something in the way we administer su-loans and so on, in order to avoid young people getting into that situation later in life, then I think it is a good and relevant purpose. Otherwise, in the context of the debate on inflation, I should like to point out that, as price developments are there, sugar and other benefits are regulated. This will also happen to the su. Whether or not we want to do more is the discussion in which I would like to refer to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428161818	Thank you, Minister. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ida Auken from the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428161828	The proposal here, tabled by Enhedslisten, requires the Government to table a bill amending the Su Act so that the State does not have interest on Su loans. This means that the rate of Su loans will be reduced from 4% to 1%, 2) that the interest rate will never exceed 4%, and 3) that the additional cost of the loan will not exceed 100%. This is a sympathetic proposal, because of course we must take account of students, and so do we. In Denmark we have the world's perhaps most generous su system. It consists of a Su-Scholarship which does not have to be paid back and of a Su-loan which is an option and which has to be paid back. The Su loan has quite favourable terms. It is much cheaper than loans on market terms, and all students can obtain su-loans regardless of education, social background or economic capacity. After several years of very low interest rates, interest rates are currently rising sharply, and this means that the government's interest income from su-loans is already on shrinkage. The comments on the motion for a resolution show a concern for people who are struggling to pay off their su-loans. We fully share that concern, but we have to ask ourselves whether we are preventing young people from taking up excessive debts if we make loans more attractive with lower interest rates. I think you do the kids a disservice. Finally, it should be noted that the proposal here falls within the scope of the su-conciliation, of which Enhedslisten is not a part. Any adjustments to the su system shall be made within the conciliation circle. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162014	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162017	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The first question I think could be exciting to turn is in relation to what the su loan is often used for. Isn't that over 42 percent? of the students who either use their entire su or almost their entire su alone to pay their rent? This means that you are dependent on being able to get an income from somewhere else. It may be from your parents, a job or, for example, from your parents. By taking su-loan. What does the rapporteur think about social mobility in particular? In other words, can there be no consideration in making the su loan as good as possible? I think it is an independent discussion whether the su should be improved? So the consequences for some of those who may not be able to get the money from home are not going to be as great?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162114	Thank you. Now, of course, we have proposed to increase the amount of money to be made. I don't think it's something that gives security that people can get a bigger debt when they're done with their education. This is something we can see in, for example. The United States, where you are deeply plagued by debt and there are people who find it difficult to get rid of it. I really don't think that's gonna make the students feel safe. So immediately we don't think it's good, but Enhedslisten perhaps does, that you as a student come out with a much bigger debt. We don't think that's much help to the students.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162143	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162143-2	However, by increasing the amount of free money so that you can work more alongside, there will be precisely the problem of removing the powder you should have spent studying, immersing yourself and becoming even more skilled because it simply tips. We know, of course, what consequences it has if you get up to the 12 hours you work a week, and it's almost become more normal that you work 20 hours next to the study than it is abnormal. So can the rapporteur not be unsure whether, if not to say that you have to work a lot alongside the su, it could mean removing focus from your study? And then there is the concern that yes, right now we are in a boom, but what if we are in a recession and there are not those jobs for the students?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162228	But students must of course read full time, and that is one of the things we have done to ensure that students read full time. Then not everyone can live on su and su loans, as the rapporteur describes, and there we think it is good that we can work alongside them. Of course, it's about finding some good balances, but we kind of trust that the individual student is able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162250	Thank you very much to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162303	Thank you. In the Left, we strongly support the fact that in Denmark we have a study support system which means that it is not your parents' income, let alone your social background, that determines whether you have the opportunity to complete higher education. We in the Left have historically taken political responsibility for our su. We are in the conciliation circle and we actually see our study support as an incredibly important element in the Danish education policy. It may even be said that it is a pillar and a prerequisite for our higher education system in particular. We currently have the world's most favorable su. The Socialist rapporteur mentioned this. This also means that we are at present. the world's most expensive Su, and indeed more expensive than our neighbouring countries, which we often compare with Norway, Sweden and Finland, but that is an expression of a political priority here in the Folketing, that is to say that that is what we want. Sometimes there are proposals for changes, and here it is important for me to stress that changes in the Su system should take place, so what it now appears must be something that arises from agreements within the conciliation circle. And I am actually very, very pleased that the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur have also stressed that if there is to be changes in su, this is, of course, something we agree within the framework of the conciliation group. The motion for a resolution we are debating today has been tabled by the Enhedslisten, which is not part of the conciliation group. But that does not mean that we cannot discuss proposals from the Enhedslisten, which have to do with the Su system here in Parliament. The proposal deals, as has been well examined by both the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur, with the removal of interest rates on student loans during the period of study, among other things. And, well, that's a sympathetic proposal, but let me quote former Minister of Finance Mr. Claus Hjort Frederiksen: Where will the money come from? It has to be said that the Enhedslisten has the privilege of being able to make proposals without even suggesting how it should be financed. After all, we heard from the Minister that we are talking about expenditure of the order of 400 million. kr., 200 million. kr. with backflows, and it's still some kind of money at the end of the month. We cannot support the proposal here, and this is mainly due to the fact that we are part of the sugar dispute, but it is also linked to what Mrs Ida Auken said, namely that we are looking into a time when there is uncertainty about interest rates, and then we do not think it is time to change the basic conditions for that part of our su system. We do not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162633	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162637	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Well, right now, you can say, it's the students who will pay the bill. We have pointed out that money can be taken from, for example. the strengthening of tax controls so that we make sure that those who actually pay their taxes do so. That would be 5 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The reason why we are not in the conciliation circle is, of course, one of the reasons why we are not in the conciliation circle. the minor regulation, as it is so dry called, which has been of the su, where the su has been hollowed out year by year. And I understand that the Left does not want to roll back the minor regulation. It has, of course, made several students dependent on the su loan. Is the Left whether it is in the conciliation circle or not open to look at the fact that the Su loan should be more fair and more live up to the spirit of the law adopted at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162731	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162732	The minor regulation mentioned by Mrs Victoria Velasquez is, I assume, the minor regulation adopted under the former Socialist-led government with Minister for Education and Research, Mr. Morten Østergaard in the lead. After all, it has expired, and now we are back on the original regulation. In fact, we would have liked to see the regulation that Mr. Morten Østergaard introduced back in 2013, had been continued, for it had been able to free a great deal of money for strengthened education. Among other things, they could: have been used for the agreement we made this summer on the relocation of study places outside the major university towns. So again here, I would like to say to Mrs Victoria Velasquez, the Enhedslisten and the Left will not agree on what the future sus should look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162831	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162832	It is no secret that I thought it was too wrong for Radicals and the SF and the Social Democrats to cut into the su, because it does mean that the su is at a very different level today than if you had not. And it is a well-known disagreement between the Left and the Enhedslisten, also on that issue. However, if we had continued to regulate less, is the rapporteur not concerned that we would weaken the social mobility of students? So, we know that many spend almost their entire su to pay their rent or almost their entire su to pay their rent alone, and then there is still a shortage of study books, food and transportation. Doesn't that cause any concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162912	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162913	No, actually, it doesn't. The other day I had a relatively large group of students visiting me, and I asked them if they had observed that they had actually received a salary increase on 1 January. Not one of them responded positively. So when Mrs Victoria Velasquez here uses it as a pretext to say that it is detrimental to social mobility, then I find it difficult to follow it, since the students have not even felt that they actually received a salary increase, if I may say so, on 1 January of this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428162953	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mrs Astrid Carøe from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428163000	Thank you. I am very pleased with this proposal from the Enhedslisten, which I think both sets a very concrete challenge that we are currently facing in our society, with young people, who are all equal also because of the rising food and energy prices, higher rents and so on. has less money in their hands than they have had in the past, but also on a fundamental debate about whether the state should make money on su-loans. In the SF we do not think that the state should, but, as the Minister, the Socialist rapporteur and the rapporteur of the Left have already explained, we have a conciliation group in which we take decisions on the su, and I am very pleased that we do, because it creates calm about the su, and that means that in a broad circle of parties in the Folketing we can sit together and decide what to do with the su. Fortunately, we're in the SF with that. It also means that this is going to be a question which I am addressing in the Su-Conciliation Group. We cannot support this proposal today, because it would be to oppose the conciliation group. However, I think that this is an important and fundamental debate that the Enhedslisten raises. Then there is also the concern about the students' economy, because as the rapporteur of the Left and the rapporteur of the authors of the motion for a resolution have just discussed, it has been the case that over a number of years the sugar industry has been less regulated. I also find it a pity that this has been done, even though we have been involved in adopting it ourselves, as it was part of a larger agreement. On the other hand, I am very pleased that we have ensured in the SF in the Su-congregation, because that is what a Su-congregation can do to allow the su'en to follow the wage trend in the future rather than this minor regulation. I am very pleased and very proud of that, and frankly I do not think that it would have been possible if the SF had not sat in the su-conciliation circle. So I'm really glad about that. This does not mean that the student's economy is now going skyrocketing, and Mrs Ulla Tørnæs is probably right in saying that it is not something that the individual student just discovered on 1 January, but it does matter that he follows the wage developments that exist in society, otherwise, year by year, he would become poorer and poorer when compared with other sections of the population. As the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten also says, students spend much more on their rent than in the past because the rent is rising. At the same time, we also see these rising food prices and energy prices. I find that worrying. It is at the same time that we quite naturally see that the use of su loans is also increasing. That is why I am pleased that the Minister says that he will convene a meeting of the Conciliation Committee where we can discuss this situation with the increasing use of Su loans. For yes, it is a challenge, and no, nor do I think that young students in Denmark should be indebted in order to be able to take an education. Then I would just like to say that I am also generally concerned about the almost constant pressure being put on the su, from many places in our society. We see almost a few times a year that there are proposals from different sides on, for example. to remove the su of the candidate and convert it into a loan. I think that's a real shame. It creates a great deal of uncertainty about the su system we have, and it will of course not be something we can ever participate in in the SF. As I said, I think that this is a very important and fundamental discussion which Enhedslisten raises, namely whether the state should make money on su-loans, but more importantly, I think it is almost to talk about the students' economy in general, which is therefore worse today than it has been in the past. And in the current situation, I think it is even more important that we talk about whether there is anything we can do to help students, for example. by saying that they must also receive a lump sum, like some of the poorest elderly people, whom the government has proposed should have it, so that, of course, students should also have it when we are in this extraordinary situation. Yes, I think it is wonderful to talk a little about the students' economy, and I am very concerned, but it is not going to be a support for the proposal, mainly because we sit in the su-conciliation circle and take the debate there instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428163431	Thank you very much. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428163434	Thank you. I would also like to sign for the cooperation this summer. In cooperation between the SF and Enhedslisten, where we really moved together, we managed to prevent the debate just before it was supposed to be a minor regulation of the su, which should finance the training measures that we would like to do. It's really important. Because it may well be that from December to January we may not be able to see the big difference. But now I just figured it out, which is more than $400. a month, if you compare it from the tax reform there in 2012, and that is really, very much money. That's what's so clever about making that less regulation, that you can snatch the money from the students that way, because it then becomes unclear. Another place we had a good cooperation was about fighting quick loans, and that's where the one with 100 percent. the cost of the proposal comes. What is the rapporteur's view of the fact that we are actually inspired by what we are doing by the private credit market and that we should not, of course, be disadvantaged in relation to public debt vis-à-vis the private sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428163541	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428163542	Thank you. I also think I will start by signing off on the cooperation we had this summer. That was really good. However, I would also like to stress that the reason why there may be a veto on continuing the saving on the su or this minor regulation is that the SF sits in the conciliation circle. Now I do not think we would have succeeded if both parties had been outside the Su-conciliation circle. However, I fully agree that it was a very good cooperation at all in order to make a fine deal and avoid that it was the students who had to pay for it. In relation to this, whether to look at what we have done in the private sector, I am also very pleased with the agreement we have made on quick loans. I think it made a great deal of sense to me, even though it is not just me who has been rapporteur on it and seems quite easy to look at it. I think it is important that we get a look at how to borrow in the public sector and what conditions you have when you have to pay for it. But as I said, it's a talk we have in the su-conciliation circle. And then it is also extremely important that I did not say in my rapporteur's speech for SF that what we are doing is, of course, funded. So, yes, we must ensure that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428163644	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428163645	Thank you. I'd like to hear more about that. I'm extra worried, you might almost say, on top of corona, where the students didn't get any help packages. If you were paid on an hourly basis, you often experienced not pay compensation, but a bill instead. What you then got back was that you could take on even more debt. It was like the help package you got. What does the rapporteur think should be done now, both in order to try to remedy the misfortune which it creates for students to have a difficult economy, but also to try to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428163721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428163722	I also wish we could have done something else for the students in the situation they were in, and especially those not covered under the pay packages we made under corona. But after all, I have also noticed how many people have been really happy that we gave them the opportunity for the extra su loan. I think that has prevented some from doing so, for example. I'm gonna go take a quick loan instead. It has to be said that the su loan is better. And then I forgot what else the rapporteur asked about that, and now I have no more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428163749	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There won't be another round. The next rapporteur is Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428163758	Thank you. I shall not go over what the motion for a resolution is about. I think that is very, very well done by previous rapporteurs. However, in exactly the same way as all other previous rapporteurs up here, Radicals cannot, of course, support this proposal here either. I agree that it is sympathetic and that I understand what the intention is. However, as everyone else has also stated, it is part of the conciliation circle that we have in the Su area, where we have a comprehensive agreement on how to control our su and below our su loans in this country too. There is also a lack of funding, at least directly linked to this motion for a resolution. It also makes it very difficult to have a very concrete discussion on the basis of it Let me just make it clear that su and our su loans also for radicals are a crucial thing to have for our social mobility, for the society we have and for the society we want to have, for the opportunities we want to offer to young people in relation to education and that su loans are already favourable loans today. You get them without having to be rated, and that's what's really important here, too, that you get them on proper, good terms, and you don't have to go to a bank that needs to see all sorts of future guarantees for it. That is why it is clear that sometimes we are also faced with the problem of not just being paid back, and the state must then take that bill on board. That's why there's always a running, total problem in it. We look forward to the discussion in the conciliation circle from the radical side and to looking at this together, but we cannot, of course, support the resolution here either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164004	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164008	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and also for your attention to the generality of the problem of young people. The rapporteur knows very well that I am fairly tired of radicals taking 400 kroner. the month from students, as it is today, and I also assume that the rapporteur agrees that it is of course worrying when you see that many students have a large debt. In other words, we understand that the need has been there in relation to the corona crisis and something like that, but that naturally raises some concerns about the well-being of having a secure economy. So maybe Radicals will lift the veil a little bit about what one thinks one will focus on in the discussions that are to be held and as the Minister has announced there to be, in relation to any changes to the Su loans?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164056	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164057	First of all, I would like to say that the Radicals, and I personally, have been standing out there beating up a lot, that at least we were not ready to remove the su from the graduate students in any way whatsoever. That helps to create a secure economy. And there's actually a pretty secure economy around these su loans, in my opinion. It is not uncertain to have taken a su-loan, but I agree with the questioner that we should always take it seriously when we have a group of young people taking up higher loans. As the Social Democrat rapporteur has also said, we have also helped to increase the amount of the free money. I also agree with that, the questioner will certainly point out that we cannot work our way out of it and that we do not just have to work much, much more alongside the study. No, but it gives some flexibility, and that is one of the important things for young people: that you can adapt your life and the economy you have, also during your study.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164203	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164204	Thank you. I'm just thinking that with the possibility of, for example... It is also true that there are differences in the way in which the business cycle is conducted in general, or that some jobs are available at the same time. When people have money in their pockets, they go out a little bit more to eat or go out with them than if there were. isn't money in your pocket. Then Radicals are not worried that if you do not change the su loan and the su, for example. In recessions can create greater economic uncertainty for students?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164234	Well, I don't know if I'm really worried about young people going out to eat less. So I have faith that young people can manage their finances and make informed decisions on the basis of knowing how this loan has been put together. It is quite clear for everyone to see what it is you go in to if you want to take a su-loan. We must give them that freedom, and I think we should show them that confidence in young people too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164307	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. It is not yet the turn of the Enhedslisten's rapporteur; it will be the end of the line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Gitte Willumsen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164329	Thank you. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten on the change of interest rates on Su loans. The previous rapporteurs have examined it thoroughly and well, so I will not do that too. Su is the foundation stone of our education system. Students should not be dependent on the economy of their parents and, back in the 1970s, the two main objectives of the su system were formulated: that none of the economic reasons should be prevented from obtaining the training which young people have the desire and ability to do, and that the need for work during training should be limited to such an extent that it does not hinder study activities during the training period. I guess that's how we still think a long way along the way. The Reform Commission, chaired by Nina Smith, has given their views on what the future education system should look like. They have also come up with an idea of how the su system can be adjusted. Last Tuesday we had the pleasure of having a few more words put to the Chairman of the Reform Commission, Nina Smith, when she was past the Education and Research Committee. For us in the Conservative People's Party, the discussion has just begun. We are happy to participate in it, but the area is settled, so we want to take the discussion between the parties to the conciliation. It should be added, however, that we do not want the state to use the su-loan scheme as a hidden tax on young people. The Conservative People's Party wants a fair system of loans, and we are happy to discuss this with the conciliation parties, but we cannot support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164523	Thank you very much. There is a brief comment from Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164528	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. When this law was adopted in 1988, it was not intended to be something on which the State would make money. What does the rapporteur think about the fairness of this when we see that from 2017 to 2021 the state has earned around 2.8 billion? kr. Is it true that students are in debt even if they pay a lower rate to the National Bank? Is that fair? Is that what was in mind back then? It was one of those things. Conservatives who were there when they made it. I'm just wondering if there isn't a desire to actually live up to the spirit of the law at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164614	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164615	Thank you for the question. There is, of course, a lot to discuss where the cut should be, and we very much welcome that discussion in the conciliation circle, but there is no doubt that there is a great deal that the state is getting into today. But if you look at the total calculation for su, then it is a considerable cost that the state has to su when we take the su itself along with the loan, i.e. they take the two things together. So we're happy to take the discussion in the conciliation circle and find out where we think the cut should lie.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164646	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164648	I'm gonna have to get that back. In other words, Conservatives believe that one should look at it in isolation with free education and su as an expense to society? Do we not recognise that it is a huge investment, both for the individual and for the whole of our society, that we are actually ensuring much greater and equal access and social mobility in relation to education? Will the rapporteur clarify this? Compared to the part about loans, it's even in relation to defaulted debts, or if for some reason people can't pay back their su-loans... debt relief and all those things... still a huge billion surplus business for the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164730	We are in favour of the su scheme, there should be no doubt about that, and we also agree that it is good for young people to be able to have this scheme, and that is what I started by saying in my rapporteur's speech. It's settled. But where the cut should be in relation to the interest rate and how much young people have to pay is something we are discussing in the conciliation circle. We are in favour of having the loan system, and we would like to extend it if possible. That's where the cut is for the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164803	Thank you very much to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164821	Thank you. We have a very good su system in Denmark, and we must continue to have that because it is the basis for ensuring that students are financially independent of their parents and that they have the opportunity to take a higher education course. We think this is really, really important. Then we have Enhedslisten's proposal here, which is about going in and looking at interest rates and terms for student loans, and of course we must also be open to discussing this. I have to say that this is something that needs to be done in the su-conciliation circle, because that is where we address such issues, but of course it is always relevant to see whether the interest rate is OK, whether the framework is OK, and whether the different conditions are OK, because things have to be adjusted over time. It is not such a basic attitude in the Danish People's Party that you should earn from making su-loans. On the other hand, I would also say that the money that you get in now can be spent in many ways. You can choose to use them to change interest rates, but you can also choose to use them on other things, and that is the whole priority that is constantly being given to how we make our systems. But basically I would just like to say that su and su relations are in the Su circle, and here we are discussing how they should be. That is where it is going to be, and that is why, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I cannot, of course, support the Enhedslisten's proposal here today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164952	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428164956	Thank you for that, and also thank you for being open for it, I hear that it is not necessarily the case that because one way was adopted in 1988, it must continue to be in that way. The negative interest rate and such things may change how you can set it up. There is something else that I also think could be exciting. With the former member of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted has had some good discussions about early retirement. In fact, I find it exciting to look at how to do it. I believe that in Sweden it is the case that it happens automatically that you get a debt relief of your su-loan if you get an early retirement because you cannot work. That's why you get an early retirement. Would the rapporteur also be open to bringing such things into the negotiations, for example, that there should be an automatic debt relief of the Su loan if it is decided that one is simply too sick to work? Or are there any other things that DF is thinking about bringing into the negotiating room?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428165057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428165058	There are a great many things we would like to bring into the negotiating room if we are to negotiate su one way or another. I can promise you that. One of the things we have a lot of focus on is to ensure better conditions for students with disabilities so that they can get through their entire study with proper support. If there are some who have su-loans that are very large and they get sick and come on an early retirement pension or something else that makes them unable to pay back the loan, then of course there should be arrangements that relate to how to help those people move on properly in their lives. It makes very good sense, and I would like to take that up too. But this is not an agenda that I am dealing with here, nor is it something that I am aware of is a major and topical problem to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428165145	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428165147	But I can tell you that it actually is, because over there in the Treasury, debt is being negotiated right now, and unfortunately there is focus on the small fish and on hitting the poorest hardest, while some of them, who are the big fish, have a lot of debts and maybe cheat on how to pay it back, get away. So I really hope that this will be addressed. I do not know whether it is the tax rapporteur or someone else who is taking part in the debt negotiations with the Danish People's Party, but I hope that you will address them and worry about them. early retirement pensioners who have a large su-debt, or some of the others who seem to be getting into trouble right now in those negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428165223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428165224	Well, I thank you very much for the information, and I will have a discussion with our tax rapporteur. It is certainly our tax rapporteur, Dennis Flydtkjær, who is taking part in those negotiations over there. I'll pass that on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428165237	Then we thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Now the next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428165258	The Danish youth is strong and enterprising, the young have come through the corona crisis with distance learning and isolation. They have come through more than a decade of cuts in education, lower social security networks and increasing inequality. However, this cannot go on and we are already seeing the consequences of the deterioration, and it is our duty to act and go another way. Today, many ordinary young people in rural and urban areas are struggling to find their way through a youth life where society is pushing them from all sides. 20% of a youth year does not have an education and does not receive an education, and inequality is increasing, also between generations. The present generation of young people is not experiencing the increasing wealth of the world and has no more opportunities than their parents, but is ahead of a more insecure future. They are affected by cuts in education, reduced labour market rights and, above all, by the consequences of climate change. And when Denmark and the world get richer, the future should also be brighter for young people. It is possible to create more opportunities for today's young people if we dare and will, and it is possible to build a future based on strong communities, on rights and opportunities for all young people, not just the few who are lucky to be born with rich parents or with money in bricks. It can if we dare to bet on young people and bet on the community, and we dare to do so in the Enhedslisten, and in fact we believe that we have a duty to change decades with the wrong course for a good young life now and in the future. We are not just going to watch this as young people take up the fight, we are going to gather together to fight for a better future, and this resolution is one of many of the measures that we can and should take, because when we see the distrust of young people growing, we do not escape the growing economic insecurity. During the corona crisis, several students and students did not receive aid packages like the companies, and many had to accept additional debts when they lost their student jobs, and this comes on top of a long period when the su' has been eroded year by year, when prices on the housing market have increased and when groceries have become more expensive. Despite the fact that in the Corona relief package we were actually written in that we were to take the hour-paid, a majority chose to withdraw the hand-out. I think it is obvious that we are addressing the su-debt and the terms of the su-law, because it was never intended, it was not the spirit of the law that the state should make billions on interest income from student su-loans. When the Su loan was introduced in 1988, there was a fixed rate of 4%. during study time, a really good interest rate for students at the time, but from 2017 to 2021 the state has earned about 2.8 billion. kr. (ii) the fact that students are in debt because the rate of the Su loan remains 4%, even though the State borrows the money from the National Bank at a lower rate of interest. So it's crazy that it's going to be a gold-ridden business for the state that students have to pay off. It is a group that already lives too little and is incredibly pressured, both on the well-being and on the economy. 25% of the students spend more than the su to pay their rent, 17 per cent. It is not surprising when we see that the cases of defaulted debts are increasing. The proportion of graduates who find it difficult to repay their student debts has risen from 10%. 17 per cent. from 2013 to 2020, and this figure is likely to increase further when we see the full effects of the corona loans, when with Denmark more than 1° will cut the daily allowance for graduates, and therefore more young people are hit by the high penalty of 7.5 per cent, which applies if you do not pay the money back on time. Both here and generally in relation to financial security, we need to do something. We are actually proposing a similar proposal in 2016, namely to reduce the interest rate on su-loans so that the state should not make money from students' debts. At that time, the proposal was voted down and since then developments have only got worse. From 2011 to 2016, the interest income on student loans was 1.5 billion. kr., and in the period up to today the figure has risen to 2.8 billion. kr. I think there has been a little openness here this evening, and I certainly hope that this time a majority of politicians will be able to move forward. Thank you for the debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428165801	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Katrine Robsøe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428165805	Thank you. The rapporteur for the authors of the proposals has spoken a great deal, both during the speech but also earlier on questions to the rapporteurs, about students' prospects and opportunities and such things, and so I would just like to hear it, it may be that I have not noticed that Enhedslisten has reported it out what level Enhedslisten thinks the su should be on. Well, what's it gonna be in crowns and ears?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428165834	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428165835	Thank you for that question. We think the su should be raised by 1,000 kroner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428165842	We thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428165904	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 3 May 2022. We will only move on for a moment when everyone is in place after the changeover. We will start with a explanatory statement by the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170020	Thank you. The time is approaching when more and more of the Syrian refugees that Denmark received in the period around 2015 stand to receive permanent residence permits in Denmark. According to Statistics Denmark, the Syrians differ negatively in terms of both unemployment and crime. On closer inspection, the Syrians did not turn out to be dentists and engineers, as we heard about when they arrived in Denmark. Many of them had no training, no language skills, and the result is that they have not entered employment. At the same time, as we know, statistics show that the Syrians, compared with other immigrant groups, are committing a great deal of crime. The Syrians are not a success story in Denmark, and therefore the Danish People's Party believes that it is clearly justified that we raise this question in relation to what the government intends to do in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170118	Thank you. We shall now proceed to a reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170124	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the floor. I have previously had the opportunity to explain the Danish rules on the withdrawal of residence permits and the refusal of residence permits and the relationship with the international obligations of Denmark. Just as often as I have stressed that you have to go home when you no longer have a need for protection, I have stressed that we must provide protection as long as it is needed. This, of course, also applies to the acids. Many of them still have a need for protection and can therefore continue to reside in Denmark as refugees. As you know, it is the Foreign Affairs Agency and then, if appropriate, the Independent Refugee Board that carries out the assessment of the protection needs, and I am confident that they will make the right decisions fully in accordance with our legislation and the obligations we have. Then on the issue of repatriations. As you know, the Syrian refugees we are discussing today are legally resident in Denmark, but if they want to repatriate, they can, according to the circumstances, receive support from the Danish state, and quite a few have actually availed themselves of that opportunity. In fact, a little more than 400 Syrians have been repatriated since it became possible in 2019. We must be ready to guide and help those who voluntarily wish to return home with the support of the repatriation scheme, and therefore the municipalities are among other things. also required to provide guidance on the possibility of receiving assistance for repatriation in the context of their integration efforts. Last year a counselling interview was introduced aimed precisely at foreigners who, after a long stay in Denmark, have not settled. Here the municipalities must have an honest talk with them about whether or not they actually feel that they have landed on the right shelf in Denmark. In addition, Parliament has just adopted a law in April to address some of the challenges of paying aid for repatriation to foreigners who return to sanctioned countries, to which it is difficult to transfer money, particularly in the case of Syria. It will be possible under the law to lay down detailed rules for a more flexible and cash payment of the aid. In this way, we will ensure that we continue to support the return journey in the best possible way for those Syrians who also wish to return home voluntarily with support. As far as the possibility of sending Syrian citizens to Syria is concerned, as you know, the government has decided that, for foreign policy reasons, forced broadcasts to Syria will not be carried out so far, since Denmark must refrain from acts that can be interpreted as normalising relations with the Syrian regime. However, Denmark continues to assist people who voluntarily wish to return to Syria, including with financial support, as I mentioned earlier. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170404	One brief comment is now available for the rapporteurs. Mr President, first of all, we have the floor. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170411	Thank you, Minister. This is an area where we really feel, unfortunately, that the government doesn't do much. After all, we have come up with a number of measures that are not exhaustive in any way, about everything from the ceiling on permanent stays to various other things. However, one of the things we did just now was that we had written into the new agreement on citizenship, that the Minister should call for discussions to ensure that temporary protection does not develop into a de facto permanent stay. There we have had one meeting with the Minister a year ago, and that has been the case. Is the Minister intending to continue the discussion which we have, after all, committed ourselves to in an agreement, and if so, when will the Minister convene the next meeting?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170453	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170454	We had also had a little discussion in the Parliamentary Chamber yesterday and, as the questioner also said yesterday, there was a meeting which was just about trying to follow some of the Syrians and see how many of them were granted permanent residence permits and how many of them immediately lived up to some of the essential conditions for obtaining permanent residence permits. I think it is clear to everyone who looks at at at least the papers that the acids are unfortunately not so well integrated. Unfortunately, there are not so many who have had so much work that they would be able to meet the conditions. On the other hand, as the questioner himself pointed out, as the years pass, there will be more and more people living up to the conditions. We can also see, although these are small numbers, a slight increase in the proportion of Syrians who have permanent residence. Of course you can meet around that, but if the aim is to tighten the conditions for obtaining permanent residence permits for Syrians, it is just the government's view that we have some good rules for permanent residence and we do not see any fundamental need to change the rules such basically.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170558	The next brief remark goes to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170600	Thank you. Yes, but it is true, as has just been said, that we have certainly had a lot of questions, legislative proposals... no, in fact not legislative proposals, but resolutions in this Chamber about this problem, and as the Minister is holding, I must say, such a not very committed speech, but perhaps it is also a little late in the day, so I miss it being said quite plainly that we have to make contact with Syria, we have to make contact with Assad, because that is the only possible way we can get them back. After all, the authorities in Denmark say that it is possible to send Syrians back, and then my question is just: why not make that contact?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170644	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170645	I would like to start by regretting a little if it were not so committed to my initial speech, but I think it was now an honest and correct assessment, but it is true, as Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard says, that what is at the heart of the matter here is that the people from Syria who are in the sending position and who could actually be deployed if we had not taken the foreign policy decision that we will refrain from actions that can be interpreted as a normalisation of relations with the Syrian regime. That is the crux of the matter. Are we going to make the foreign policy decision or not? For obvious reasons, it seems to us that this is a correct decision. We stand with the United States, the United Kingdom, our EU allies on a common foreign policy position that we should not start to recognise the regime that is in Damascus as the legitimate government in Syria. One of the consequences of that decision is that we will then not be able to carry out compulsory broadcasts because this requires cooperation with the authorities, which we do not want to recognise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170747	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170750	Thank you. We've been through this issue about refugees from Syria and people from Syria who are being sent back or stay in Denmark. It's all depending on what angle you're looking at it from. But we have been through it sometimes, and therefore I would just like to hear the Minister's own assessment of, 1) whether Syria is a safe country to be in.I am thinking in particular that Denmark no longer has an embassy there. 2) whether in any world one can imagine that the current government will make agreements with war criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170828	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170829	Whether Syria is safe or not depends on who we are talking about. For some people it is not safe to go to Syria no matter where, even if it is the Damascus region. For others, it is certain, the Refugee Board assesses. This requires an individual assessment and that is what we ask the Foreign Affairs Council and the Refugee Board to do. In this way, I am not in favour of that concept of safe countries, because it removes the individual assessment, which I believe is the whole basis of the asylum policy that we have in Denmark and which all other civilised countries that have signed up to the refugee convention also have. We must insist that this is an individual assessment in each case and must be carried out by independent authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170917	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170921	Thank you for the floor, President. And thank you to the Minister. We have had this discussion many times, so it can be said that the different positions are certainly well known. I would like to ask the Minister whether he will confirm that Denmark is the only country to send Syrian refugees back to Syria. And then I would like to know whether the Minister will tell us whether there are any other Socialist colleagues in Europe who agree with the Minister that we should send Syrian refugees back to Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170958	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428170959	Perhaps I should start by saying that we are not, of course, a very large proportion of Syrians who are then at the exit centres in Denmark, not really at the centres, because they have had their residence permit withdrawn as a result of an assessment of their protection needs, but more because they have committed crime and have been sentenced to expulsion, but then they cannot be sent out because it is estimated that they would be at risk of persecution if they were sent back to Syria and then they are on what we call a tolerated stay. You will also be able to see in the statements I send to the Folketing every once in a while that there are more and more people on holiday, and this is due in particular to the fact that there are more and more Syrians on toil who have been recognised that they have a need for protection, but who have yet committed crime in Denmark, and therefore cannot be sent out because they would risk persecution when they came home. Other countries that assess whether there is a need for protection, whether they have a social democratic government or not, must look at the same refugee convention as we have to, and they must comply with the same rules as we have to. Whether they also have national legislation that provides protection for more than the conventions believe should be protected, I know that some countries have. There we have chosen in Denmark. It is a political choice to say that we are on the conventions and not on any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428171119	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks. The first is the rapporteur for the authors of Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428171139	Unfortunately, as I said before, it is not a success story that we have got so many Syrians to Denmark, and neither is the repatriation of Syrians. Last year, Jyllands-Posten reported that 7 Syrians had withdrawn their residence permit and had returned. At that time 279 Syrians had been deprived of their residence permit, but only 7 had returned home. This is because Denmark has no repatriation agreement with Syria. It is the view of the Danish People's Party that, to the extent that refugees are going to Denmark at all, they must at least return home once peace has been achieved in their home country. We have said this many times, and I would like to repeat it once again, and the situation in Syria today is different than when the Syrians left their country of origin: there is of course not Denmark. But the Islamic State no longer rules much of eastern Syria, and there is no civil war in that country. Since 2017, more than 400,000 Syrians have returned from Turkey to Syria. 66 per cent. of the Syrians in the EU have no ambition to return to their country of origin. The figure is probably even higher in reality. We have become used to generous conditions, as we offer them in the West, but the burden is not up to the Syrians themselves to decide whether to go home. If we were to withdraw their residence permit in Denmark, it would be urgent. Back in May 2021, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration claimed that the government was prepared to take drastic steps by creating the possibility of forced repatriation of the Syrians as soon as possible. It was the Social Democrat rapporteur who subsequently made some corrections by stating that the government did not justify the rapporteur's fact that Denmark was in the middle of the other EU countries putting pressure on the Assad regime. The pressure that should be put on the Assad regime is to get the regime to accept their own citizens. And that is why we need to hear what the government has been doing since May 2021 in order to have the 34,000 Syrian refugees who are staying in Denmark repatriated and who will be able to obtain permanent residence permits in Denmark if the government does not do anything. So this is important. It is really, really important that something is done and we do not just raise debates in this Parliament all the time without anyone happening, because that is what we are repeatedly facing, despite the fact that we, as Mr. Marcus Knuth said, actually discusses quite a lot of foreign policy, including about Syria. There are many motions for resolutions from the opposition, and there are not so many from the government, it has to be said, but something should be done because it is developing disastrously. That's a lot, a lot, and I just have to ask that too. Now we have the whole question of Ukraine, and there are a lot of people coming from Ukraine to Denmark. There we are showing a great deal of goodwill and that is not so much what I want to talk about, but at the moment we are hearing very little about how many others are coming. How many come from Syria, from other countries, from African countries and from the Middle East? This is, as it were, a little covered up because we have the great justified debate about Ukraine. We may, unfortunately, also see it from other countries in the neighbourhood. We'll have to face that. I just don't want to put a lid on it. We need to keep in mind that there are many from Middle Eastern countries, from Africa coming to Denmark, and that this has been closed down in view of the terrible situation in Ukraine. And that is why the Danish People's Party has raised this question debate, and I very much hope that it will lead to something sensible. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that 34,000 Syrian refugees are immediately ahead of obtaining permanent residence permits in Denmark and that hundreds of thousands of Syrians have already returned to Syria mainly from countries in the vicinity over recent years as a result of the improved situation in the country. The Folketing instructs the government to submit a final plan for the repatriation of refugees from Syria who have arrived here as a result of the Syrian civil war. In this connection, Parliament calls on the Government to contact the Syrian Government with a view to concluding a repatriation agreement covering the indigenous Syrians. • V 74).
ParlaMint-DK_20220428171634	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a brief comment from Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428171638	Thank you. And thank you for your speech and actually also for calling this inquiry debate. For I think it is forever relevant to discuss why Denmark as a country is so keen to send people back to countries where there is still war. I would therefore just like to ask Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard if it is not true that once a month you can read about people from Syria who are well integrated in Denmark, who are ready to be sent back to Syria. It is just to say, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, that from the other angle we do not believe that nothing is happening. In fact, we believe that the authorities and the government are extremely busy deporting Syrians and sending them back to the dictator from whom they have fled.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428171724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428171725	Well, they won't be sent home. Well, maybe they're deported and have to be sent home, but that just doesn't happen. That's the really, really big problem... that's just not gonna happen. In other words, there is a legitimate demand on the part of the authorities that they should go home, but that does not happen. That is the big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428171741	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428171742	Does Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard not think herself that the reason why they do not leave is that they are still on the run, that is, that it is dangerous for them to be in their country of origin? Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard would not himself return to a place where Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard would be in danger. So can you not see in the Danish People's Party that it is because you have stared blindly at Syria being somewhere safe?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428171808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428171809	I think it is a very nonchalant remark that we have been blinded by the fact that Syria should be a safe place. So it is not us in here, but the authorities who have made that decision. These are the authorities that we here in the Folketing have set up to assess these cases. Then I think it is strange if, as individual acids, you can stand and say: I am absolutely certain that this is a wrong decision. There is no point in Mrs Rosa Lund saying that so many decisions have been taken to return home, because they are not going home, and that is the big problem not only with Syrians but also with many others. You know, you decide that they have to go home, but nothing happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428171845	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund for Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428171900	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for calling this inquiry debate. This is an important issue that we continue to be very concerned about, including in the Social Democratic Party. We still believe that the protection of refugees must be based on a principle of temporaryity. This is a fundamental principle of our asylum legislation, which, fortunately, a broad majority in this Parliament is also behind. In other words, it is absolutely essential that former refugees return to their country of origin when they no longer have a need for protection. That is why we also went to the elections to strengthen the return effort, so that more people who no longer need protection are sent home to their country of origin. Since the elections, we have established the Home Travel Authority and have adopted a new Return Travel Act, both of which have contributed to fewer asylum seekers in removal positions than in the past. In 2021, there was a decrease in the number of rejected asylum seekers in removal positions of more than 30 per cent. After we passed the Return Travel Act, 25 exiles were sent out of Denmark in just 3 months after the bill came into force. In addition, we have strengthened the municipalities' obligation to provide guidance so that we can ensure that more people with immigrant backgrounds who have never fallen into Denmark return to their respective countries by means of the repatriation scheme. Against this background, I would like to read out the Social Democrats' proposal for a text for adoption: proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that it is a fundamental principle of Danish immigration policy that refugees are temporarily resident in Denmark as long as they meet the conditions and that they have to return home when conditions in their country of origin allow. V. 75)
ParlaMint-DK_20220428172037	Thank you. This gave rise to a brief remark by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428172041	Thank you. I asked the Minister when he intended to convene the discussions to which he has committed himself in the agreement on citizenship, and I was not given an answer. In fact, I also asked the Minister a few times yesterday. I didn't get an answer there either. Then I asked the rapporteur to pass on the question and the rapporteur was actually kind enough to text me that he had passed the question on to the Minister, but I have still not heard from the Minister. After all, the rapporteur is sitting next to the Minister, so perhaps you will be able to discuss in the next hour whether or not I can get an answer. That would certainly be very welcome. So I'll keep a watchful eye on my phone and see if I can get the answer today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428172114	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428172116	I think the easiest thing would be for me to give Mr. Simpson. Marcus Knuth the Minister's e-mail address after we have finished the debate here. Then it may be that we need to establish a direct line between Mr. Marcus Knuth and the Minister, because I think it is simply easier than that it should go through Mr Knuth, respectively. Mads Birded and Yours truly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428172134	There are no more brief comments. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, There is a brief comment on Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428172139	Well, I kind of just think you can go over to the other side, 'cause he's sitting right there. Well, go over and ask the minister. Why don't we go over there, sir? Marcus Knuth, and ask: Tell us once, when will we be called in for these negotiations? That's the easiest thing we can do. We don't have to talk past each other. We're right here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428172154	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428172155	I agree with that, but I have no wish to intervene in that, so if Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and Mr. Marcus Knuth would like to address the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428172205	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. Now it will then be possible for Mr. Mads Birds from the Left to come up as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428172225	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for calling for negotiations on a subject that we have been around sometimes in this Chamber, namely about Syrian refugees in Denmark. You could take one of your previous speeches, but you could also make a new one, and then you might be able to make a mix of the two, and here comes so little about the guiding principles that I think should apply when we discuss this subject. One must be that we support the principle of temporaryity, that we are therefore a refugee for a period of time. When it storms in your home country, you seek shelter from the storm, and when it no longer storms, you must of course go back to your country and help build it up again, if possible. We are full of understanding that wars can take so long that it can take so much time that it is not permissible, and then of course you get a connection with Denmark. We are certainly not there yet in relation to the Syrian refugees. Another principle that we in the Left think is very important is that we give broad and thorough support to the repatriation of Syrians so that we can help them get back to work when they choose Syria as the place where they are going to live. There have been unimaginable destructions in Syria and all those who have not fled Assad, but only from the war, have good opportunities to get their old lives back in a new form if we support them. It is another important principle for us in the Left that we look at the readmission agreement. I am glad that we have been part of an agreement that has made it much more targeted and we hope to see the outcome of it. Then, of course, there is something else that is important, namely that we should have confidence in the decision in the cases decided by the Danish authorities in this area. I think that every time we discuss the cases of Syrians, there is distrust of the Danish authorities. I would think it would be a real shame if we politicized that debate. We have chosen to let officials in a country committee handle these things, and then we have both the Foreigners' Board and the Refugee Board, who have to deal with these matters, and they use a precautionary principle that makes it clear that, even if you have the groundwork ready, there are still many cases that come out in such a way that you choose to look at how dangerous it may be in a thought situation to have to go back. Of course, it is also important for us to do so, in other words, to apply the precautionary principle to cases where there is the slightest doubt. With regard to the government's management of refugees from Syria and the debate that took place here, perhaps in a slightly different way than we are used to when the minister is asked to have a look in his calendar soon, so that we can talk about all the things that we, like Mr. Marcus Knuth mentioned, had to turn around in the context of the agreement on citizenship, I think we should have an appointment for that. And then, sir... Marcus Knuth not to tell me, so I can tell Mr. Knuth. Rasmus Stoklund, who can then pass it on to the minister, because now I say it directly that I think we should have a look at that at some point, because we are reaching that tipping point, where more and more Syrians get so attached to Denmark every day that they will actually have a permanent stay in Denmark. And that is not what we have said to the voters we are working for. So it is certainly important to discuss it. That is why we in the Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance have agreed on the following adoption text: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament finds that refugees are entitled to stay in Denmark as long as they meet the conditions and that they must return home as soon as the criteria for repatriation are met. Parliament wants to ensure, as far as possible, that temporary protection does not develop into de facto permanent residence. Parliament also wants to strengthen the repatriation scheme so that more Syrians can receive help for voluntary return. • V 75).
ParlaMint-DK_20220428172654	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428172711	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party, I would actually like to take this opportunity to say that we can once again debate the situation in Syria and, above all, the situation of Syrian refugees in Denmark. For us in the Enhedslisten this is a very relevant debate, and it is also important for us in the Enhedslisten that we continue to talk about the existence of refugees in Denmark other than the Ukrainians, although we consider it from a slightly different angle than Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party. In 1951, i.e. 70 years ago, Denmark was one of the first countries to sign the UN Refugee Convention, and before that the world had seen unimaginable suffering and experienced what the consequences might be when people have to flee their homeland just to discover that other countries are ignoring their prayer for help. Unfortunately, Denmark was not much better itself and rejected Jews fleeing from Germany until 1943. It is, of course, from the historical background that the refugee convention was created, and Denmark was, as I said, one of the first countries to sign it and to sign that people fleeing must have the right to seek asylum and that those receiving asylum must have the opportunity to integrate and feel safe in their new country. I think you know that story. In recent years we have heard again and again from the platform I am standing on now that Denmark is being overrun by asylum seekers. It has been repeated so many times that it seems that everyone has just taken for granted that it should be true. And again and again it has been used as an argument for Denmark to be as hard as possible in foreign policy. But although there are many people in this Chamber who do not want to talk about it, the truth is that there have never been so few people seeking asylum in Denmark before as there are right now. The truth is that we have also shown in the last few months that when we have to, we can welcome refugees properly in Denmark. And that is the spirit we have from the special law on Ukrainians that I think we can carry into this debate when we talk about refugees from Syria. It is clear from the Refugee Convention that people fleeing may be able to withdraw their residence permit after fundamental, stable and lasting changes have taken place in their country of origin. This means that people who are in Denmark and are granted a residence permit under the Refugee Convention • what we know as Section 7 of the Aliens Act. 1, or § 8, para. In the event of fundamental changes in their country of origin, they may be withdrawn from their residence permit. It is just that Syria is not a safe country. Both Amnesty and Human Rights Watch have documented that it is not. The reason why we are in a situation where our authorities can do so is because I agree with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard when she says that it is the decision of the authorities that it is a set of rules that has been made in this Chamber by politicians. And that was among other things. The Social Democrats and the Radical Left at least it was those who sat in the government that introduced Section 7 of the Aliens Act in 2015. 3, which is the reason why we can now send back to countries where there are no lasting and stable improvements. I know you regret this in the Radical Left, and it is nice, but as long as the paragraph has not been changed, we cannot use that regret for much. I hope that the Socialists will soon change their views on this. Specifically, what means that Denmark, as one of the only countries with which we usually compare ourselves, is now refusing Syrian refugees, yes § 7 para. 3. And in concrete terms, this means that Syrian families are separated. In concrete terms, this means that they sit in exit centres and to use the minister's own words • actually just spin around themselves; because I've heard the minister say that's what you do when you're at an exit center. In fact, I agree with that and I think we should have done away with it. So I believe that the solution to the problem that the Danish People's Party raises today is that we do not include the residence permits; that we ensure that people from Syria who are in Denmark can get into education, get into work, can become part of society and contribute to Danish society. Because there is a reason why people do not go home or back to Syria and it is that it is dangerous for them to be there. I now have no more time, so I shall be quick to greet the Socialist People's Party and say that they are sorry that they cannot be here, but that they, like the Radical Left, support the proposal for adoption which I am reading out now. On behalf of EL, SF and RV, I shall make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government to stop returning to Syria. The situation in Syria is currently too uncertain for people who have fled Assad to be sent back. The Folketing also calls on the government to amend Article 7 of the Aliens Act. 3, so that there must be lasting and stable conditions in the home country in order to be able to return. • V 77).
ParlaMint-DK_20220428173232	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428173236	Thank you. Mrs. Rosa Lund said there was a reason they wanted to be here. Yes, of course there is. We all know that. Well, Denmark is a great country to be in, and I would like to admit that I think I would, too; I would rather be here than in Syria. I think so. I don't know. Then there's another thing that I really overwhelmed. Mrs. Rosa Lund, like, hascelerated that when the authorities say that and that, it's because it's decided in here. Yes, that is what is called popular rule, namely that a large majority, a very large majority, has decided how the authorities should act in these contexts, so I think that is actually very natural.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428173321	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428173322	I agree with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard that it is quite natural that this is the way it is. And that is precisely why, in the Enhedslisten, we often raise the issue in the people's regime, particularly in this Parliament Hall, both in motions for resolutions, in question debates, as Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard herself does, and in committee issues. I think the Minister can sign that. That is precisely because it is politically decided, and that is what we in the Enhedslisten want to change to take the last one first. In addition, it is true that Denmark is a nice to be in. But I think most people really want to be in the country where they have built their lives up. For some people, it's Syria. There is a reason why they do not go back, and that is that it is dangerous for them to be there. It's not just because it's so super delicious to be in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428173408	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428173409	We cannot know that, but I fully agree that one should have the love of one's homeland that one goes back. But we just see that there are 34,000 Syrians, like pt. The authorities say otherwise, they stand and receive permanent residence permits • ah, that is, in relation to all of them being very frightened. Mrs Lund must therefore also agree that as long as this is the case, we must abide by it, that is to say, that we have set up how the authorities should act, and we must abide by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428173447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428173448	Well, I agree that we must comply with the law, but I just think that this is very funny, you might say that the reports by Amnesty on the situation in Syria and the reports by Human Rights Watch on Syria are not being used very much in these decisions. After all, these organisations are documenting that Syria is not safe, and that is why, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, there are so many people who are currently staying in Denmark. Because I think they have exactly the patriotic feeling that both I myself have and that I know that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard also has.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428173524	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more brief comments. Then we'll move on, and then it'll be mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428173536	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling the question here. For us in Conservatives, it is essential that temporary protection does not develop into de facto permanent residence, and we can, unfortunately, see that Syrians are among the nationalities who are now increasingly seeking permanent residence; that was also mentioned by the Minister. It is still small numbers, but the reality is that because the time has passed since the refugee crisis, more and more people are meeting at least the requirements for length of stay in Denmark, and when it is the case that one has only been permanently resident, if there is peace in all parts of Syria, then people will just stay. From our side we have tried with a number of measures to reverse that trend, but unfortunately both the government and a majority in the Folketing are not willing to back it up. Even because it was so important to us, in cooperation with the Danish People's Party and with the Left and with the Liberal Alliance, we have written into the agreement on citizenship that the Minister should call for discussions precisely that temporary protection does not develop into permanent residence. Now I am such a very authoritative person, and that is why we are only communicating through microphones and official channels, so now that I have the platform, I would like to say directly to the Minister that it is therefore over a year since we have had a meeting in this regard, and in our agreement it says that the Minister must convene a discussion is We have had one meeting and if we are going to have discussions is So we are waiting anxiously for the next discussion to be. I do not think that is an argument, as the Minister said before in the Chair, when I asked when the next meeting would be that the Minister could not see himself making any changes to the rules of permanent residence. That's not an answer. In other words, when the Minister and the Social Democrats have decided that we should have a debate, we have also included the wording in the text of the resolution which the Left has just read out. Then we have also proposed various things, from a permanent residence ceiling to the fact that young 18-year-olds do not just have to have permanent stays without further ado. It is not in any way something that solves everything in relation to getting Syrians home, but it is some small steps that must at least make sure that no more and more people just get permanent residence, but unfortunately there is no support for that. Unfortunately, the reality is that the longer it takes, the harder it is to get Syrians home, and the more people get permanent residence, and then Denmark is left with a huge integration burden and unfortunately also in many cases unemployment, crime and growing parallel societies. Therefore, a big thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate. I hope that it will help to get the government to wake up to some extent and actually start taking this issue seriously and at least call for the next discussion in the discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428173832	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428173843	Thank you for the floor, President. I would like to start by wishing all Danish Muslims a happy eid. The Ramadan is about to end, and I hope you will have some amazing festivities with your close and loved ones. Eid Mubarak! Syria is not safe. Human Rights Watch notes that, as Amnesty International observes. There is war, death and destruction in Syria. And that is also why we in Denmark do not have an embassy in Syria. If it were safe in Syria, then we would have an embassy; then we would have traditional diplomatic relations. But we do not, and we do not, because it is not safe. And that is why it is the position of the Free Greens that we should not send Syrian refugees back to death, war and destruction. We simply cannot do that when it is that all major international organizations say it is not safe for Syrians. Then I think it is also crucial to remember that as long as Syrian refugees cannot be sent back, we must ensure, out of respect for them, but also very much respect for ourselves and the enlightened society we are, that they have proper conditions as long as they are in Denmark. Now there has been talk of the exit centres here in the debate today, and this is an example of the fact that the conditions that we offer to Syrian refugees and other refugees are not proper, are not worthy. So I also believe that today's debate has shown that we cannot talk about Syrian refugees and then rule out talking about the fact that the conditions we have at our exit centres are not worthy. We have to do something about them. Last but not least, I also believe that there is another issue that my colleagues have not addressed today, and that is the problem with the young people who came here fleeing from war, death and destruction at a young age at the age of 9-10 years and who are today 16-17-18 years old. The question is, what is their home? Is their home Syria, or is their home now Denmark? If you ask Free Greens, their home is Denmark. Young people who are in high school here and who have lived here since they were 10 years old have grown up in Danish society together with us and with Danish values. And then it is a legitimate question to ask: is it fair, no matter what, to send them back to a place they really do not know and have not experienced at their young age or their adult life? So my appeal from this to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration is: do not send people who have fled from war, death and destruction back to the misery from which they have fled. When you are a fugitive, it is fair that you have to go back when the conditions are such that you can come back, but let us instead focus on the fact that as long as people are here, we have to treat them properly. And we have shown that we know how to treat people properly. We have shown that with the Ukrainian refugees. So let us treat all refugees properly and let us show all refugees the same mercy as we have shown to the Ukrainian refugees. For a fugitive is a fugitive. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428174400	Thank you. That too will be part of the further debate. Then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428174414	Thank you. Thank you, Mr President, and thank the rapporteurs for the debate. Although not all parties have been represented in the debate, this is, after all, a subject that we have been around in some rounds gradually, and what I think is left is that if we really want people who have been granted their residence permit to go home and they do not want to do so voluntarily, we will, in normal circumstances, ensure that there is an accompanying broadcast that can be carried out to most of the countries of the world. We have so politically decided in the government that we do not want to do so for foreign policy reasons, because we do not want to normalise relations with the regime that is in Damascus, thereby breaking the foreign policy line that several Western countries • many Western countries • and all our main allies have. So it is very important for the government that we do not break the Western Alliance and start to normalize relations with Assad. On the other hand, there is an enormous amount of political discussion about the fact that a very, very small number of Syrians who have arrived here do not have their residence permits extended. The vast majority of the general rule for the thousands of Syrians who came back here in 2014, 2015 2016 is that they are granted an extension of their residence permit because the authorities consider that they continue to have a need for protection. If this discussion is to continue, perhaps the right wing should recognise that we should not break the foreign policy line that the government has adopted, which follows on from the line of our Western allies, not to recognise the Assad regime, and then perhaps even on the left there could be a little proportionality in the discussion, in that it is incredibly few Syrian refugees who are actually getting their residence permit involved in the Refugee Board, and that in the very few cases there are, we must rely on the authorities we have set to assess whether there is a real need for protection also having control over the decisions they take. They work with the international conventions every day, and those conventions are the backbone of our alien law. When I look at the texts that have been distributed today, it reminds me of some other questions we have had in the field of foreigners, and I am also sure that the rapporteurs will be able to recognise some of the pattern. And I wonder if it will end when we vote on them that they will all be voted down. I do not really think that will do anything, because a good, healthy debate in which the positions are outlined is also good, but to those who follow in the debate, I would just like to say that the general experience that I have, after working on foreign policy in the Parliamentary Assembly since 2015 • and that is after all 7 years • is that the vast majority of the legislation we adopt in this House actually has very broad parliamentary support and that the stability we have missed in the area of foreigners is gradually coming into being, and it is not only under this government that it has also been under the previous one. I think that's worth holding on to. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428174740	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428174745	Thank you. I think the Minister can guess what I'm going to ask. Does the Minister intend to convene the next round of the discussions?
ParlaMint-DK_20220428174807	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428174808	Thank you. I was just given the opportunity, when I was sitting in my seat, to find the exact wording that we agreed on in relation to the new citizenship rules, which states that: With the agreement, the government undertakes to call for discussions before the summer break on how the involvement of the authorities can be organised so as to ensure, as far as possible, that temporary protection does not develop into a de facto permanent stay. As I have said, we have had one discussion of this, and if there is a desire from the Conservative People's Party and I hear that there is a new round about it in the contract circle behind citizenship, then we just put it on the agenda for the next meeting, where we already have a few additional outstandings we need to settle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428174853	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428174854	Thank you. Then I can at least say that on the right-wing side over here there are three happy people looking forward to those discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428174901	Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428174906	Now the Minister mentioned all these proposals for adoption, and I do not know how many there are, five or six. In fact, I believe that, when we have a question debate, we do not necessarily need to make a proposal for adoption at all times. It's become such a trend, and what do we really get out of it? On Tuesday they will all be voted down; there is no doubt about that at all. It is a mark that we should perhaps discuss a little about is necessary, or whether we should just take this question and talk about things. Having said that, I notice that there is a big difference in what you really mean. For the Socialists say that they cannot return because there is danger in their country of origin. What the Minister is saying, and that is what this is all about, is that this is foreign policy... you don't want to cooperate with Assad. The minister does not mention that with danger in his home country and something like that, and I fully agree. Well, what it's really about is that you don't want to cooperate with Assad.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428174959	I would just like to follow up Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's comment, because that is quite right: Parliament's Rules of Procedure do not require any proposal for adoption, but it is possible. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175009	Then I would say that I learned something too, because I actually thought that was all I expected. But I think that is relevant to discuss, because the good thing about the questions we have in the field of foreigners is usually the debate and rarely the proposals for adoption. And then Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is right that what is the government's argument for not concluding a repatriation agreement with Assad is that it would mean that the Danish authorities would have to enter into formal discussions with the Assad authorities, and we do not recognise the authorities of Assad as the legitimate government in Syria, and we will not in this way help normalise the relationship. It is a foreign policy decision. It has nothing to do with the protection requirements. There we trust the decision of the Refugee Board that they do not need protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175057	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175058	That is true, and in fact it is political disagreement. That is what this is all about. That is the political disagreement, because I assume that the Minister and, incidentally, the Left and Conservatives agree that if we had that agreement, they could be returned, even according to the authorities. Having said that, and this is quite another thing, and I think I would like to follow it up, I think we should address ourselves to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, if we should not always come up with those proposals for adoption where we are sitting and spending time, and I do not know what, to make these proposals for adoption, unless it is quite obvious that we can get a good vote through. But it's very rare it happens, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175139	I should leave that to our group chairman. However, I would like to say that there are plenty of governments with which, to put it mildly, I find problematic, which are not democratic and which treat their people badly, but with which we still have repatriation agreements. We even have a country like Iran with which we would very much like to have a repatriation agreement. So it is not an assessment of whether we like the regime or not. It is a question of whether we will recognise the regime in foreign policy, and it is of course no secret that Assad has stood on a side other than the West, and that is why we do not want to recognise his authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175218	Sir. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175220	Thank you for the floor, President. If this is about the government not wanting to recognise Assad, which I think is quite right, then when you have said A, you must also say B. Surely the Syrian refugees should not be punished for this. I think that's weird. If you do not want to recognise, if you do not want to have these discussions with the Assad regime, then you cannot make this repatriation agreement, and then there are people who cannot come home, but surely it should not affect the refugees who are here. That is why I appeal to and say that, regardless of what, including respect for the fact that they are people, and also respect for ourselves, we must, of course, treat those people properly. Why, then, do we not create proper conditions for these refugees, as we have for the Ukrainian refugees? If we want to, we can treat people properly if we want to, so why aren't we doing it? The Minister himself says this on the basis of the question put by Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Make a deal, but you won't. But I don't want these refugees to be harmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175324	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175326	I don't think anyone's gonna get hurt either. People who have no residence in Denmark must travel out of Denmark. As a starting point, they must do so voluntarily, and that is what the vast majority of foreigners do without problems. There is a small nucleus that does not do so voluntarily, and they are then sent by force, that is to say often accompanied, and we can do so to virtually all the countries of the world, but we cannot go to some individual countries, and there are some individual countries that we do not want, and one of those countries is Syria, but that has nothing to do with the Syrian refugees. So for the fact that we have to treat everyone like the Ukrainians, I would say that some 8 000 applications have now been dealt with under the Ukrainian special law, and practically all Ukrainians have been granted a residence permit. We have de facto free immigration from Ukraine now. So if we were to treat everyone like Ukrainians, we would de facto have free immigration from all over the world, and I do not think that would be sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175419	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175420	Then some interesting things have emerged in this debate, and I would like to congratulate Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard on that. The debate has been interesting and one of the things I found interesting here today was the discussion between Mrs Rosa Lund and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, and it was this about whether authority decisions are political or whether they are not political. We then made it clear today that they are political, where the minister has a tendency to justify or unjustified always to say: hey, this is not about what I think and think this is about what the authorities have decided. However, this is a political decision, and I would therefore like to challenge the Minister that it should always be about the decisions of the authorities when it is really about politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175507	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175508	Is it a political decision if a municipality says that you can build a carport? Is that a political decision? It is, of course, in the sense that the official handling the application to build a carport is acting on the basis of some politically agreed rules. But I just think that we have a healthy tradition in Denmark that we adopt rules in the Folketing, and then we ask some people, some officials, according to some general administrative traditions and with respect for our constitution, our international conventions and with some equal treatment principles, to deal with the matter. That is what we are doing in the Foreign Affairs Council, and as we subsequently ask the Refugee Board to do. I do not think that makes their decisions political, but it is, of course, on the basis of a political decision they make it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175551	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175552	Thank you. It's because the minister said he didn't think it hurt anyone, that we didn't want to make a repatriation agreement with Assad. I agree that we should not work with Assad, but I do not agree that no one is harmed. After all, the people who are sitting at the exit centre right now are suffering from very poor conditions, for example. I'm not allowed to work. So someone's gonna get hurt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175622	So just first: a very large proportion of Syrians who are at the exit centre sit there because they have committed serious crime and have been deployed. But yes, it may also be people who have not committed crime and who have had their residence permit withdrawn. If Denmark had a repatriation agreement with Syria and did, as for example. The Danish People's Party wishes, so those people would be escorted, for example. by Danish police aboard the plane. As long as we don't have a return agreement, there isn't such a forced broadcast. But in any case, they have the opportunity to leave voluntarily. No one is preventing them from going to Stockholm, visiting the Syrian embassy, getting the travel documents they need and taking the plane home. They can even get a bag of money to do so, and by the way, some people do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175708	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175709	I can reassure the Minister that I am a very diligent rapporteur for foreigners I know the rules. But thanks for the sketch. What I mean, and I think the Minister knows that too, is that as long as we do not have a repatriation agreement with Assad, which I know God does not mean we should have, it makes absolutely no sense that right now we are asking people to sit and to use the Minister's own words to spin around themselves in an exit centre. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175737	We're not asking them to do that either. We're asking them to go home. If they do not want to go home then it is true that there is no legal residence in Denmark and then they live in an exit centre. I just think it is very important to maintain that the decision that has been taken says that they must go home. They can always do that. It is entirely voluntary, and no one holds them in Denmark. Last year, by the way, there were a little more than 150 Syrians who went home with repatriation aid from Denmark; so there is traffic, and there are plenty of people who want to go to Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175803	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, but Pia Kjærsgaard wants to round off, and Pia Kjærsgaard is allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428175826	However, I think that we have had some clarification here during this debate on the question. Because, as the Minister also said here at the end, people can go home, in other words without a repatriation agreement with Assad, when the immigration authorities say they have to do so. I still think we have moved some things, I have to say, so it hasn't been completely in vain. But otherwise I would like to thank you for this question debate. One way or another it can be said that the Folketing is grouping itself into three factions: those parties which believe that the Syrians should stay in Denmark and thus actually believe that refugees should be made immigrants in Denmark; those parties which believe that the Syrians should go home but which cannot give any viable way to achieve that project; and those parties which, like the Danish People's Party, are willing to actually do what it takes to effect the repatriation of Syrian refugees. It is very easy to have some idea in principle that the Syrians are going home, but the way to get the Syrians home goes through the Syrian Government, for those who do not want to go home voluntarily. There is no other way to force repatriation than to have an agreement with the government to do so. You can have all sorts of attitudes towards the Syrian regime, just as you can have all sorts of attitudes towards other regimes. And there are few countries where you can have as good a life as you can in Denmark. Syria is not a country that flows in milk and honey, but Syria is no longer a country that is necessarily insecure to live in. In the vast majority of Syria there is no war anymore. These may be countries where we can say yes in this way, but there are several countries, among others. Jordan and the Emirates, which have concluded agreements with the Assad Government on the repatriation of refugees to Syria. The alternative is that the 34 000 Syrian refugees will end up with permanent residence permits in Denmark. They are made into immigrants and part of Denmark's already very big problem of immigration from predominantly Muslim countries. I don't think the government should sit on its hands. The government must do what is necessary to have the persons in question repatriated. It is, in the view of the Danish People's Party, a bottom-up task, and unfortunately we see a government that does nothing to have the Syrian refugees' residence permit removed and sent home. I would like to thank you for the debate. As I said, it does not appear that there is a majority in favour of the Danish People's Party's proposal, but also in favour of the other proposals for adoption. I am opposed in principle to covering other parties, I must admit, but Mrs Pernille Vermund asked me to do so today and to say that she is voting in favour. And when I do, it's because she has an operation, so she's having a hard time being here, and I think we can be nice to each other. So that's what it looks like. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428180121	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220428180129	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. Parliament's next meeting will be held tomorrow, Friday, 29 April, 10 a.m. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
