ParlaMint-DK_20220518100000	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 11 May 2022, it was decided that the responsibility for the secretariat service of the Dataetic Council was transferred from the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Business to the Minister for Health. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 11 May 2022 provides that the responsibility for the secretariat service of the Dataetic Council is transferred from the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Business to the Minister of Health per year. 16 May 2022. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen
ParlaMint-DK_20220518100025	The debate is open. Here you go, Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518100046	30% of our CO2 That figure must be reduced and this requires that we relate to our modes of transport. Let me make it quite clear that many people are deeply dependent on their car and cannot do without it, but we must also dare to be honest that there are many who use the car on the very short trips where it is not crucial. As I understand the proposal, it is the issue that lies behind the proposal that is being presented here. The proposal states that advertising for cars requires information and a ban on showing certain types of cars in these advertisements. This is not a proposal that we in the government can support, but it does not change the fact that it is a bottom-up task to get more people to be in the car, to choose public transport or to cycle or to use other modes of transport than private carism. We have a task to do about informing better about which cars are best for the climate. There is already a requirement for a text for the labelling of energy consumption for passenger cars, which states that driving mode affects the actual consumption of a car and CO2 At the same time, it is important to note that this information and labelling requirements apply so that consumers have the necessary information when choosing which car to buy and use. The motion for a resolution contains a further proposal for an extension of existing requirements with information on the total annual CO2 Government immediately seems that such an extension sounds like an interesting idea, because more information can generally provide more transparency and be relevant to a potential car buyer. At the same time, demands for further information on new passenger cars may have consequences for business, which must also be monitored. That is why we believe that the right way forward is to examine the possibilities for that part more closely. The government cannot support the resolution as a whole, but we would like to be involved in examining this last part a little more closely, just as I think that we have an important task ahead of us in ensuring that several Danes choose alternatives to the car, especially on the very short journeys where the car can be spared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518100345	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518100347	I see this as a very positive reception of the motion for a resolution. Fair enough, that you do not want to go into what it is, but as I hear the Minister for Transport, I understand that, after all, there is something interesting to be said about the whole idea of advertising cars. And that's what's the main essence. I think it is worth pointing out that we are not trying to ban cars, at least with this proposal; it is an attempt, of course, to curb, if I may say so, the consumption of fossil cars and hence the consumption of CO2 do I hear the Minister say something about the fact that perhaps there could be a country's reporting which is in line with the content of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518100449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518100450	There are parts of the proposal that we can at least discuss further in relation to a report. This general ban and the general duty is another thing, and there are also things that already apply today; but when it comes to looking at the extension of the current requirement for information on the total annual CO2 I am also very happy to discuss, and it is in addition to this, how we can be better at informing and motivating citizens that the bike on the very short trips to bakery Sunday morning, for example, if there is a shorter distance to bakery Sunday morning, is also an alternative. It is not about forcing citizens to do anything; it is about pointing out these alternatives that are good for the climate as well as for the individual.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518100552	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518100553	I am pleased that the Minister has mentioned this, because it is an essential part of the proposal, in other words, to focus attention and attention on the possibilities of taking the bike, using public transport and taking advantage of co-driving. It is actually an important part of the resolution. What we are proposing is that when you are faced with buying a car, or rather: when you sit at home in front of TV2 and TV2 News and see these many, many car ads pouring over you, you are actually made aware that there are some alternatives to the CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220518100634	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518100635	So what we're talking about is making a definite ban on this type of advertising, or if you imagine that after advertising there's gonna be a picture of a bike or something like that, maybe that's not it, sir. Henning Hyllested must hear me say in relation to a future story. But information on the total CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220518100712	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. We start with the rapporteur's line, and first it's Mr. Knox. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518100724	Thank you, President. As I have said, we are dealing with a motion for a resolution to introduce a ban on advertising CO2 in general terms, we have an ambitious reduction target and a binding task. That is why we want, and that is why we are working to reduce CO2 It is a multifaceted and major task that the government has been working to solve since its accession. And one thing is that we have an ambition for one million green cars and greener fuels; another is that we should make it easier for the Danes to make green choices when they go from a to b. This resolution has two elements. One is to ban advertising for certain types of cars, and that is a road that we in the Socialist Group do not want to go down. We would rather inspire and enlighten the car buyers than forbid anything. For the same reason, instead, we welcome the second element of the motion for a resolution, which is precisely about informing the consumer about alternative and greener modes of transport and marking that driving on fossil fuels is climate-damaging. As it is now, we already have a requirement that it should be stated that driving behaviour is important for CO2 2 These information and labelling requirements are intended to inform the consumer so that it is possible to make a choice on the purchase of a car on an informed basis. The motion for a resolution proposes to extend the current requirements so that the annual CO2 Such an extension would seem to us to make sense immediately, because our experience is that the Danes make more green choices as long as they are given the opportunity. In view of the fact that increased transparency and greater information will be relevant when you have to choose which car you want to buy, that is a sensible way to go. However, it is not everything in this resolution that the Social Democrats can support, and therefore we cannot vote in favour of it. But I also think immediately from the debate between the proposer and the Minister for Transport that we could jointly consider writing a report on the elements on which we can gather in committee, so that I look forward to further committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101003	A brief comment from Mr. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101005	Well, of course, I'm really glad that mr. Thomas Jensen is suggesting that we may be able to land a report, at least on parts of it. You've come this far. I am also pleased with the remarks that Mr. Thomas Jensen believes that consumers will actually make green choices if they are informed about this. And that is why it can be sensible, for example. to provide information on CO2 It is less than 2.2 tonnes per year. years, for which we have calculated it. I don't really think that information is such a well-known fact... I don't think so... when people are about to buy a new car. And I think that the figure itself, when you see it, is quite violent; that a single person or car emits so much per car. years. So I understand that information too, sir. Thomas Jensen said that you would like to be involved in discussing whether you can be included in an advertisement for a car, that is to say, that you serve such information.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101108	Yes, if it is practically possible for us to do so. Because it is also the fact that you have to go out to estimate what an average car is and what the driving pattern is for different citizens. Some drive a long way to work, others can take the bike to work and maybe use the car for weekend activities and some leisure activities. So there is a very big difference between who is using the car and that must of course be estimated, and we must have some wise heads do and present it to us so that we can make sure that we hit within the dial of what is also realistic in relation to the individual Dane's emissions if you acquire a particular vehicle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101147	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101148	That is absolutely right. Of course, we also imagine that, in other words, if you were to introduce such a requirement for advertising, you would obviously have to have a calculation. There are people sitting and counting on this in advance, and we haven't even pulled the number out of thin air or had some advisors in the Enhedslisten sitting and counting on it. Of course, we have dealt with what we read about, and there it is as an average driving. But it is clear that it must, of course, be calculated in a proper way. But what does the rapporteur say about our demand for advertising that people, for example, should be given the right to vote in local elections? banning advertising for the most CO2 We have a whole graduated scale, so I would like to hear a comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101228	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101228-2	At first sight, I think that banning advertising for such cars is a wrong step to take. I believe that if citizens are informed of the environmental consequences of each vehicle, they can also make the good choice and the green choice in the light of it. And that is the purpose of this proposal, and that is also the way we want to go down, instead of making all kinds of bans.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101255	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments and we can move on to Mrs Bjerre, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101302	Thank you. With this resolution, it is proposed to introduce a number of requirements for Danish car advertising. Specifically, it is proposed that car advertising should include calls to give priority to walking and cycling for short trips up to 8 km, to use public transport on a daily basis and to make use of co-driving. It also proposes a definite ban on advertising cars with emissions of more than 123 g CO2 driven kilometres. The proposers also propose that the existing requirements for fuel consumption information and CO2 2 In the Left, we take the climate challenges very seriously, but we do not believe that what is proposed here is the right tool. At the same time, we welcome the fact that, fortunately, the green transition in the car industry is already well under way. We are pleased that a great many car manufacturers are already competing to deliver as green cars as possible, thereby also advertising how green their car brand is, and therefore also how green their cars are. They are already engaged in massive information campaigns where customers are guided in what is the greenest and most fuel-efficient option when driving. The proposers propose that the existing requirements for fuel consumption and CO2 emissions should be supplemented with requirements for a total CO2 limit. This is not something we in the Left agree with. We believe that customers should be advised to make green choices, but that the decision on what is the right vehicle for the individual is an individual decision that must be made by the citizen himself. A ceiling on an annual CO2 Very many people live in places in Denmark where there is a great distance between jobs, homes, institutions and shopping opportunities, and an electric car may not be enough, or it is still too expensive. A great many people do not have the opportunity to use public traffic or bikes when they go down and trade, for example. Those people do not need to have their individual freedom restricted by an annual CO2 ceiling. In addition, this proposal could also be contrary to EU law and the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which precisely guarantees freedom of information and expression and freedom to set up and operate its own business. That is why the Left cannot support the proposal, but we hope that a report can be produced where it can be examined what opportunities there are for extending the information requirements in advertising and at sales outlets, for example, on annual CO2 Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101605	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101608	Thanks for the call... despite it's a rejection... that we're trying to land a report. I think that may be what we are going to hear throughout the debate, so that is very good. The rapporteur says that the Left would also like to contribute to being guided to make the green choices, but that is what the proposal is intended for. It is precisely in the case of advertising that it is pointed out in this context that there are some alternative modes of transport which are more appropriate in some contexts. I would like to stress once again that this is not a ban on buying cars. After all, we ourselves proposed a ban on the sale of new fossil cars from 2025, but we could not do so because of the European Union, among other things. But this is not a ban. You miss a bit if you can't see that this is actually an attempt to take part in the guidance that consumers can make the green choices.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101712	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101712-2	We would like some more information, and that is also why we hope that a common report text can be landed, for example where there is more information about annual CO2 but the fact that one has to demand that there should be guidance in advertising that one can go or one can cycle or one can use public transport, we find it difficult to see because for a great many Danes it is just not an option. To have to go in and dictate from Christiansborg what advertising should look like, we find it very difficult to see ourselves in. In addition, there is also a ban in the proposal which is being proposed here, because we want to impose a strict ban on advertising of cars which emit more than a certain amount of CO2.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101753	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101754	It is not that we in this country are unaware of the fact that we are advising in the way that we put information in advertising, for example. on the danger of smoking. We have also referred to this in our resolution. We compare a little with what is happening in the tobacco sector. Because it is a fact that CO2 etc. is seriously harmful to health and actually costs many deaths per year. years, also in Denmark. That is why we do not think it is unnatural to use the same method, if I may say so, in relation to cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101831	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101832	Well, as I said before, we would like to have some more information for the Danes, but it is just a bit in contrast to this proposal, where you want to go in and impose on those who advertise cars that you have to advise the Danes that they need a different mode of transport where it is not possible. We do not think that this is linked, nor does it relate to the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101855	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101908	Thank you. I fully agree with the proposers that we should reduce emissions of CO2 The tough measures that can help us to do so, I believe, among other things. is the existing tax exemption for electric cars, high petrol taxes, which we have today, and, for my part, I would very much like to see a ban on the sale of petrol cars from 2030. I think there needs to be some quite tough measures to bring down emissions from private carism. But as long as cars are legal, I also think that the market should be allowed to function, including by advertising and pricing its products in relation to those of others. I, like the other speakers, would very much like to discuss the possibility of making a report on information on the total CO2 level. I think that makes sense, but we cannot support the proposal as it stands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101956	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518101958	Of course, I'm sorry. I would have expected the Radical Left to support this because, after all, it goes in that direction, or whatever to call it, as both the Radical Left and the Enhedslist would like here. I understand that this is the free market and the possibility of influencing advertising, which is the stumbling block, but this is not unknown, as I said to the Left rapporteur before. We're doing it, for example. in the tobacco sector; with great pleasure I think most people do. So why not also in the car sector, which also involves something harmful to health?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102041	We've banned tobacco advertising. Smoking is a personal choice that causes very great damage to the individual. I do not think you can make a one-to-one comparison with the car area. But it is true that we have some areas, for example. in relation to games in which we regulate advertising, and also in relation to tobacco, and I also believe that advertising is regulated in relation to alcohol. These are precisely products which can lead to very bad behaviour on the part of the individual if they are abused, and I do not think that one by one can compare this with private carism. So we want to regulate private carism and make sure that its emissions fall, but I do not think this is what is at the top of our toolbox.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102114	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102116	I think you can almost compare it to you. So it can be said that tobacco is widely used, and it is indeed cars, that is what we have to say, and since there are harmful health effects in both, I cannot quite understand why it is not actually possible to do so in relation to cars. We are now proposing a ban on the most polluting cars, but this is not a ban on advertising; we are forcing manufacturers to introduce information on alternative modes of transport, for example. in the form of walking, cycling and co-driving.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102153	Thank you. Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102154	Thank you. I have read the proposal. I think it's gonna be a little too complicated this thing about having to dictate exactly what these advertisers are supposed to advertise in terms of things to be claimed. I do not think it gives opinions as long as there is a market for cars where you should be allowed to advertise them. Next up, where does this end? Should we then also ban advertising for beef, petrol stations and air travel? I am imagining a series of motions for resolutions of this nature from the hands of the Enhedslisten in the future. So we want to regulate, but not with this instrument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102227	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we move on to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102234	Thank you very much. When I sat in my office last Thursday and got this motion for a resolution, I was just about to fall off the chair. At first glance, it can cause a conservative to lose weight and feel physically ill when one hears that Enhedslisten is now almost going to compare advertising for cars with advertising for cigarettes. But when you read down the text, there are good and sympathetic proposals in it, and what I am aware of here is information through advertising and that through energy labelling and so on. can make it a little easier for consumers to keep an eye on what your car can do. But this ban on emissions of more than 123 g CO2 Nor can we see ourselves in the proposal in general. Then these SUVs, that is, these Sport Utility Vehicles, are even described in the proposal, and then I called my good friend from Peugeot in Vejle and asked: Per, how is CO 2 And there I was told that such a Peugeot 3008 emits just about 30 g • a little above or a little below, it was something like that. So I think that the registration of those cars in the proposal is quite wrong. So we cannot support the proposal, but if there is some report from sensible people in the Chamber, we would very much like to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102407	Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102408	I hope now that the rapporteur did not get hurt when he fell out of the chair, and that does not seem to be the case. So it's okay. Is the rapporteur aware, as the Minister pointed out, that 30% of the budget is spent on agriculture? CO2 of that comes from road transport of one kind or another, including, of course, first and foremost from passenger cars, which emit CO2 If we are to do something about it and I know that we are taking a lot of action. Why not contribute to making it a so-called enlightened choice, by telling us about this in the adverts that I have pointed out before? We already make demands on advertising. We need to know about CO2 so why not expand it so that we can go even more towards a green conversion of the car park?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102507	Well, listen, if there's a story about it, we'll of course look at it too. And, as I mentioned myself, there are both energy labelling and other things where perhaps something more can be done to inform consumers about it. I have no problem with that. I should like to ask, on the other hand, whether the rapporteur is aware that since the fourth quarter of 2019 the average CO2 138 g CO2 km is just about 75 g?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102546	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102547	Yes, I am aware of that, and I am also aware that there are in fact different calculations of it. Indeed, I have some figures that say that in 2021 petrol-powered cars emitted 129 grams per year. kilometres and diesel-powered cars 182 grams per year. kilometers. That is also why, as we also talked to the Socialist rapporteur about just now, we must of course have some experts counting on it. We know that the calculations in this area are very controversial. Now the rapporteur asked me a question, and then I could not ask the question which I would actually have asked what kind of rudeness I have to ask the President to intervene (happiness).
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102625	That is the way it is when you have to make your time, and these are actually short remarks we are making. There doesn't have to be any questions. Is there any response to the brief remark made by Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen to Mr. Henning Hyllested?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102637	I would say that is how it is when the clever fools the less clever, and then I will end by saying that I did not get hurt when I fell off the chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102645	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102652	Thank you, President. Denmark has been inspired by France in many areas: food, culture, architecture, fashion, language, etc. Some strange things have been decided in recent years, including this motion for a resolution, which is based on something that France has decided. I think I can say straight away that the Danish People's Party does not support the resolution. I don't think that's the way to go at all. I also have the impression that this may have been written by some people who live in a city where you can roll down from the apartment, go to the local café, take the bike and then maybe then take the bus without problems, because there always comes a bus every five minutes, second minute, or you can go down to the metro where there are very many trains coming. It's not like that everywhere in Denmark. There are many places you need a car and where you can't survive without a car, where you have to drive to work, where you have to pick up the kids, where you can't just walk 8 km. Well, that doesn't make any sense. So I see this somewhat as a privilege-blind resolution from surely hearty metropolitan people, and I am not sure that we should go that way. I believe a lot in the market and I believe in technological solutions, and I actually believe that people want to do something for nature and the climate, and when the technological solutions are there, they choose them too. We see this in increasing numbers in the West. More and more people are choosing a more sustainable car. Some of the cars are not as sustainable as we want to make them. It costs a lot of CO2 which is why I think we should not go in and get involved in these car ads. In addition, the car ads are also wonderful to see I love watching car ads. They drive in these beautiful landscapes, and it's just some nice cars and sometimes also some very beautiful women. If we are now going to be so politically correct, it is all going to be boring. So thank you to Enhedslisten for suggesting it, but the Danish People's Party will very clearly reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102947	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment. Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518102949	I think the opposite is true, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, that those ads are horrible. And if I have to point that out, the vast majority of these advertisements are going on in the big cities when they're wandering around in their fucking excuses for modern cars. France has done this for a reason. They have realized that it doesn't work out with all the CO2 so they've done it for a reason, they haven't just done it to bother drivers. I would like to point out that this has been written, among other things. by me. I live in Esbjerg. I do not know whether you can call Esbjerg a big city in this regard; I do not actually think so. This is the country's fifth largest city in the sixth largest municipality, I think, but big city and big city, bob-bob. But what is it that the Danish People's Party imagines to do about this? Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen says we should let the market decide. Well, why shouldn't we nudge as it is in modern big city Danish? Why should we not try to push in the green direction by giving some factual information in the advertisements that are pouring in on us?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103058	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103059	Well, the Danish People's Party supports the green transition, and we also support the fact that citizens can have access to sustainable technological solutions. There the state and parliament must go hand in hand with the market and with technological developments, and this is already happening on a large scale now. After all, so many different sustainable cars are pouring out on the market at the moment, and people buy them on a large scale without these advertisements. I would just like to refer to Norway, which has a large fleet of private electric cars, and there have not been such advertisements as Enhedslisten proposes. So I actually don't think this is the right way to go about things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103159	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103200	But Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, that the advertisements we see today for cars are actually okay? In fact, there are requirements for fuel consumption and CO2 etc., I think they are hard to spot at the pace of those advertisements, and I bet that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen doesn't see that either. That is what we would also like to do in relation to, in other words, some information that fills something in such advertising.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103236	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103237	I simply believe that the rapporteur has too much faith in the power of advertising and too little confidence in the citizen. I am sure that the citizen can easily find a way to choose the car that he thinks is climate-friendly, without making it difficult to advertise. I have great confidence in the citizen and the citizen's choice. It's about the market, it's about technology, and then it's gonna work out; I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103305	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we have come to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103312	I can start by saying it as it is, so this is just one of the stupidest things I've ever read, and it's just to say, it's not saying so little. But we had a good laugh at our group meeting when I was going to introduce it to the group here yesterday. This is basically about wanting to indoctrinate, to govern, and to have some kind of nanny mentality with the Danes, and of course New Citizens cannot back that up. In New Citizens we believe that politicians should decide less and that Danes should decide much more for themselves, including more of their own money, and that of course also means that we believe that the Danes should have a much better chance of buying exactly the car they want and they need, because it can be very different, i.e. if you live in the cities, if you live in the countryside, if you are a family for children etc. There are a great many different things, and that is why we want to remove the registration tax and reduce fuel taxes to a minimum. For the Danes must have the opportunity to decide much more for themselves. So the fact that you believe that you can just go in and ban advertising for something, or, as the rapporteur says, you start to nudge in relation to this is simply a completely fundamental lack of confidence in the Danes, which we cannot in any way support, and I simply cannot imagine in my wildest imagination how a report can be made in this area, because none of the things that are contained in this motion for a resolution have ever been on the ground. So it's just to be completely honest about where New Citizens stand. Of course, we cannot support this proposal. It is foolish, it is indoctrination, and it is simply again harassment of Danish car owners, and in New Citizens we want a completely different way with more freedom for the Danes, more free elections and much smaller state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103512	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103514	I understand. It's New Citizen's ideology. And when New Citizens say that this is just as well the stupidest thing you've ever read, I see it as a pat on your shoulders because New Citizens are just professing this market fundamentalism, which is also going through here. I would like to ask: does it also mean that New Citizens believe that the ban we have on tobacco advertising and the like is foolish, that it should be lifted and that it should be possible to advertise full hammers in relation to getting people to smoke?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103548	So, first of all, it has been said earlier here from the platform: I do not think we can compare it here at all. This is some kind of climate agenda, and the other is something health-related. But I would like to be completely honest with the rapporteur and say, for example, in relation to the fact that cigarettes have to be hidden in the supermarket: which non-smokers have made a spontaneous purchase at the cashier's local supermarket? Should he have said: I think I'll just buy a pack of cigarettes; I've never smoked before, but now I'll just buy a pack of cigarettes because they're there? In other words, very foolish legislation has been made, including in the area of cigarettes, for example. And this, too, is that you keep raising the price. So, yes, lots of foolish things have been done, even in this area. There's no need to deploy any more of it in this other area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103626	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103627	The rapporteur said in his earlier speech that this was an indoctrination. Well, commercials in themselves are an expression of indoctrination. I do not know whether New Citizens would call advertising that in their pure form of real consumer information. Of course, some of that is true, but it was first and foremost created to sell something, in this case more cars. That is why, in our opinion, much information is lacking, among other things. on the climate impact of fossil cars, and that is what the proposal is about, that is to say to make it part of the advertising.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103703	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103706	Well, now there is the fundamental difference between Enhedslisten and New Citizens that New Citizens actually have confidence that the Danes can make informed choices themselves. So compared to the fact that you see an advertisement and maybe buy the car or maybe not, we say that it is up to the Danes themselves, where Enhedslisten wants the state to almost dictate which cars the Danes should buy. We do not support that part at all in the New Citizens' Party, and we will never do so. That is also why I am saying that this is simply one of the most foolish proposals I have ever read.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103736	Thank you. There are no further brief comments, and that means that we will move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518103745	Thank you. This is sometimes seen: when there has been a broad consensus in the Folketing to tackle a problem, there are some parties tempted to go into extremes, as well as claiming that they believe that something needs to be done about the problem than the rest of the parties that are already in the process of solving the problem. For example: We have seen in foreign policy that it took a few years, but then a broad consensus was established in the Danish Parliament that it was probably best that there were limits to how many people came to Denmark, and those parties that so wanted to mark themselves on immigration policy became increasingly skinny and crazy in their proposals on what should then be done beyond the sensible thing that was already done. And then there were debates about serving pork in kindergartens, where 90%. By the children would not eat it, or a jewelry law was passed that asylum seekers, when they came to Denmark, should be deprived of their earrings and their wedding rings etc., and that it should be sold before they could get cash assistance. All such increasingly ridiculous and skinny proposals came into play because there had been a broad consensus that we have to deal with this problem of foreigners, and now there has also been a broad consensus that we have to deal with climate problems in Denmark. All parties in the Folketing believe this, and there is a consensus that we should reduce emissions by 70%. towards 2030 and that after that we will have to go even further until we become a CO2 So what will parties like the Enhedslisten and the Free Greens and the Alternative do when there is agreement that the problem needs to be resolved? Well, then you come up with something like this, so we have to have a ban on cars that emit CO2 which you cannot advertise in Denmark. Now we have to do something about the green transition, and cars that emit three times as much CO2 What kind of bullshit is that, sir? Henning Hyllested? It doesn't batt anything, it's symbol politics, and it's just to profile the Enhedslisten. So there's a broad consensus in the Folketing that we have to solve this climate problem and that Denmark has to take the lead and inspire other countries. Why not just be glad that so much has been achieved, instead of deciding that we should have such proposals that we should have some very strange cars, which should therefore no longer be allowed to advertise in the newspapers? We don't quite know what these cars are. If there are still cars that emit so much CO2 you can still find some American car that emits so much CO2 then at least it should not be allowed to advertise in Denmark. So it's a waste of time, sir. Henning Hyllested. It is a waste of time and it does not do anything for the green transition, but of course it has something else to do: to advertise that Enhedslisten, if you find enough proposals, will a little more than all the responsible parties, who already want a great deal. We shall vote against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104058	The Danish language is nuanced. Sir. Henning Hyllested for a short remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104103	I would just like to correct a misunderstanding, namely that this is not such an attempt to go further, because we have now come some way along the way, and then Enhedslisten must come up with something. On the contrary, I would almost say. This is such a try. After all, we had a proposal in our climate plan, among other things. on the fact that one should actually stop selling fossil cars from 2025. I can see that in the European Union we are now saying 2035. But we had a proposal for 2025. So this is a, what to say, very toned-down proposal like going in that direction. So it's not an attempt to do that anymore. On the other hand, as I said, I will do Mr. Ole Birk Olesen is aware that the climate crisis is, of course, rushing out there, and we believe that something must be done quickly. Then it can be said that we have done a great deal and that we should be happy about that, as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says. Well, we're glad about that, too. We just still don't think it's good enough. And this is so a very small patch on our proposal that you should actually phase out the fossil cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104211	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104212	I just consulted the graphs. As the car sales are currently, we are in the direction that somewhere between the summer 2023 and winter 2024 more clean electric cars will be sold in Denmark than petrol cars, diesel cars, plug-in hybrid cars. And after that we end up by 2030 with almost no petrol and diesel cars being sold in Denmark, but only clean electric cars, as the graphs currently appear. So the development is going very well and it is going well because of the legislation that has been adopted in different places. It also goes well because of the Danes' adaptability. It also goes well because you have found out that in many ways it is actually very nice to drive an electric car. Then this proposal from the Enhedslisten comes like, I wouldn't even call it glaze. Well, if you're wearing a softice that you're wearing, it's just one of those little christmas pieces that Enhedslisten wants to put on the softice with this proposal. Well, nothing's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104315	Sir. Henning Hyllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104316	It is possible that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen has sat down and rained very, very much on this. I just want to say that it is true that more and more electric cars are being sold. That is quite right, and we have put pressure on the law to do so. It's still gone just too little. We can predict that by 2030 perhaps 2 million fossil-free cars are still driving around and that we are having difficulty achieving our 70-percent target, and that it is particularly the transport sector that is lagging behind in taking its share in meeting the target.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104355	Then we shall have answers from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104356	There will be a remnant of cars which have been sold before 2030 and which run after 2030. However, around 2030, no significant number of cars running on petrol or diesel will probably be sold. It'll be 100 percent electric cars by then. I do not know whether there are any people who should have dragged a horse trailer somewhere that still wants to preserve a petrol or diesel engine, but otherwise it will be electric cars all over the line that are being sold.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104426	It's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104429	I very much agree that developments are likely to automatically switch to electric cars. We can already see that the sale of hybrid cars is changing towards electric cars. So it's not even hybrid cars anymore that are being sold most of. But why ban? Well, the Liberal Alliance would ban fossil cars in Copenhagen. Why go the ban road when it now looks as if the market is pushing charges, of course, going that way? Why, then, ban? Why the ban route? Why punish people who then still have a fossil car by saying that they cannot drive into Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104500-2	But at some point it is said that the pollution that is coming is no longer necessary, and therefore there is no need to have it, and that is why we must stop it. That's how things go everywhere. If pollution is no longer necessary, then it should be stopped. Therefore, there is already a ban on vans with very old diesel engines entering the environmental zones of Aarhus and Copenhagen and elsewhere. I'd like to know if it's Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathiesen's view that the ban on old diesel cars being able to drive around inside Aarhus and in Copenhagen must be lifted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104534	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104535	I think it is quite clear that it is foolish that these restrictions have been imposed, because people will naturally change their cars. But when you have a tax level that makes it difficult to replace them, it is clear that it takes longer. You could remove the charges, because then people might be able to afford to change their cars faster. But I just have to get it right. People who still have a need after 2025 to drive in Copenhagen with fossil cars must then be punished. Is that the position of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104606	At some point, when technology is widespread and many people probably have cars that can run on power, either as hybrid cars or as clean electric cars, one will decide that then we no longer need to have particle pollution inside cities. You've already walked a long way. I am quite sure that there are extremely many Aarhusians who are happy that the oldest diesel cars cannot drive inside Aarhus city center and pollute people's lungs in there. And I think they'd be very sorry if Mr. Knox... Lars Boje Mathiesen has implemented a ban on old diesel cars driving in Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104638	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we will move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr von der Vring. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518104701	Thank you. I would like to thank you for the debate on this. It always calls for intense emotions, and I think that the debate has sometimes brought that up, and that is very good. Let me begin by saying that we have tabled this resolution because we have been inspired by France, which has done something similar to what we are proposing. This means that they per. 1 March 2022 has introduced requirements for car advertising and also has a ban on advertising for cars with very high CO2 which France has done for a reason, so it is probably not suggesting that we could do the same in Denmark. I do not think they are, nor does it exactly correspond to what Alex Ahrendtsen's view is of France. Of course, we have also been inspired by and compared with what we are actually doing in the tobacco sector. So that's like the background to this proposal. This extends the existing requirements for fuel consumption and CO 2 kilometres to be reported. An important part of the proposal is that it is urged that, where possible and so on, people go or cycle instead of taking the car. These are, of course, the short trips we are looking for, i.e. the trip to the grocery store or the bakery in the morning, or what it is like. Of course, we also call for much more public transport where possible and replace the car with it or take the car to the nearest station and then take the train and then take a bike from the station you reach as an example. We also call for a much greater use to be made of co-driving, and we do so, of course, because we believe that fossil cars are of course climate-damaging. They actually emit CO2 And even though they have become more effective over the years, because they are, they still emit CO2 CO2 I would say that we too are absolutely correct, as it has been noted, we have a ban on advertising for the most CO2 We have such a graduated scale, where we suggest that now it could be the 123 g CO2 kilometers, in 2025 we then set the requirements to 100 g, and in 2028 to 95 g. In this way, we are, of course, matching the EU's demands in this area, which says that petrol and diesel cars must emit 95 grams per annum. kilometers, but that's on average. Car manufacturers are able to pool their cars. If a car brand or a factory produces very polluting cars or a lot of CO2 2 It is such an artificial way of doing so • I would almost say that it is typical of the European Union to open a lot of cat hatches around it. After all, Danmarks Statistik has calculated for 2021 that petrol-powered cars emit 169 g CO 2 kilometres on average, and for diesel-powered cars it is about 142 g per year. kilometers. As the Minister for Transport also pointed out, the emissions of the transport sector amount to approx. 30% of CO 2 70% the discharge from the transport sector. The transport sector is thus one of the major culprits in this area, and we know that together with agriculture we have some problems. So, in our opinion, there is every reason to do something about CO2 On the Enhedslisten side, we suggested at the time that a ban on the sale of new fossil cars should simply be imposed from 2025. However, this comes up against the demands of the European Union, that is, the requirement of the internal market not to create barriers to trade and that, when cars are approved in the EU system, they can be sold everywhere as such, and that cannot be changed. Then we thought we'd have to try to do something else, so we're going in the same direction. That is why we decided, as I said, inspired by France, to make demands on advertising for cars, also because we think that it is a good deal of advertising that is not least in electronic media, but also in the printed media. That is why we came up with the issue of imposing requirements on advertising and also banning advertising for the most CO2 it is, of course, because we are convinced that car advertising will of course promote car sales; that is why they are being made. So one thing is to talk about the fact that the Danes can find out for themselves, yes, of course they can, but to claim that advertising does not affect our consumption pattern in relation to all goods, I would venture to claim that it is enough. That is why you make advertising, and that is why you make car advertising, that is to say to sell your product, to sell some more cars, to sell some more fossil cars, among other things. So, as I said, the proposal is to call for the use of other modes of transport and then ban the most polluting cars. I would also like to point out that we must also bear in mind that there is in fact a socio-economic gain and that there is a profit here. After all, the Economic Council came up with some calculations here for 2021, which said that carism is heavily under-taxed. And that is contrary to the myth we have heard so far, when it has previously been a calculation that said that carism was overtaxed by between 30 and 60%. But the Economic Council found out that it is not; on the contrary, it is undertaxed. There are some revenue of 0.99 øre, i.e. just barely 1 kr. per kilometers, but the external costs are DKK 1.20. per kilometers. These are, of course, the external costs in terms of congestion and CO2 When that number is suddenly, you can almost say the exchange or it's increased, it's because tribulation and accidents have increased accidents, as a result of having included the dark figures that exist. So I think it is necessary to draw attention to the fact that the myth that drivers are paying a terrible lot to society and to everything else that is then used for anything but investment in carism, is, first and foremost, no longer valid. The calculations made by the Economic Council show this so clearly. I must admit that, on the basis of the calculation made by the Economic Council, there has been a little panic, as I understand it, in the Ministry of Finance and in the Ministry of Transport, because there are therefore some other starting points in relation to the transport economic unit prices. That is why, as I understand it, a committee has been set up to look at how and how this is done. That is very welcome, because then we can say nothing more than that the Economic Council has at least got a little shredded up in some myths and some figures. But thank you for the debate. I understand that it is not because there are a lot of people who think they will support the proposal itself, but there are a lot of people who, with the exception of New Citizens, I think, and I also did not hear the Danish People's Party think it would be a good idea to make a report which might include some of the proposals, not least the part of the proposal which concerns promoting walking and cycling, public transport and co-driving, for example. So thank you for that. It is a slightly more positive reception than I might have thought in advance in this car-happy Things and in this car-happy country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518105619	There are brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518105622	Thank you so much. It's kind of funny to hear from Enhedslisten that because you see a car commercial, you buy a car. No, the Danes buy a car when they need a car, and it has a lot of Danes. Some also need more cars. So it's just to say again that when you live outside the major cities I know that Enhedslisten has a lot of voters in the big cities, so it's really hard to get by without a car. So I would really like to ask Enhedslisten: Why do you have so little confidence in the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518105702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518105703	Well, we don't have a little confidence in the Danes. We simply note that advertising is being made to sell a product, and so is car advertising, and at least I should not be told that it does not work. Of course it works. And that means, of course, that when a Dane is faced with having to buy a car, you are influenced by what you have seen on television advertising, or by what you have seen in the printed media. And there we think it would be reasonable to come in with some consumer information that, by the way, there are other modes of transport that you can use to promote them, and that there is then some information about CO2 emissions why it should be so terrible to inform the Danes, I cannot understand, and that has nothing to do with a big city problem versus an outskirts problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518105806	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518105807	Yes, it has. Because it is quite a lack of understanding that some people actually need a car. And I think that what Enhedslisten's rapporteur is saying is something weird, that is, when I go outside Christiansborg in a little while, and if I see an advertisement for a tractor, I feel a burning desire to suddenly buy a tractor, even if I do not need it. Why is it that Enhedslisten has so little confidence that the Danes can actually choose for themselves what they need, when they need it, and then buy what they think fits best into exactly their lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518105839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518105840	I believe that Mrs Mette Thiesen is the first person I have heard to say that advertising does not have a function and that it does not work. If that were the case, as Mrs Mette Thiesen says, there would be no company at all who would make a single advertisement if it did not have an effect. And to draw the debate down to say that if I see an advertisement for a tractor, I will buy a tractor, I will say: Ah, Mrs Mette Thiesen, that is too tacky. I think it is. Of course advertising works; that's why they're put in the world, that's why they're pouring in on us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518105912	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518105913	I was just thinking about the fact that car manufacturers must advertise that you have to take the bike, that it is something worse, that you have to say that cars are harmful, that it is advertising. But then I came to think of how Enhedslisten would feel if, in the majority of the Danish Parliament, we now decided that, in future, when Enhedslisten came with their election posters or campaigns, it should be said at the bottom that one should vote for a bourgeois party, because Enhedslisten's politics will, in fact, often be socially damaging both economically and in terms of freedom. So how would Enhedslisten feel if a Parliament ordered Enhedslisten to write it at the bottom of his election posters?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518105955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518105956	In that case, it would be a lie that we should write on our posters, and Mr. So Lars Boje Mathiesen does not get Enhedslistens to fill our election posters, which are also some kind of consumer information, with lies. For it is a lie, of course, if it were to be on our posters, that you might as well vote for a bourgeois party because Enhedslisten is such and such. So that would be false advertising, so to speak, and that is just as well not what we are talking about here in our proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110024	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110026	No, that would just be a message that Enhedslisten wouldn't like. Often the factual economic reality is not something that Enhedslisten cares much about or cares about when presenting it to them. But that is why the Danes must be informed about what is the factual reality, and that is what this is all about. So when Enhedslisten thinks that they have a justification for, because they think it is a good idea to impose on car advertising, that you should take the bus or the bike instead, then it is probably only fair that you impose the same conditions, that is, that if something is economically correct, it should also be put on Enhedslisten's posters.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110102	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110102-2	So let's get to the point of thinking. If anything should be said, there should be something like: Obs, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen of New Citizens believes that Enhedslisten's policy should be understood like this and such. That's what the poster would say. It's daddy out, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen is a market fundamentalist for the fingertips, and Enhedslisten is the opposite. That would be what it was supposed to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110127	Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110130	I went to the Danish primary school in the 1980s, and it was not even a very bad primary school, but it lived in the wake of the 1970s, where monkmarxism dominated Denmark and where all sorts of class theories and claims that man is a willless victim of society's institutions, norms, etc., flourished. There we were also told in teaching that advertising, like that, led us to believe at all that we needed things and so on. I didn't believe that at the time, and I don't believe that today. Unlike Mr. Henning Hylllested, I know that the reason why, for example, Peugeot advertises Peugeot's cars, is that they are afraid that those who need a car, instead of buying a Volkswagen. So it's to move consumption from one brand to another. So I don't think there are many advertisements from car manufacturers who have the ambition and believe that they can get people who didn't think they should spend $300,000. on a car, to suddenly think, because they have seen the ad in the newspaper, that now they need 300,000 kroner. On a car. It's the need that comes first.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110235	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110238	I guess it's kind of the same thing if a car factory advertises to compete or to steal customers from another car factory with a different car brand, because the factory is all about selling its product and selling as many cars as possible. It is the essence of advertising to do this, and that is what we want to try to go in and regulate. It is with regard to the thundering climate crisis that we are in that we are trying to say: should we not try to inform consumers that there may be other modes of transport • cycling, walking, public transport, co-driving etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110329	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110330	So there is just a huge difference between saying that the fact that there are advertisements for cars causes people to buy more cars that lead to more pollution and that is what has been Enhedslisten's claim in this debate and to say that the fact that Peugeot has the opportunity to advertise their latest model means that there are more who want to buy Peugeot instead of buying Volkswagen. It is not an additional consumption of cars. It is just a more enlightened consumption on the basis of the information one can gather from different places about which car best suits one's needs. People don't suddenly want to spend $300,000. on a car, but they'll learn more about which car to buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110404	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110405	Volkswagen will answer Peugeot again, because they will of course defend their market share and they will want to increase it. In other words, I believe that the total amount of advertising for one and the other car mark is of course helping to increase the sales of cars. I have no doubt about that for a moment, and that is what this proposal is, as it were, intended to have a dampening effect, so we are helping the transport sector to contribute a little less to the climate crisis, and that is, admitted, only a little less with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110439	Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110443	Thank you very much. I'm gonna stay right in this advertising trail. Because when advertising works so well, I'd like to hear Enhedslisten's opinion on whether a new car commercial inspires people to change an old car, i.e. a car that emits more CO 2 2
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110504	I think it certainly does. In other words, part of the content of car advertising is precisely to draw attention to all the new things that the new car can do in relation to the old cars, of course, and in this way it is made attractive in relation to the old cars. But it's still a purpose to sell some more cars. That's still the purpose of a commercial. It's not in itself to replace the car park. I don't think car manufacturers care more or less about that. But of course it is clear that on the production lines they have created some new cars that drive out the assembly line day after day, and they must of course have sold them, and that is fine, and you will of course sell them on all the new gadgets and whatever else you can come up with. I do not notice in car advertising that much time is spent explaining that this really has something to do with the climate beyond the demands that are actually already being made today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110607	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110607-2	I'm glad to hear that Enhedslisten admits that after all. The proposal also indicates that it is a good business for the state that people choose to go instead of taking the car. Has Enhedslisten remembered to take into account the 50 billion. kr. that comes in every year in the Treasury in the form of taxes? And what does the funding look like if we don't have it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110633	In fact, that is what I referred to. The Economic Council has actually sat down and counted on this, and they have counted on the latest figures from the transport economic units, as they say, and they therefore find that with the new figures there is a socio-economic deficit, i.e. that cars are under-taxed, contrary to what was thought in the past. And the claim of these so-called 50 billion. kr. So we do not stand up to the Economic Council, which is counting on 30 billion. kr. in revenue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518110709	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I have the honour to interrupt the sitting. We shall resume the sitting at 1 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130031	It is about 13 o'clock and that is why we are now starting Question Time. I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, will be answered in writing. 14 (S 908) to the Minister for Education and Research by Marie Bjerre (V) is deleted from the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130050	The first question is to the Foreign Minister of Mrs Krarup, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130054	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130111	Thank you. What will the government specifically do to ensure that Denmark does not directly or indirectly finance activities where the UN says there are credible accusations and information about torture and executions committed by the Ukrainian forces as described in the article from Reuters?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130127	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130129	Thank you and thank you to Mrs Krarup. The government attaches great importance to the respect of the laws of war by all parties in a conflict and to the accountability of those who violate it. I mean, we've all seen the pictures from, uh... Butja and Mariupol and elsewhere in Ukraine, and there is much to suggest that Russia's forces commit many and serious violations of the laws of war and deliberately wage war against the civilian population. That is why, at the United Nations in New York on 25 March, I helped launch the Danish-initiated UN group working to hold those responsible for the serious violations in Ukraine to account. Denmark has also helped to refer the situation in Ukraine to the International Criminal Court, the ICC. The European Court of Justice can prosecute individuals for the terrible crimes that all the evidence suggests are being committed in Ukraine. The Court of Justice may prosecute war crimes in Ukraine, whatever party may have committed them. The Government has also made an extraordinary financial contribution to the Court's investigation work in Ukraine. In the event that Ukrainian forces have committed war crimes, it must of course also be investigated so that those responsible can be held accountable. We in the government will under no circumstances be passive witnesses of serious crimes in Ukraine that we have seen committed by the Russian forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130254	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130256	It is creepy to hear about the crimes committed on Ukrainian soil right now, and most of them are probably committed by Russia, but we are not funding the Russian forces. We are helping to finance the Ukrainian forces, and that is why it should be something that we are particularly concerned about when we are told from the United Nations office in Ukraine that there is reliable information about torture, executions, rapes, the killing of civilians by Ukrainian forces, which we therefore support with weapons and money. And does that make us an accomplice? That is what I have been wondering about, and there are also some from the University of Copenhagen who have, and I noticed in an article in Berlingske on 11 May, where Professor Jon Heller and an assistant, Lena Trabucco, write that Danish decision-makers must do all they can to ensure that Danish weapons are not used to commit war crimes. If they become aware of such a use and yet continue with arms supplies, they can be held responsible under international criminal law. What I hear the Foreign Minister telling me is that you are interested in strengthening international criminal systems and monitoring, and I think that is very good. But it is a bit grotesque if it is the Foreign Minister himself who comes to the dock, and that is why I think we need a little protection against the fact that these weapons that have been sent and the money that has been sent to fund weapons used by Ukrainian soldiers are not actually being used for war crimes. Why don't you send people out on the ground to say stop? Why do we not have a lot of systems that we have when we send our own soldiers out, where we monitor and report on the ground? Why are we not trying to prevent it from being committed? Why is it only the criminal justice system that is involved? I can't quite understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130506	Thank you. Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130508	Thank you. It is just to make it clear once again: we have reported very clearly that any war criminals should be held accountable, and that message has been sent both to Kyiv and to Moscow and elsewhere, and that is important. But it must also be borne in mind that the situation in Ukraine is that a country, Russia, has illegally, including international law, attacked and tried to invade a neighbouring country and that the Ukrainians are defending themselves. It is clear that all parties to a war must respect the laws of war, and what we see, and what I have seen myself, is that the Russians have committed serious war crimes and hit civilians, and that must, of course, have a consequence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130548	Thank you. Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130549	But what I hear the Foreign Minister say is that we in Denmark are not doing anything specifically to prevent war crimes from being committed with Danish weapons and with weapons funded by Danish money, and that makes the Foreign Minister and this Parliament's members an accomplice. That means we can end up like that. That's actually what they write in this chronicle, you can say, that if you don't do absolutely everything to avoid war crimes, and you fund the weapons with which they are committed, then you're an accomplice. And that's why I need a plan from the Secretary of State for how to avoid it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130625	Thank you. Then it's the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130626	Now I think I will repeat this for the third time: we have sent out a very clear signal and made clear to both Kyiv and Moscow and elsewhere that war crimes are not tolerated, war crimes must be investigated and those responsible must, of course, be brought to justice. That is what Denmark, together with, I think, 48 other countries are working for together with the Criminal Court. We will continue to do so, including in relation to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130653	Mrs Krarup's last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130655	But that's very nice. That means that the Foreign Minister will do everything possible to put himself on the dock because the Foreign Minister has a responsibility to ensure that any war crimes are committed with Danish weapons in Ukraine. But the Foreign Minister will do nothing to prevent them from being committed. I don't think that's very good. I think it's immoral.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130719	What is immoral and also a direct attack on everything that we stand for in the democratic world, including that part of the world that upholds the UN and the UN Charter, is the brutal and unimaginable atrocities that Russia is making on Ukraine, the war they have started. We have seen nothing like it on European soil since the Second World War, and it must be stopped. Someone started the war, and it was Putin, and someone can end the war, and that's Putin, and his crimes must be stopped, and they must pull out their soldiers. That is the Danish clear position here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130749	The question is over. However, we will continue with questions to the Foreign Minister and continue with Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130756	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130758	Can the Minister state how much money Denmark has been sending to Ukraine since 2014, and can the Minister, in addition, indicate whether the government has an overview of how many of the funds have ended up in corruption, given that Ukraine is one of the most corrupt countries in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130818	It was a slightly different text than the one in my script, but the meaning I think was completely understandable. Here you go, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518130831	Thank you. I would just like to say that the question I have been told is this: how does the Foreign Minister feel about Ukraine being one of the most corrupt countries in Europe, and how does it relate to the funds that Denmark has sent to Ukraine? That is the question I have been asked. The fight against corruption has long been a key element in Danish support for Ukraine, i.e. also before the war. Therefore, Denmark is actively involved in this particular agenda. Denmark co-finances and implements on behalf of the EU Anti-Corruption Initiative, EUACI, with a budget of 170 million. kr. for the period 2020-2024. EUACI shall provide support to Ukraine's anti-corruption institutions, civil society and other stakeholders in the fight against corruption. Over the last few years Ukraine has supported, among other things, Ukraine. EUACI managed to build a significant anti-corruption infrastructure. During the war, of course, the country faces very special challenges. I think we all agree on that. However, it remains central to protect the anti-corruption partners and ensure their functioning. This will be a key task for EUACI, which, despite difficult conditions, continues to carry out a wide range of activities in Ukraine. At the same time, through EUACI, we will support the anti-corruption institutions in their efforts to prevent international humanitarian aid and also reconstruction aid being the subject of corruption.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131003	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131004	Thank you for your answer. It is a good thing that we are doing something to combat corruption in Ukraine, because Ukraine is a very corrupt country and has been doing so for many years, and unfortunately it does not seem that the many actions that have been initiated in Ukraine have a positive effect, at least corruption, according to Transparency International, increased from 2020 to 2021, so that Ukraine did not improve its corruption index, but on the other hand deteriorated it. Denmark is the least corrupt country in the world. Ukraine is the number 122 out of 180 countries when it comes to corruption, and that is of course extremely worrying when you consider how much money Denmark sends down there. We could finance a lot of health and much help for Danes who need it, for that money. And if, in reality, you get something quite different from what you had hoped for, because there is a risk that money will land in the pockets of corrupt oligarchs or in militant formation. We simply do not know, that is something that you do not know when it comes to Ukraine. And if you also know that the many things you have set in motion have unfortunately not had a positive effect, it is that you have to ask the Foreign Minister: is it really responsible to send money, which we do not know will end up in completely wrong pockets, when the same money could make a huge difference to the Danish population?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131157	So, first of all, as I mentioned, Denmark has been at the forefront of the fight against corruption in Ukraine to help the Ukrainians and the Ukrainian government, which has this high on their programme, to realise a situation in which they can combat corruption. I myself spoke to the Ukrainian Foreign Minister, Dmytro Kuleba, President Zelenskyi and also their Prime Minister about this. We shall continue to do so. I find it strange that Mrs Marie Krarup does not see the need to rebuild Ukraine after Russia's terrible aggression and destruction in Ukraine. I hope Mrs Krarup will take part in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131232	Mrs. Marie Krarup, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131234	I think there is so much reason to help Ukraine. I think that Ukraine is a victim of this war, and I think that we are making Ukraine even more a victim by failing to keep Ukraine firm on achieving the Minsk agreement, so that this terrible war had been avoided. We could also still play a positive role by trying to get our NATO partners to play a role in some negotiations, but we do not. On the other hand, we are throwing tax dollars in Ukraine without knowing what is happening to them. I think we should help, but I think we should make it more responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131309	Thank you. Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131311	I do not think I have any figures on how many times the international community offered President Putin a diplomatic, peaceful solution to the disagreements with Ukraine, putin chose the war, and what I hear Mrs Krarup stand here saying is that it is our fault that Putin chose the war. Only one person is responsible for that war in Ukraine, and that is President Putin. There's someone who can stop it better today than tomorrow, and that's President Putin. I hope that Mrs Maria Krarup agrees with that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131341	Mrs Marie Krarup for her last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131342	It is clear that a war can stop when one party stops, but Denmark has a great reason why we have not at any time tried to get Ukraine to comply with the Minsk II agreement, which consisted in granting a certain degree of autonomy to the Donba region. It would probably have been able to solve the problem which, unfortunately, has now become at the heart of this unhappy war. But that does not change the fact that it is irresponsible not to try to investigate what your money is being spent on. Are they being used for the purpose of rebuilding Ukraine, or are they going to go into some others' pockets? And when there has been no progress in recent years in the anti-corruption movement in Ukraine, there may not be much hope that the same means will work in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131424	Mrs Krarup, we shall now have the reply from the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131427	It is not true that we have not also tried, in Normadiet format, to find a solution to the issue raised by Mrs Marie Krarup in relation to Eastukraine, Donbas and so on. That is simply not correct. However, I think that what is quite provocative to me as Foreign Minister is what could sound like an excuse to start a terrible war of attack with all the destruction that we see in Ukraine. I've experienced it for myself. So, is Mrs Marie Krarup really defending the fact that Putin has started a war in Ukraine? Marie Krarup No, it was...).
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131459	The question is closed. Thank you to Mrs Krarup. We will continue with questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but now it is by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131508	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131510	Thank you, sir. President. What is the Foreign Minister's view that the Social Democratic political rapporteur, Rasmus Stoklund, has said to the Liberty Letter that there was some law in the way that the ballot paper in the referendum on the defence reservation could have sounded short and well: "Would you abolish the defence reservation?' and does the Minister agree with Professor of Administrative Law at the University of Southern Denmark, Frederik Waage, who believes that Rasmus Stoklund is wrong about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131542	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131544	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby for the question. The wording of the ballot slip reflects, as in previous referenda, the title of the legislative proposal on which we are due to vote on 1 June. The title of the bill is derived from the Ministry of Justice's statutory quality guide. The guide is that the title of the draft law should be covered for the main content of the draft law and at the same time as briefly as possible. Thus there is a certain room for manoeuvre for the choice of the title of a bill as long as the title tells what the bill is about. The referendum on 1 June is basically about Denmark being able to participate as something new in European cooperation on security and defence. That is the background to the wording of the ballot. As you know, Danish participation in the cooperation requires that we abolish the defence reserve, which is now also reflected in the wording of the ballot. There has been a lot of debate about the wording of the ballot. We have listened to the debate and now it is time for us to move forward and take a position on the real issue: whether Denmark should shoulder its responsibilities in the new security policy situation in Europe, or whether Denmark as the only country in the European Union should remain outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131657	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131658	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I do not think that Denmark is a country that has been in the hammock in the discussion that the Foreign Minister is embarking on, namely whether Denmark is actively participating in both defence and security policy cooperation. We have this both within the United Nations and within NATO and within the framework of the European Union, for example. the search for pirates in the Gulf of Aden. So there is a lot that can be taken into account in that discussion. The reason I have asked this question today is, of course, that we are standing quite a few days before a referendum. I also fully agree that the ballot papers are very likely to be printed. I also fully agree, as the Minister points out, that the government subsequently decided, after the first criticism of the wording, to change the wording of the text appearing on the ballot. But what puzzles me is that the ministers in the government represent one political party, namely the Social Democracy. Some of us have wondered a great deal about the fact that the new political rapporteur for the same party, in other words the Social Democratic Party, and that, as I said, is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund has said in the media that there is some law in the way of a referendum where you clearly ask: do you want to abolish the defence reservation? After all, there are some of us who have asked where this law comes from and what legal clauses stand in the way of a more correct wording of the question on the ballot slip. There's the fact that this law professor, Frederik Waage, says you can ask what kind of sources are behind this idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131902	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131903	I think that what we owe to the Danish people is a good and enlightened and factual debate on what we will have to decide on here on 1 June. You could say that Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby and myself look very differently on that question. But the question is, of course, whether Denmark should participate fully and fully in European cooperation in the field of security and defence by abolishing the EU defence reserve. That is the question for the Danes. I will look forward to that debate, and I have explained how to draw up legislative proposals and how to draw up a ballot paper on the basis of, among other things. the title of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131940	Hans Kristian Skibby, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518131941	That's probably where the roads part a little and hopefully in a good way. Anyway, what the Secretary of State is out in here is snitch talk. After all, a text has been chosen which contains a number of positive words • words such as participation, cooperation and security. This means that we will have a positive vote procedure. That is not fair, given that it has to be a hundred percent sober and diplomatic way of doing it. That is also why so many people have wondered why the Socialists have said that there is some law behind that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132015	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132017	Well, I'm listening very intensely to sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. It is certainly new to me and good, I think it is positive that we can work together on European defence and security, and that Denmark then, if you have to take it at face value, should not be outside the cooperation as the only one of the 27 EU countries. We will have the opportunity to change that in a referendum on 1 June. If we say yes to abolishing the defence reserve, we can join the other 26 EU countries in this important, important cooperation for European peace and security.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132050	Hans Kristian Skibby for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132050-2	Thank you. And I kind of agree that it is always good to be able to participate. However, I think that the Foreign Minister should, after all, also place his trust in the fact that for generations, even since the Second World War, we have had an incredibly good benefit and benefit from the diplomatic things that exist, including in relation to our security policy, in other words that we can carry out both UN missions and also be involved in NATO operations and all sorts of other things. We also have a large number of other places where Denmark is involved, for example in relation to the pirate hunt down at the Gulf of Aden. So the Minister should recognize that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132124	Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132127	I shall be the first to stand up and give my unreserved praise to Danish soldiers and others who have been deployed in the world to take care of our security in Denmark. Fortunately, I do not think we can disagree on that; on the contrary. That is why I think it is natural that, in the security policy situation we are facing in Europe, where Russia is trying to invade a sovereign, free country, Ukraine, where all the values we stand for are under attack and where Sweden and Finland are now applying to NATO as something historic, even in Denmark, whether it is right for us to participate fully and fully in European cooperation in the field of security and defence. I think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132201	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, and thank the Secretary of State. There are no more questions for the Secretary of State. We will continue with questions to the Minister for Justice, and the next question has been asked by Mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132212	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132213	Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Justice on his appointment. Does the Minister consider that, due to the situation of the lack of functionality of the IT systems, several hunting weapon and hunting accessories businessmen are experiencing very high turnover losses due to the abolition of the old IT system before the new IT system has become clear that measures can be taken to promote a registration system more quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132242	I think there was a single phrase in it. Thank you for the nice words to begin with, and thank you for the question. On Monday I was out in a middle Zealand forest meeting with the Hunting League early on Monday morning, because as the questioner is aware, it was on Monday that this year's buck hunt was shot. What I said to them, I would also like to say to the questioner today. First of all, of course, it is unsatisfactory that the weapons register still does not work optimally and that all hunters cannot go hunting this year because they are lying in the bunkers waiting for their case to be dealt with. The National Police have announced that it was the expectation when the new register was used that errors and shortcomings in the system could have been rectified within a few weeks, and I know that the National Police are working on high pressure with the supplier behind the new system to make the system fully operational as soon as possible and in parallel to it to reduce the processing time in what is called the Police Administrative Centre or the PAC. That centre has thus ensured that significant staff resources are allocated to the arms sector, as well as trying to optimise work processes in order to reduce the number of cases. Last week, I also asked for even more staff to be allocated to the National Police, and on this basis the National Police have provided another 10 staff to assist in the handling of arms cases. The National Police also provide additional resources for the work of completing the weapons register with the supplier, and it is my clear expectation that the National Police will do their utmost to ensure that the Police Administrative Centre has as soon as possible established a healthy operation for the processing of applications, so that hunters and hunting accessories and other applicants are not bothered by long processing times. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132444	Sir. Thomas Danielsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132445	Thank you. In itself, it is crazy that an IT system should be abolished on 17 January before an alternative system is available. This, of course, has put many gun users in gunmen's associations and among hunters in a very inappropriate situation, but it has enormous consequences for businessmen who have experienced a fall in turnover of 70%. That is why the matter is quite serious, in addition to the fact that someone is being hit on their hobby and lifestyle. July. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132553	I do not know the specific article from My Hunting Magazine, nor have I heard a date like 1 July before. But what is on the bottom line is that there are thousands of Danes who are missing their weapons license. They're in a pile of cases. What I am told is that the IT system will be in place during the summer, but that does not solve the problem, because there will still be a lot of people in the processing piles who will have to be worked out, and it will take several months after that before we are in place with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132625	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132628	If the supplier, Netcompany, has an agreement that the IT system will not be delivered until 1 July, i.e. the system shut down on 17 January, and we have since been told that every effort was made to make it work, then the Minister has been misinformed. It is not an information that the Minister has received that this IT system will not actually be delivered until 1 July?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132658	I can at least say that I would very much like to follow up on what is the reason why you can read such an article in a hunting magazine. In other words, what I have been informed is that when the new register was used, the police expected that errors and shortcomings in the system could have been corrected within a few weeks. It was such an expectation that did not end up being a reality, but that was what was expected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132719	Sir. Thomas Danielsen, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132721	In any case, we are talking about a situation in which the public authorities are responsible for the very sharp fall in turnover of businessmen. We are talking about business that has gone up to 90%. into circulation because all accompanying equipment, etc. You don't buy either. Can the Minister see any possibility of compensation for those traders who have gone so badly into circulation because of decisions, inappropriate decisions for which the Minister of Justice is ultimately responsible?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132757	Well, it's an EU directive from 2017 and as Denmark has been given a couple of postponements to implement in Denmark. But it is legislation that is bound in Denmark, so I find it difficult to see that my predecessor could do anything other than live up to that legislation. I mean, we can't have a Justice Minister running a red light like that. I am fully aware that for some of the shops that have huge amounts of capital tied up in a warehouse, something that they cannot hand over because people do not have the authorisation in place, it is of course very frustrating and also unfair. We're not pussing with a compensation scheme now. What we're working hard on is getting the bunkers down and making sure we get back to a normal state where you can get your permission within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132834	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Thomas Danielsen, and thank you to the Attorney General. We move on to the next question put to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly by Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132851	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132854	Why does the Minister think that the public should decide what the elderly should have for dinner?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132903	I don't think so. I don't think so. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132910	Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518132913	That was a nice short answer, but then we can start diving into what this is all about. When the Prime Minister's New Year's speech was heard, it was as if she had been inspired by the Left. The term 'free choice' was at least very, very many times, and as a Left Member one can be nothing but happy about that. The problem is, of course, that there are currently negotiations in the area of the elderly, and in relation to that there are headlines that say: the elderly are being bombed 20 years ago; free elections are being taken from the elderly. That is why I have to stand here and ask. Today, it is the case that elderly people have absolutely free choice between public and private providers of home care and free choice of nursing homes. Should they also have it in the future, if it is up to the Minister, in other words, completely free choice between the public and the private?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133010	Thank you. I thought that we were out in something like a little political teasing, which I think is a very good example of why there are a number of Danes looking at politics and thinking: What is that? That is when I have to come here and answer a question as to why I think the public should decide what the elderly should have for dinner. It is, as I can now understand, out of thin air, and it is from a desire to discuss that the Socialists should not be in favour of the free choice of suppliers in home care, even if it is something we are in favour of and have been aiming for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133047	Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133049	After all, the Minister did not answer my question at all. After all, I am not the only one who believes that free elections are under pressure. That's what the Elders Case thinks, that's what Danish Industry thinks. A great many people are concerned about the negotiations that are currently under way. So will the elderly also have a completely free choice between public and private suppliers in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133113	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133115	However, it is strange that we should have such a debate on false grounds. The welfare agreements are about releasing municipalities from central legislation, for them to also release their care of the elderly and their employees in relation to the framework of the older and municipal rules, and for us to give as much freedom as possible to experiment there. This was the case in the previous trade agreements, and that is what the government wants to continue in relation to the welfare agreements, which is what is being negotiated now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133140	Last question. Here you go, Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133142	I ask again because the Minister was very good at giving a very, very short answer. Today, elderly people have a completely free choice between public and private providers of home care and free choice of nursing homes. Should they continue to have it in the future? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133159	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133200	But we have said this all the way, namely that it is important for us that there is a free choice. Furthermore, we would like there to be a greater room for self-determination for the individual elderly than the logo on the shirt of the social and health worker or assistant who comes in through the door, and this is, of course, a greater discussion and discussion which is not about abolishing free elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133219	Thank you. The question is closed. Thank you to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. We move on to questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly, and now it is from Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133228	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133232	Thank you. How does the Minister feel that the increase in economic inequality and poverty caused by government policy affect people on the edge of society?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133240	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133241	Thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to reject the assertion contained in the question that there should have been more poverty due to government policy. I do not think it can be done that way at all. There are many more facets to poverty than just differences in income. Moreover, I think it is paradoxical that this claim should come from the chairman of a party which does not believe that there is poverty in Denmark. Denmark is one of the most equal countries in the world. We have free and equal access to education and healthcare for everyone. We have a finely masked social safety net that can grab you if life plays an unfortunate card on the hand. This is the welfare society that my party, the Social Democratic Party, has been in the forefront of building for 150 years. The government has produced a number of strong results for our welfare societies, which have improved conditions for many people. It may not be all measures that reduce the income difference measured in the statistics of the Gini coefficient, but they do support equality in living conditions, for example. in relation to education and health. The agreement on the children First, a new homeless reform, free dental treatment for those at risk, minimum standards, entitlement to an early pension, a lower ceiling on the number of pupils in the small classes, just to mention a few results. It is important to join when talking about inequality and living conditions in Denmark. It also shows that Gini is too narrow a target to measure inequality in a society. And when you tackle an inequality problem, for example. inequality in health, by increasing tobacco taxes, yes, then it can cost economic inequality. The rising prices represent a separate challenge, and perhaps especially for those who the questioner says are on the edge of society. Here, the government, together with the Danish Parliament's parties, has agreed on additional help through the heat check, a targeted action so that inflation does not deteriorate unnecessarily. Then, of course, there are existing schemes such as the heating supplement for pensioners, aid for the exceptionally high costs of cash benefits recipients. In other words, we are holding hands under the weakest in society while maintaining a balanced fiscal policy. But I have to say, as the Prime Minister also did to the questioner last week, that we are primarily concerned with getting people into work. It is the best protection against poverty and deprivation. We can then also see that things have gone very well in recent years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133444	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133445	Thank you. It is not, in fact, my assertions with which the Minister has to deal with whether or not the Minister agrees. It's the Ministry of Finance's calculations. The Ministry of Finance's calculations show that government policy has made all income groups in Denmark poorer except the second richest Danes, i.e. those in the Whiskey Belt. And the Ministry of Finance's statistics show that this has increased inequality. And those who have the smallest incomes have become even poorer as a result of government policy. This follows on from the fact that for years the Social Democratic Party, including the Minister, both before the Minister became Minister and after the Minister has become Minister, has been talking about the fact that child poverty is a major problem, that poverty is a major problem in Denmark and that this was one of the reasons why we had to get rid of the bourgeois government, in other words to end poverty. And then there has been an increase in the poverty of those who have small incomes. They have less money at their disposal. I'm not necessarily talking about the cashier in Netto. I am talking about some of the people for whom the Minister in particular is responsible, in other words socially vulnerable citizens in Denmark, who have plenty to contend with in their daily lives. They are experiencing increased poverty as a result of government policy, according to the Ministry of Finance. That's not my claim. I have just two questions for the Minister. One is: How does it affect the socially disadvantaged in Denmark that they have become poorer as a result of government policy? Is it the Minister's claim that it does not matter that they have become poorer? And then there's the next question. I could understand that this is also about increased tobacco taxes. So, does the Minister seriously believe that if you are socially exposed, you may be a drug addict, you are homeless, you have psychological challenges, the most important thing is that you get sucked and get a financial penalty so you can stop smoking so you can just get your act together? Is this how it should be understood, that the government's social policy is that we should just punish the smokers, and then we have really done something good for the socially vulnerable in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133630	There are, of course, many exciting gripes in the questioner's question, where things are turned upside down, but in reality I think that what remains most central is that the questioner himself has revealed that this discussion about how best to help those who are on the edge of our society, the most vulnerable, the most vulnerable, cannot be reduced to a single target, whether it is the Gini coefficient or what it is, for example. a single number. We are talking about the homeless, the vulnerable, the mentally ill drug addict, and then it has a huge impact that this government has in fact reached a very large agreement in the autumn, which reschedules the entire homeless effort; which invests over 1 billion. kr. In this context, it is important to ensure that housing can reach the target group and ensure proper social action.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133708	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133709	I am sure that the Minister and the government have done some good things for the socially vulnerable. That is just not what we are discussing here today. What we are discussing is how it affects socially vulnerable people, whom the Minister is passionate about and responsible for the government's policy having reduced their disposable income and made them poorer. Has it made their lives better, that they have become poorer, have it made it worse, or does it whistling matter that they have become poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133730	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133731	However, I have to repeat what I said before, namely that we cannot reduce the discussion about inequality and about living conditions and deprivation to a single amount and to a benefit discussion, if that is what the questioner from the Liberal Alliance is referring to. This is about quite a lot of other things. That is why it means something, for example. Make an agreement about the children First we make sure that we help the most vulnerable children in the past so that they do not end up as vulnerable grow at the bottom of society; that we make an ambitious homeless deal where we are actually willing to invest in that there are housing that is affordable, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133803	Thank you. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh for his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133804	Now I read aloud from a press release when the present government came to: After four years of bourgeois governments, where child poverty has risen significantly, we need to reverse the trend. You've made things worse. Those you claimed to be in poverty have less available to themselves, according to the Minister of Finance. And I agree that that is not the only thing that matters. It's something you've been focusing on. But I'm just asking the Minister for an answer. I know that the Minister is able to answer for the third time, but I will try anyway and see if the Minister can reply. Is it important for socially vulnerable people that, as a result of government policy, they have less money in their daily lives, that they experience increased poverty, or does it not matter that the government has made them poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133842	Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133843	But again, I think that the question shows that it cannot be discussed here in such an abstract theoretical vacuum. Because we can look at the number of children who have parents on cash benefits outside the labour market. These are some of the children we know are deprived of in Denmark today; I acknowledge that, and I am actually a little in doubt whether the Liberal Alliance even recognises that there are children in Denmark who suffer deprivation. And now I am not allowed to ask questions, but we have shown one more round, and it may well be that the rapporteur will deal with that. We can see that the number of children with parents on cash benefits has fallen by almost 50%. in just five years, and by a third, if I'm not wrong since we got there. That is something that means quite a lot to specific children.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133920	Thank you. The question is over. But we will continue with questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly, and that has continued with Mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133926	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133928	The question is: how will the Minister address the challenges of increasing poverty among socially disadvantaged people as a result of government economic policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518133937	Thank you for the question. As I said before, I do not accept the premise of the question. Poverty and inequality are more than just income differences. I would therefore like to start by repeating that, for the government, the best way out of poverty is to get a job, and that is why the figures I referred to in the last round of our debate on the previous issue are not insignificant. It must, of course, be an inclusive labour market where there is room for the most socially vulnerable citizens to receive the necessary support at the same time. That is why I am also pleased that the government, together with, among others, The Liberal Alliance has extended the social card scheme for another two years. This means that very vulnerable people can benefit from a free card also in 2023 and 2024. After all, we can see that the evaluations show that the scheme makes a difference in the lives of each very vulnerable citizen and benefits them. Having said that, however, and thank you for your cooperation in this area, we have also dealt with social issues in other areas. We have taken a historic step in the agreement on the Children First, which strengthens the area by 750 million. kr. lasting so that we can ensure that fewer exposed children end up as vulnerable adults at the bottom of our society. We have reached an agreement on a significant restructuring of the homeless effort, as I mentioned earlier, with over 4 000 low-cost housing for the target population who today cannot get the right social assistance because they do not have access to a housing that can become a home. We have supported this with various agreements. We are negotiating a new service system. And then all the things that we have done to ensure greater equality in our health and education systems and to ensure an approach from, for example, the United Kingdom. Unskilled to trained, but also in connection with the end of working life with Arnepensionen. It is all in order to ensure that there is equal opportunities in our country, and it is all something that greatly benefits the people who have the least. We are doing the same right now in the negotiations on helping those who have the most difficulty in getting the ends to meet because of the rising costs in society. Those negotiations are going on right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134139	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134140	Let me start by signing by expressing my own thanks for the cooperation on the social card. The Minister knows this is an area that I too am passionate about. By the way, it was something that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen helped bring into the Folketing. Actually, I was thinking about sir. Joachim B. Olsen already before, the Minister mentioned the Social Free Card, because the Minister actually sounded like it might as well have been Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, who said where the Minister is standing, and then it could have been the Minister for Social Affairs who stood here and said that the bourgeois government has reduced benefits to those outside the labour market, to which Mr. Joachim B. Olsen would say: Well, that is not what is important; what is important is that we have moved people from unemployment to work, and that is the greatest gift in life and the best protection against poverty. So it is exactly as the Minister is saying now, and I will give both the Minister and Mr Delors. Joachim B. Olsen is right about that. But you just have to look at it historically, because when the blues had power and we lowered the benefits in order to give a greater incentive to get to work, the argument from the current Minister for Social Affairs and all the Minister's colleagues was that it created poverty to reduce benefits and that it was economic poverty that was a problem. I can only understand the fact that if the bourgeois lowers benefits, so that the citizen has less money in his daily life, it is poverty and a problem, but if the reds increase taxes and taxes to create poverty accordingly, it does not matter, because there are some more people who have come into work. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134256	Now you have to be careful to be such a very ultimate in your conclusions when you speak under ministerial responsibility, but I do not think I have ever been compared one to one with my good colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ole Birk Olesen. One time must be the first for everything, and then this was. I therefore have a great deal of respect for the cooperation we have had with the Liberal Alliance, as well as other social policy measures. The children First is a very good example of a place where we have met ideologically, because the Liberal Alliance insists that the children exist in its own right. We believe in the same from the government. And I will answer the other question when I have to say something again on behalf of the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134335	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134336	We look forward to it. And I still think it is relevant to get an answer as to whether the minister thinks that the minister was wrong when criticising the former Blue Government for reducing the benefits, or whether it is just about how to make people poor, that if you do it with taxes, it is quite okay. I miss the answer to that. And in addition to that, we can see that those who have the least in Denmark now have even less because of government policy. That's what the Treasury says. Is this really something that the government and the minister will do something about, so increase their disposable income? Or isn't that something you want to do about?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134407-2	First of all, in response to the previous question, which the questioner was so kind as to repeat or at least to continue now, I would like to say that this shows again why we cannot focus on one figure, that is to say one element, because there is also a difference in what kind of policy we are pursuing. Do you think that lower benefits in themselves will get people into employment, or do you actually think that we have a responsibility to pursue a policy in which, for example, as this government has done, we ensure that unskilled people or those with outdated training who need training to get in and make a difference in our labour market, for themselves and for society, can take an education on increased unemployment benefits? We have taken responsibility for this, just as one example, which is why we cannot isolate it for this kind of discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134449	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134450	This is basically the same as before: does the Minister believe that it was wrong to criticise the blues for creating poverty through lower benefits? And if it was not wrong, why is it right to create poverty through higher taxes? These are the figures of the Ministry of Finance to which I refer. You can offer all sorts of punks, but it would be nice if an answer were given to the question on the sixth and last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134510	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134512	There is, however, a huge difference in whether one believes that the answer is to provide low benefits and then people get into employment, or whether one will actually pursue an active policy in which investing in training increases vocational training and ensures the possibility of training on increased daily allowances and one by taking joint social responsibility to ensure equal opportunities helps to support people getting into employment and all the other examples we have been through here, on how we are actually pursuing a policy that promises the most socially vulnerable. And then we have not taken the argument about who wins the most, if we can get something done about the major public diseases such as cancer and color in addition to tobacco consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134547	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. The question is closed. We will continue with questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly, but now it is from Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134553	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134556	Thank you for the floor, President. Can the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly guarantee that the agreement •Children First • will be fully negotiated and implemented before the Danes go to the polls again?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134607	Thank you for the question. First of all, I must begin by expressing my great respect for the Constitution, which states that it is the Prime Minister who issues elections. So when we go to the ballot boxes is not my decision. I have great respect for that. But let me just make it very clear that I am extremely proud of the broad agreement on the children First and the new law of the child with stronger rights for the children, which we have agreed together, fortunately together with quite a lot of other colleagues here in the Folketing. It is true that there are parts of the agreement that have not been negotiated, because we have agreed that we should not do so, for example. the reform of the foster family, to which preparatory work is under way, the discussions on possible new training in the field and post-protection. After all, this is something that we, as part of the agreement, have agreed on in the years to come. The funding is there; everything is clear. That is why it cannot really be a surprise to the rapporteur that those things are in the timetable we have agreed. Then I would also say that when the Barnet Law comes into force, 4 months later than we had actually proposed, it was because there was a desire from the stakeholders in the field and indeed also from the rapporteurs about it, in relation to making sure that when we make such a large and basic new law it is a new main law in the whole area of vulnerable children, then there should be no doubt that we could secure a proper implementation process. So the timetable that we have agreed together will last. I cannot, of course, stand here and reveal when parliamentary elections will be held, because I simply do not know. I just can't. So that part of the question must be unanswered, but our joint agreement on the children first follows the plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134748	That is a pity, because I think many people would like to have that date, but we have to wait for it. Here you go, Mrs. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134753	I think I should get to the Minister for Social Affairs afterwards and see when that date will come, because it could be good to be prepared at least. I also fully agree with the Minister that it is a good deal that has been made. After all, we have had a lot to say about the text of the agreement that came a year ago, and the Left has been very quick to believe that even that part about preventive work, with family houses and so on, was very, very important. I also think it is unfortunately specific to foster families that it has been pushed so far into the future, because it is actually an area that really needs a special effort. I agree with the Minister that it has to be pushed, because we on the Left also had many questions about this process and the draft agreement versus the draft law, and we also have many questions about the legislation that is already there, because we can also see that there are problems out there in the real world. In the real world one is also concerned that this agreement will not come into being, because they can also count forward in time and figure out that if there is an election in September or October, this work that has been done risks this work, which these professionals and organisations have fought for and worked for and has already begun to implement, to fall, and that would be a real shame. I also find it a pity that it was three years ago now that the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the children, promised in his New Year speech that something would be done in this area. I would also just like to say that the statements that were made in connection with the New Year's speech gave some of these vulnerable, vulnerable families a horror, and they also need peace and quiet; they also need stability; they also need to know that this agreement is coming out and being implemented, in particular, by the Left, at least, the preventive part.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518134941	I cannot say much more than that, of course, I am extremely pleased that it was so broad an agreement that we ended up having made, because it means a great deal, and it does not mean a great deal to those children who are given strengthened rights, that they should not have any doubts as to whether those rights will be rolled back in case there is another majority. And then there is little more to say than that it was a very big deal, 2 billion. kr. over the first four years, 750 million. kr. to a lasting lifting of the area. There are a great many elements, everything is very good, and so it follows the timetable that we have jointly set. So I can't answer so much other than that it's quite as we agreed it should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135019	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135020	The problem is that we have pushed too many tasks ahead of us now. Now we also saw the welfare law, which the government has also been out to promise was something one would get through, but it also fell to the ground. Then we have the whole reform of the disability area, and it was also pushed ahead of us, and we are still waiting for the evaluation of the specialized social area, which has been on its way for a very long time. At the end of the day, we are simply faced with a process in which we either have to spend the whole summer holiday, I am happy to do so, but rather processually, and it must also take time to implement things when we do not, and it smells like a break of promise on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135055	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135058	So this agreement is going exactly according to the plan we've agreed on, so it's kind of weird to have to be critical of it. When the parliamentary term was due to expire, the rapporteur was well known, and this also applies to the timetable on which we agreed, and the political agreement has been known. So it's a little weird. So, of course, there are some things that have been extended once the process has been extended, and I am happy to go along with that, but with regard to the specific case we are following our common timetable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135134	Thank you. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135135	If elections take place in September or October, we will find ourselves in a situation where we have not got anything through in the two major areas under the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is both the handicap area and it is our vulnerable, vulnerable children and young people, that is to say the housing area. That is a problem, and especially because the Prime Minister of the country promised it three years ago, at least in relation to the location area. So you can turn and turn what you want, and you can make all sorts of excuses, but at the end of the day it is a problem because you have probably promised a little too much on the part of the government, that is, more than you could keep.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135209	Thank you. Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135210	Now it is starting to be just as funny enough, I think, if we are to say that a government can only work for the first three years of a four-year parliamentary term. If, like, it is about to be the new normal, that is, when a government changes, what has been achieved over the first three years does not count, and that has no value, then we should of course switch to three-year parliamentary term. So I think we should stick to the fact that it is with a very open mind that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party have reached an agreement with the timetable that is now in place. I don't see why it should be shifted. It is clear that if the elections are to take place while we are in the middle of the legislative process, the new Parliament must resume the legislative process, but there is no indication that this will be something that will disappear for the children at risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135245	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen and thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly. There are no more questions at this stage. We continue with questions to the Minister for Health, and now it is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135309	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135311	Thank you. Why does the Minister not consider it urgent to find a solution to the end of the year's temporary supplementary allowance for the Sclerosis Hospitals?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135325	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135327	Thank you very much for that question. Sclerosis is a disease that affects many people, and it is of course a disease that is often intrusive in the everyday lives of the individual and that can have a great impact on the quality of life of the individual, and it is also subject to uncertainty, because there are also doubts and fears as to what the future holds. Because it is not a disease for which one can be cured, but one can get help to live with it. That is why we are concerned about continuing to work to create the best possible efforts for people with sclerosis, and in addition to the health care interventions in our regions and municipalities, the two sclerosis hospitals play a role in Haslev and the Ry in offering specialised rehabilitation and treatment courses to people with sclerosis. I myself have visited the hospital in Haslev and had many conversations with people with sclerosis and also with the Multiple Sclerosis Association, and they do an excellent job. The hospital gets 77.7 million in what is called the free choice framework. kr. Every year, and then, since 2014 of successive negotiations and conciliations, some temporary appropriations of around 10 million have been made, which is now up to 11.3 million. kr. In 2014 it started with that, in 2017, the then government made a 1-year grant. It became a 2-year grant, which then became a 1-year grant in 2018, and we have in this government, together with the Danish Parliament in the SSA reserve, made a 2-year grant, and this 2-year grant is then due to expire unless we find funds for it in the forthcoming Finance Act. And whether we do so depends on whether there is a political will to prioritise that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135517	Here you go to Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135523	After all, there are two unique hospitals in Denmark which are highly specialised in sclerosis, and by the end of the year, as the Minister himself said, they are losing 11.3 million. kr., and already today more than 1,000 patients are on the waiting list to get to the two hospitals. After all, 1,000 people are very many, and while we are standing here talking, the Sclerosis Hospitals are examining what kind of highly specialised staff they will have to lay off because they do not know if they will get 11.3 million again. kr., or whether it ends at the end of the year. And it doesn't make any sense to start dismissing staff now if it's actually you get these 11.3 million. kr. But they have to do something so that the budget does not go down. Then the Minister cannot understand why it is urgent for the Sclerosis Hospitals to know whether they will receive the 11.3 million. kr. Because they will have to take into account what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135640	Yes, as I mentioned, I have both recognition for their work, but of course I also understand that there is a great need to replace it, that for many years now, including under various governments, we have had the temporary appropriations which I mentioned, i.e. 1-year-olds, 2-year-olds, 3-year-olds, 4-year-olds, and every time we approach a cliff, as we call it here at Christiansborg, that is to say, such a deadline for it, ask: OK, do we get these appropriations again? And how should we react to that? I have a huge understanding of this, and it is not a new problem, nor is it exclusively for the Sclerosis Hospitals. But of course I understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135715	Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135716	Well, this is not a new problem, and the Minister could have solved this by including it in last year's Finance Act. This has not happened, so here we are, and they do not know what they have to do with it. Right now, a health agreement is also being negotiated and so on, and in the Left we are looking for this to be a fixed appropriation. So can't the minister give some hope to these sclerosis hospitals so they won't have to get off specialized staff now? Because it doesn't make any sense if they're about to hire them again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135749	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135751	Now it is said that the Left is going for this to be a permanent grant. That was not the case when you had government responsibility. For then it was only temporary appropriations all the time, which then ran out and which were then extended, and we did so when we took over. We extended it, because it also ran out on the part of the previous government. So it was not a priority because you were responsible for it yourself. We are debating health reform and I can confirm that this is one of the elements we are looking at. But I cannot reveal any more from those negotiations out of respect for the fact that we must try to reach an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135818	Anne Honoré Østergaard's final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135821	So we're there. Well, I guess the minister can understand that the Sclerosis Hospitals have a problem. Can the Minister not make some kind of hope, something that means that they will not have to dismiss highly specialised staff now, or does the Minister just think that they should continue to dismiss highly specialised staff? Or what can the Minister give of hope? Because they're starting those redundancies now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135851	What I think would also be wise is to take a step back and read the documents adopted by the Parliamentary Health Committee and a report has been submitted by a majority of the Parliamentary Health Committee, which, and I quote, recognises the importance of the role of sclerosis hospitals in the overall health care system and the uncertainty caused by a lack of clarification of future funds for staff and patients. However, it is also noted that a temporary additional allocation from 2023 onwards will depend on the political priorities of the forthcoming negotiations on the Finance Act. So a majority of the parties have concluded it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135920	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to Anne Honoré Østergaard. We go further, but questions to the Minister for Health remain, and now they are left by Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135930	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135932	Thank you for that, President. The question is as follows: Why will the Minister not give birthrights free choice, as recommended by the Parents and Birth Association?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518135944	Thank you very much for that question. As the questioner knows, we have just reached an agreement with a number of parties, not the Left Party, but I see that the Left also agreed with part of the agreement, and I am, of course, very, very pleased with the fact that we really need to strengthen the field of birth, and that is also what we need. Here we are asked about Parents and Birth Policy in this area, and the organization's website states precisely and quite correctly that you want a right to choose between birth at home, in a free-standing midwifeial maternity clinic or in the hospital. So, what's it look like today? But today everyone has the right to choose to give birth at home or to give birth in a hospital. In addition, the Capital Region offers births in midwife-led maternity clinics attached to the hospital, and the regions work in various ways with the establishment of homely, quiet and sensual maternity rooms. So it is the case that the regions also have the opportunity to conclude agreements and organise themselves with private food clinics. You have, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. There is one regionally funded private food clinic, which is part of the overall food supply to the citizens of that region. In addition, the Region of Southern Denmark plans to establish two midwife-led maternity clinics, one in Kolding and one in Odense, and one becomes so private, and the other becomes public. So it is possible to do so today, so it does not require any change of law to create spaces for it. In this way, I think it can be concluded that those who are born have options, both in relation to home birth and, of course, also in relation to the public food supply, but also, to the extent that there is, in relation to making use of midwife-led maternity clinics, as is written on the website there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140134	Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140135	Thank you for the floor. Now I want to start by doing something that I do not do very often, because I would like to praise the Minister for Health for the agreement that has been reached in the field of birth. Because it was also a lot of the same things that were in the Left's proposal, so we are in complete agreement with that, which is just what is lacking with free choice. Now I hear the Minister say that there are also some places around the country and you are setting it up, and that is also very good. I think we have also pressed for that in here, at least on the Left side, to do so. It should just be part of the deal. Now the Minister himself mentioned the maternity clinic in the Region of Zealand, Roskilde Federal Clinic, which is one of the free-standing midwife-led clinics, and we had a visit to the Health Committee. I know the Minister does not attend those meetings, but I assume the Minister knows this very well. These are precisely the advantages outlined here, which were also presented at this meeting of experts. In other words, the benefits are fewer problems for both mother and child, better satisfaction, better nursing periods too. These are also some of the things we have discussed very much in connection with the meetings we have had before you arrived at an agreement in connection with the Finance Act. Then there is also the financial gain. I can also see that the government has not had the opportunity to do everything we would have liked from the Danish Parliament in the field of birth. It was also said from the start that there was no money for that. But imagine if you actually looked a little out of the box and it wasn't just about finding more funds, but it was also about finding solutions that could give you a win. Because it is actually cheaper to be able to send them to such a free-standing midwife clinic, and then you can give priority to those women who are born, who have some complex processes and who require something extra. I hear what the Minister is saying, and it is fine that there are some agreements around here in some of the regions, but I think it is important that we send out a signal from in here that this is something we give so much priority that it should be part of the birth play that came.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140326	Thank you for your initial praise for our agreement, and I am very pleased about that. I must also say that I am even more pleased about what the midwives, the employees around, the head midwife at Hvidovre Hospital seem after seeing the agreement it is incredibly important to us. We've been waiting. It's amazing that this deal has now been made. It offers several midwives and increased care. We have been told such elements from many, many maternity wards. I think that is very positive. But if there is to be a private offer next to the public, there must also be some who want to start it, and I do not think we should finance that without it from the start.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140404	Then it's Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140405	But there are, too, for some of these free-standing midwife-led clinics around the country, among others. in Silkeborg, has been shouting guard in arms around this. So there are, and there will be, many more, because there are also many of the midwives, such as mine. is in a public maternity ward which actually has a desire to come out and be a woman in its own house, if you may say so. So I do not think the Minister should be so worried about that; that demand is out there. In this respect, I would actually like to ask about the citizens' proposal, because that was precisely what was meant by free elections. We in the Left wholeheartedly voted in favour of this, because it was one of the same things we wanted to do, but the government did, and it is perhaps a bit of a problem that the government supports a citizens' proposal that includes free elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140443	Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140445	I think that was a good citizen's proposal and it helped to put it on the agenda and many of the elements of our agreement will be found. I think it is only good with different offers and with freedom of choice, both in relation to being at home, in relation to a midwife-led maternity clinic, and it can be a private or a public, it is slightly different how one has chosen to organise oneself. The region of Southern Denmark uses both, and it is excellent for expectant mothers to be able to choose it, and I think that is only good, and that is what the existing legislation can do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140521	Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140522	Then I repeat what I said before, because that is precisely in relation to the citizens' proposal. It is mentioned as a proposal three in the citizens' proposal that there should be the possibility of both feeding in a public hospital, food at home or food at a free-standing midwife clinic. It is in the citizens' proposal and the government has voted in favour of it, but it is not part of the government's policy. It is totally contradictory to go out and say that, on the one hand, we are voting in favour of a citizens' proposal because we know that they want to hear it in the real world, and on the other hand it is not what we want. So, I am well aware that the Social Democrats will not be free to choose, but frankly, what is the problem of voting for it when that is what is wanted out in the real world by the birthers?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140556	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140557	That is a completely wrong description of what our policy is. As I have said from the start of this conversation here, it is the case that there is free choice today. You can choose to give birth at home, and if the region has made an agreement with a private clinic, you have done so in Region Sjælland, and now you are doing so in Region Syddanmark. You can also choose the entirely public offer, and then there are some, and that is among other things. what is now also happening in the Region of Southern Denmark, which has made an agreement to create a public midwife clinic. So there's these free choice options.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140635	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen and thank the Minister for Health. There are no more questions for the Minister of Health. But it is there for the Minister for Children and Education, and it is by Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140647	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140651	Thank you for that, President. What is the Minister's view that 35 young future high school students with an address in Herning Municipality have been denied admission to the local Herning High School with reference to more restrictive capacity restrictions than we have seen in previous years?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140710	Thank you. I just need the technique to work over here. Well, because there are so many myths on the question of pupil distribution, I would like to start by emphasising that the new student distribution rules do not apply this year. In other words, the issue we are discussing here concerns the old set of rules. And the rules are such that if there are more applicants than the number who have applied for a particular high school as their first priority, then it is the local distribution committee that is responsible for distributing the applicants. As I said, this is the old set of rules, which of course also applies in Herning this year, and the seats are then given to those who have the shortest distance from high school. First of all, it is important to bear in mind that young people are never guaranteed entry to a particular high school, although I know that some of the rapporteur's party colleagues make it sound like today there is just free choice all over the place and that you can just pick out any gymnasium, and then you have the right to go into it. No. Well, this is an example of how it's not really like that. Under the current rules, you can apply for admission, and if there are too many applicants for admission, then there will be some of the students who come to a different high school from the one they have applied for admission to. Secondly, it is also important to bear in mind that it is not central to the establishment of capacities. It is not central, and that means that it is not the state that sets the capacities; it is a local decision. And it is a local decision because it is the general view that it is both in the old system and in the new system that decisions like this are best made with local knowledge. And that is why the Central Jutland Region, with their distribution committees, has set the capacities for that area. Thirdly, municipal boundaries do not affect distribution to high schools. So, high schools are not a municipal institution, and that means that it is not the municipal boundary that is crucial. And you do not take precedence over admission to Herning Gymnasium if you live in Herning Municipality. It is the distance from high school that is crucial in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140925	Thank you. Sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518140926	Thank you. Both the Minister and I and the rest of the Danish Parliament here, I think, know that new rules are on the way, but that this year we see this under old rules. I also fully agree that this is happening locally-regionally, but it does not change the fact that the Minister could have some views on how it is going on around the country. And let me try to give some examples of the consequences that you see in Herning right now. It is quite true that this allocation has been made at regional level of capacity. Herning Gymnasium has on average over the last 5 years had 13 seats and had 12 seats last year for various reasons. And that is where the capacity reduction has been laid. Then you get an extraordinary number of applicants this year and, of course, you want to create 13 seats. One of the characteristics of these 35 young people who are resident in Herning Municipality and who have been rejected to Herning High School is that they are all resident in the municipality's smaller towns and so not, we have to say, in 7400 Herning. The people who live in 7400 Herning have then in turn been admitted. And around many of the country's municipalities, and not only in Herning, you make a huge effort to ensure that it should be attractive to settle throughout the municipality. And over the last few weeks I have talked to several families whose daughter or son has been rejected, and they tell me that this is like the drop that makes the cup float over, and that now you just don't feel it's attractive to live in Aulum or Vildbjerg or one of the other smaller towns in the municipality. And they also ask, when we're going to get the next shot off at high school, are we really going to pull up the tent poles and move into Herning town? Does the Minister share my concern that the distribution of pupils to high schools can simply threaten that it is attractive to settle anywhere in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141132	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141134	Yeah. Otherwise, we wouldn't change the student distribution mechanism. So it almost gives itself up. I mean, I am deeply sorry that the Left is voting against it, because I should say that for many years, among other things, we have been voting against it. has had to do with a Fjerritslev Gymnasium, which is severely distressed and where the absence of a student distribution mechanism today means that it risks closing with the result that there is no longer a local high school. So yes, I am extremely concerned because I believe that there should be an opportunity to go to high school throughout Denmark. I also believe that there are some bare spots on the map that create some huge challenges. Having said that, in all models it has been the case that you cannot be sure of your first priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141211	Sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141212	I think we may at best talk past each other, but peace with it. I have also spoken to several of these young people who have been rejected and who are now about to cross one or more municipal boundaries to attend high school. One of the things I have become aware of here is that these students actually get really, really deep into what they have to take, among other things. in terms of study orientation, and applies to a high school where there is a specific course of study. And then it just hits extra hard right now to experience that you are being distributed to a high school that doesn't have the offer that you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141247	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141248	I can only recommend once again that the Left vote in favour of the rules which are currently under discussion in the Danish Parliament on the new student distribution mechanism, in which it gives priority, if it is the case that one wants to enter a special high school which has a special orientation for study. That is what lies in the new distribution model; the fine-meshedness is not in the current model. And that means that having a particular desire for a particular direction of study takes precedence in the new model. The Left is incredibly busy shooting down all the possible new rules at the moment, and the reality is that a large number of the problems which, among other things, include: is outlined here, would not be there in the new model.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141322	Sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141324	So let me give you a third example. This year, ten of those who have been rejected are moved from Herning Gymnasium, a large high school in the region, to Holstebro Gymnasium, which is the second largest high school in the region and which, moreover, has no problem with the search number. And I suppose the Minister can confirm that this is not the intention of either the existing rules or the future rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141349	In other words, I can confirm that it is the case that the rules that will come into force from next year are not the rules that apply now. So if that is the point of the question, I can confirm that that is the point of the rules, and that is why I am a little sorry that the Left does not want to join them. Now I cannot ask questions the other way, but I just have to point out that in large parts of Herning Municipality one lives geographically closer to Holstebro Gymnasium than the other. This means that it depends on where in the municipality you live and that it is therefore not the municipality limit that defines the area just to say clearly but the distance to the gymnasium in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141425	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen, and thank you to the Minister for Children and Education. There are no more questions for the Minister for Children and Education. But it's there for the Minister of Transport, and it's from Mr. Knox. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left, who, I believe, is even having a birthday today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141439	Here you go for a reading of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141443	Thank you for that, President. Since fog has caused several delays at Bornholm Airport during the first four months of the year and there are techniques to ensure that fewer aircraft have to surrender to the fog, will the Minister take the initiative to upgrade the system at Bornholm so that fewer aircraft can be cancelled?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141505	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141506	Thank you for the question. It is clear that it is deeply frustrating when fog causes delays for air traffic. As I understand from TV 2/Bornholm's article, there have been 3 days this year when fog has caused delays for DAT's flights to Bornholm. It's the Traffic Authority that owns and operates the airport. The management must operate the airport in a safety and financially responsible manner and the airport must have its costs covered and the investment of new installations will therefore have to be covered by revenues from passengers and airlines. An upgrade of the existing instrument landing system will probably cost a two-digit million amount for which the airport users have to pay. This is quite an expense in my view, and I can be in doubt whether passengers and airlines have a desire for the price increases that will result from it. However, I would encourage passengers and the airline DAT to engage with the Traffic Authority and the airport on the possibilities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141606	Here you go, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141608	Thank you. Our flight is important, Minister. It is both for business and for the Bornholmers. But there's a group in particular sticking out. The fact is that the aircraft is actually the main means of transport for our patients. Bornholm is part of the Capital Region, and there are a lot of patients when it's a little harder diseases going to the Rigshospitalet when they have to be treated. They have cancelled their operations and are almost in the back of the queue again, so socio-economically it might make sense to invest a tens of millions of dollars so that people could get back to the labour market or recover their quality of life because they could get treatment at the Kingdom Hospital instead of not getting treatment. Is it not also a question of giving priority to rural areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141657	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141657-2	I do not need to be convinced that this is deeply frustrating and an annoyance for passengers. I understand that very well. However, I would like to call for a dialogue between the passengers and the airline DAT and the Traffic Authority and the airport, because we must be careful from the political point of view to simply decide to introduce expensive solutions for which the airport users are ultimately not willing to pay. That is why I think the right thing to do is to start this dialogue between the parties involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141733	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141734	Now is the second time that the Minister has said that a dialogue must be opened, because it is the passengers who have to pay for this. But the Bornholmers also help pay for a piece of motorway in Jutland, and why is it the Bornholmers who have to pay for their infrastructure, and why should everyone help to pay for everyone's infrastructure other than the Bornholmers? Is it fair that this cost should be paid exclusively by those who use the route? Should a similar principle be introduced for a motorway section or elsewhere in public transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141805-2	Well, that's the framework that currently exists in relation to the operation of the airport. It will then require a political decision to create a different framework for the airport. But the right solution is, of course, that dialogue should be initiated first and foremost through the official channels. Then, of course, we can always discuss everything politically. But that would be a total change in the framework we have for the operation of our airports and which we have had so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141838	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, on the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141839	An analysis work is currently being carried out in the very broad consultation circle on infrastructure 2035, which has been referred to as the Bornholm analysis. Is the Minister willing to have this put into the Bornholm analysis, so that the Bornholmers have as much opportunity to go to the hospital as any other Danes? If you cancel your flight because it cannot lighten or land because of fog, then you also lose your opportunity to receive your hospital treatment. Is the Minister ready to put this into the Bornholm analysis so that once and for all we can clarify this and also create solutions that reach forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141922	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141923	There are also islands around the country other than Bornholm. I understand that Bornholm is a great and proud beauty, and the questioner represents Bornholm in a fine way, but there must also be comparability across with the other island communities, where there are also some who, for example, miss a ferry. So it has to be taken into account in those discussions. I am not, from the outset, opposed to anything, but in that case it will have to be taken up where the decisions are taken, and that is in the conciliation circle about these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518141956	The question is closed. But we shall continue, if I may say so, with the same crew with questions to the Minister for Transport of Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142004	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142007	Since the Prime Minister mentioned in his New Year's speech that in 2025 the Danes should have the opportunity to fly green on a domestic service, is the Minister satisfied with how the work on this is progressing?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142019-2	Thank you for the question. It is true that the government has set the ambitious goal that in 2025 the Danes should have the opportunity to fly green on one domestic route, and by 2030 they should be able to fly green when flying domestic in Denmark. These are ambitious objectives and there are no easy solutions for the green conversion of aviation, but Denmark must take the lead and raise the bar for the green conversion. It is not always easy to take the lead; there are challenges that we have to solve and with which we are working intensively. We have invited both the aviation industry, fuel manufacturers and suppliers to discuss the various solutions, and we have got a lot of good input with regard to the green types of fuel and the technical challenges with regard to the aircraft. Today, for example, it is. allowed only to incorporate up to 50%. Green fuels. However, through our dialogue with the aircraft manufacturers, we have learned that several aircraft manufacturers have already come a long way with testing aircraft engines that can handle 100 per cent. Green fuels, and we are confident that this can be achieved by 2025. At the same time, we must also bear in mind that aviation is an international mode of transport which requires more international cooperation to regulate, and that is why we are also working at international level to promote the green transition of aviation. I would therefore also like to say that the work is very well under way. The government will present a proposal on green aviation later this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142145	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142146	Thank you. I am very pleased because our domestic air traffic is extremely important to tie the country together and ensure that we have an infrastructure so that we can get back and forth relatively quickly, take care of our meetings, come over and visit your family, get to the hospital with which you are connected. I would like to return a little to involving the airlines. To what extent do they sit around the table and help to find the solutions that will make us all have to fly green in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142223	Well, we have invited the aviation industry, fuel manufacturers and suppliers to discuss the various solutions. I myself have also had talks with both airports and airlines about the green transition. So it is certainly not the case that there is no possibility of • if you have some ideas • to bring them in and have discussions about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142247	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142248	So when we talk about the green transition, someone has to take the lead. Someone has to take the lead and find the smart solutions and the right solutions to make things work. In other areas we have test wind turbines, test areas, etc. Should a local flight be appointed as a test route for the green transition so that you can continuously test things and see if things work? Does the Minister believe that there will be local airlines that will be involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142323	As I have said, we will come with our proposal later this autumn, but yes, I have great faith that there are routes that have an interest in both airports and routes. The second thing is that it is airports that must be prepared to re-route their airport so that they can actually handle these flights going to and from. But yes, that is my clear expectation, and I actually find that there is great and wide demand and desires. And I think we're gonna have more people who want to be part of this project than the project can carry in the first round.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142356	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen, on the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142357	Thank you. Now it is the case that, despite the fact that air traffic is very scolded, there are indeed routes where the most climate-saving way to travel is by air. And that is because airlines are very much already confusing, but it is also because they make up for climate change. They plant forest or buy CO2 but it's costful. It's very costy. To what extent will the Minister and the Minister's Government help to keep their hands on air traffic in this process of conversion and thus also provide the basis for us to make social discounts, etc., which will enable an airline to adjust financially?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142438	Thank you. Then we'll get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142439	We will come back with a proposal later this year, where we will have to deal with various aspects. But it should be the case that, on the longer track, you have sustainable aviation, which is also green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142453	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Peter Juel-Jensen and the Minister of Transport. Question 14 is deleted. That brings us to Question 15, which is to the Minister for Taxation. It's from Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142506	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142508	Thank you. What does the Minister think about the government's proposals for a green tax reform overall raising the burden on Danish business by 2 billion? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142518	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142520	Thank you for the question. As you know, in Denmark we have one of the world's most ambitious climate targets. We have committed ourselves to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by 70%. in 2030 compared to 1990. It is therefore important that we now have decisions that ensure a stable framework for the long-term green transition. In the government, as you know, we have proposed a high and more uniform tax rate on CO2 A CO2 In order to help companies with the conversion, the government will provide them with targeted help for green conversion to the companies hit hardest by CO2 All the money from CO2 So yes, the government's proposal for a green tax reform involves an immediate business burden of approx. 2 billion kr. in 2030, but it is before the conversion of companies, which is the whole point of introducing a CO2 load is much lower when taking into account the conversion of companies away from fossil fuels. After so-called backflows and behaviour, the business load is barely 1 billion. kr. in 2030 and just under 0.5 billion. kr. Lasting; that load is virtually impossible to measure on the tax burden. And then a reserve of just over 0.5 billion has been set aside. kr., which has not yet been implemented. So I am optimistic and believe that we can succeed in creating an ambitious green agreement that ensures what it is all about and takes responsibility for meeting our common climate targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142648	Mrs. Marie Bjerre, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142649	Thank you for your answer. Thank you, too, for the government's initiative for green tax reform. We're actually really happy about that. Indeed, we fully agree with the government that a CO2 we have started to open these negotiations so little, but I think this deserves a little public debate on such a green tax reform. Now the minister says that these 2 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to return to business, as I understand it, there is a net tax increase of 2 billion. kr. in 2030. There is also an additional revenue for the State, which, however, falls to 350 million. kr. lastingly in lasting effect. In the Left, we do not think that a CO2 we would like a green tax reform with a shift in taxes, where other taxes will then fall accordingly, so that taxes do not increase overall. In addition, we do not mean that taxes should simply go to zero. In fact, we also believe that this green tax reform should be used to make Denmark richer. In other words, we want to link growth and development, because it is actually the case that we see that we can become an ambitious green forerunner and we can have an ambitious green forerunner. That is why I would like to follow up on the question: if we now, hopefully, make such an agreement here, will the government help us to get it coupled with safeguarding the competitiveness of business, or should it be an independent objective that green tax reform should also provide revenue for the Treasury?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142827	Thank you for the question, and thank you for your kindness, also in relation to what is our common ambition. I certainly hope that we can reach an agreement on this, because it is important, including for industry. It is also important to be focused on what this is about and what it is not about. This is about making a CO2 later this year, the expert group will come up with a new report on agriculture, and then we'll start. And no, it is not the ambition that the money from the tax should go into the treasury and go for other purposes. In fact, that is why we are proposing that raw materials and stubble should go back as conversion aid to those companies which have the most difficulty in relocating themselves. That is also why the tax burden is virtually undetectable. For all the money from the tax goes back to the conversion, plus more.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142912	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142914	Thank you for your answer. As we read it, it is quite clear that this leads to a tax increase of 2 billion. kr. in 2030, and that there is also an additional revenue for the state, unless the Minister stands here and says otherwise, i.e. that there isn't. As we understand, then, there is a lasting effect on this in relation to the increase in taxes. Or am I to understand that we are going to help ensure that what taxes rise is returned to business and that the way it is to be returned to business is to be done by lowering other taxes and taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518142950	In other words, all the money that comes from the tax goes back to business as a conversion aid. That is the conversion fund of 7 billion. kr., we've played out with. We have put more money on top of that than what comes in from the tax. So no, there is no money going into the treasury, which is going to go to education, health or other things. Everything is being taken back to business. As I said, there is barely 0.5 billion on the long track. kr. We have to look at how we deal with it. We have also set aside some reserves for this. However, using that money to distribute widely as corporate tax concessions seems to us to be a bad idea, because then we will find it more difficult to help those companies that are hardest to adapt and thus there is an increased risk of jobs and CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143036	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143038	Then I think I understood correctly, because what you then get in extra from this CO2 is then returned through this conversion aid instead of tax relief. The problem is that it makes Denmark poorer. That is what is said in the motion for a resolution, and that is why my last question must be whether the Minister cannot confirm that if you do not want to reduce taxes and charges accordingly, it makes Denmark poorer; it actually makes all income groups poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143113	No, I can't confirm that. Thus, there is virtually no impact on bnp, there is virtually no impact on the tax burden, and there is virtually no impact on the general consumer. So, no, I can't confirm that this project is making Denmark poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143127	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Taxation and to Mrs. Marie Bjerre. The last question in Question Time is to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, asked by Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143140	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143143	Thank you, Madam President. What is the Minister's view that tenants risk historically large increases in rent due to higher inflation, such as: is triggered by higher energy prices, and will the Minister take the initiative to change the regulatory mechanism so that price increases in energy, for example, will not affect the rent of the tenants?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143206	Thank you for the question. In the question reference is made to an article published in B.T. On 12 May, when representatives of two rental organizations say that it cannot be right for tenants to have to pay the same price increase twice, for example. rising energy prices have a spill-over effect on the net price index. The rental law, as the honourable Member has also said, allows tenants and landlords to agree, at the conclusion of the lease agreement, that the rent is adjusted once a year according to the net price index. This kind of rental regulation is mainly agreed in rentals with free rents and in leases that are thoroughly modernised. The net price index is an index calculated on the basis of a weight basis which is different from the weight base in the consumer price index. For example: different forms of energy supply with a lower weight in the net price index than in the consumer price index. I therefore believe that it is not true, when it is said, that the tenants will pay for energy in two rounds. As is also reflected in B.T.'s article, this is currently a historically high increase in the net price index. At the same time, it appears that, on the other hand, very low increases in the net price index have been observed over a number of years. I find it regrettable that the rising price level has a spill-over effect on rents, just as the rising price level is a challenge in general, but I do not think that, on the basis of what has been said, I have any evidence of interfering with and amending the rental rules of the rental law. Having said that, I am of the opinion that we should follow this area very closely in the coming years, just as inflation over and above all gives reason for us to follow developments closely in a number of areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143409	Thank you for your reply. I am pleased that the Minister would answer the questions here today, even though the Minister did not come up with anything that could be promised, nor with any guarantees or any initiatives in this regard. I think there was a word of regret, that the Minister regretted that many tenants can now look forward to having a sudden adjustment of their rent, because they have lease contracts typically concluded in 2015, where the net price index mentioned here is precisely the case, compared to the fact that the landlord can regulate with more than the normal market rent regulation, but also make a regulation because of inflation • inflation which unfortunately seems to be significantly higher than in many of the years we have measured in the past in relation to rent. And it is certainly an increase that has not been there since 2015, when this new regulatory mechanism was introduced. That is also why I think it gives cause for great concern, which I also hope the Minister for Home Affairs and Home Affairs will be keeping an eye on, at least in terms of the consequences for these many affected tenants, who can look forward to the fact that not only general inflation is there in relation to light, water and heat, etc., but also that their lease contains this passage on regulation in relation to index numbers. So I think the Minister should say here today that the Minister will keep an eye on this. I think that is a little more than just regretting it. I would also like to ask the Minister if he has an assessment that most people who rent a dwelling are aware that when you choose a standard rental contract, it will then exist in two forms: one with and one without indexing. Does the Minister think that most tenants are aware of that difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143617	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143618	Thank you for the question and also for the opportunity to discuss this important issue. I think I concluded my answer by saying that I will follow developments very closely, and that is also a response to the questioner. When I am not standing here throwing promises around, it is really also to get honesty into this debate that I think is necessary in all the areas where we talk inflation. Because we cannot at Christiansborg, regardless of what political basis we come with, keep all Danes free from the consequences of inflation, and this honesty I think we owe the Danes and each other in this difficult debate. But it's a challenge. However, I think it should be borne in mind that what happened in the past in this area was, of course, these stairs bearing models which have meant increases, regardless of whether there was inflation or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143703	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143704	Thank you. I fully agree with the Minister's reply to the questions, but I do not think the Minister replied whether the Minister for Housing had the presumption or expectation that an average Danish tenant is aware that there are two different types of standard rental contracts, one with indexing and one without. Does the Minister really believe that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143727	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143728	It's hard to give any very clear idea of that. I really believe that the Danes, the Danes most, are aware of the type of lease contracts they sign and are therefore also aware that the increase in inflation can have an impact on their rent. It has only been the case in recent years that, although one was aware of it and had signed it, inflation has been so low that it was relatively minor. What I just think one should be aware of is that these types of rentals were regulated in a different way earlier before 2015, typically using the stair model, where the rent increased year after year. There, I think, it is generally more advantageous for tenants to have the second option, namely with the net price index.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143817	Thank you. Then it is the questioner for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143818	Yes, the latter is the case, both as a minister and as an ordinary layman like me as a parliamentarian, because I really think most tenants are interested in having in what is called a stable development in their rent a stable development in their spending costs by living in a rental home. What we are seeing today is that we can see that, unfortunately, prices are rising sharply, among other things. on food and not least on energy, also for buildings and for daily housekeeping. That is why it is particularly difficult that we have this mechanism, which I think is very important. Now I recognise that the Minister said that the Minister will follow it, and of course I respect that, and I will ensure that the Minister is allowed and able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143904	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143905	This is a discussion that I would very much like to take part in, even on a slightly longer basis. I believe that inflation is one of the policy areas on which we should focus the most attention at the moment. This is true in relation to the impact of inflation on housing expenditure. This applies to the impact of inflation on social inequality. It is essential politically to have an awareness of inflation, but at the same time it is also a challenge that is politically very difficult to deal with, because it is very often the case that the medicines you take to address the problem can have a negative side effect by pushing inflation, so this is really an area where there are political dilemmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143946	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing and to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518143955	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518144022	Thank you. I have looked forward to discussing this resolution and am very pleased that we will have the opportunity to look at this area, and I would like to begin by thanking the Danish People's Party and Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen for the opportunity to discuss it. I think we have already had good cross-cutting discussions, and I have also had a direct dialogue with the proposers on how to deal with this challenge. So let's take the debate now. I look forward to that, but I just want to say at the outset that I have a hope that, as far as this proposal is concerned, we can broadly agree on where we are going and then we can have a discussion on how to get there. The fact is that I fully share the intention in the resolution to look after our colonial gardens, and I am therefore pleased that the initiative has been taken by the Danish People's Party. This is also the case to bring in a little socialist history here that the draft law on colonial gardens was tabled by Svend Auken and the S-led government in 2001 and was adopted in 2002. The aim of the law is and was to ensure that the colonial garden area can continue to be an essential part of the urban population's opportunities for recreation and employment in leisure time. It is important that they are not closed down and transferred to other uses, and it is important that we take care of our colonial garden tradition. I believe that the colonial garden area has a special character and charm. Colony gardens are based on a long popular tradition, one that we also know from our common song tax and allow the part of the population who live in cities and typically in apartments to grow some outdoor life in small gardens together with others. These are qualities and opportunities that we must do what we can to preserve and take care of. I also believe that, unfortunately, in some colonial gardens today, there are challenges with full-year residence, and I believe that we need to do something about it. And that is why I would like to thank the Danish People's Party once again for raising the issue. With the proposal, the proposers want a ban on registering in the central register of persons, i.e. the CPR register, resident in colonial gardens. But as I have had the opportunity to discuss with Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, in our best opinion, this is not the way we should go in order to put an end to illegal full-year residence. This is first and foremost because we do not believe that it will solve the problem, since people who do not comply with a ban on full-year residence will hardly comply with a ban on residence registration either. In addition, such a ban would be contrary to the fundamental principle of residence registration, namely that persons should be registered as resident where they actually reside and which is also where they can be taken in connection with, for example, a bailiff shop, a police business or other. It has a number of consequences if we do not uphold that principle. If the information on the place of residence of persons is not correctly stated, the CPR register cannot form the basis for e.g. the administration of public services, including automatic payments of, for example, family allowances or the targeted heat check. Today it also follows from the definition of a colonial garden area by the colonial law that the settlement in the area must not be used for the full year residence. However, the Colonial Law does not today contain any mandatory or penal provisions enabling the municipality to enforce a ban on full-year residence under that law. This often makes it a complicated matter, an unnecessarily complicated matter when there is suspicion of illegal permanent residence in the areas. The concrete basis for each colonial garden area can be e.g. be a local plan or a rental agreement... today is crucial for where the ban on full-year residence is laid down, and thus for who is to enforce that ban. For example: the municipality enforces local plans and land zone permits according to the rules of the Planning Act, whereas the colonial garden association or landlord can enforce private-law contracts, association statutes and similar agreements on a private-law basis. The current unequal basis for a ban on full-year residence can create uncertainty and make effective enforcement more difficult. Among other things: there is experience that colonial garden associations based on members' voluntary efforts may find it very difficult to indict and stop illegal use in their own colonial garden area, especially, of course, if the illegal use is carried out by persons who are already criminals or otherwise have behaviour that makes it quite difficult for a garden association to impose such a ban on full-year residence for completely incomprehensible reasons. As I understand it, several parties agree that the government here is seeking to resolve the problem by making a proposal for amendment of the colonial law in the parliamentary year 2022-23. The aim is to introduce a general and clear ban on full-year residence in all colonial gardens, regardless of their basis, for example. local plan, land zone permit, servitut or lease agreement. This will mean that it will be described in more detail what is not a full-year residence. The definition will be drawn up in the context of the forthcoming legislative proposal. This will be a ban with municipal supervisory powers, and thus the municipality will in all cases be a supervisory authority. With the proposal, we will ensure that the municipalities have the necessary tools in the toolbox to deal with illegal permanent residence problems. Municipalities are thus given the opportunity to issue orders to colonists who use their colonial garden illegally. This means that the municipality can impose an end to the illegal use. If that does not happen, we will allow municipalities to issue periodic fines, inspired by the model we know from the summer cottage area. In the end, the municipality will also be able to report to the police if the illegal use does not stop. I understand that the Colony Gardens Association is immediately positive about this solution and has the hope that we will manage to address these problems of illegal full-year residence. That is why the government's conclusion is that we will not be voting in favour of the resolution, in other words because we do not see a ban on residence registration in the CPR legislation as a solution to the problem. Instead of continuing the dialogue we have had with the parties of the Folketing, the proposers and other stakeholders and proposing changes to the colonial law, so that we can get to the place where the Danish People's Party and Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen outlines in the proposal, a place where you get better tools to deal with full-year residence, and where it is the municipality that has to go out and regulate it, and where, as we have unfortunately seen, it is not criminal elements that set the agenda in our colonial gardens. For us in the Social Democracy and for the government, colonial gardens are an essential part of the Danish cultural heritage. We must be careful about this, and that is why we must react when we see something in our colonial garden associations that is not as it should be. And that is why I welcome the proposal and welcome the initial dialogue we have had with several of you that we can take us to a place where we can deal with the problem with some tools that are good and that work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518144842	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518144844	Thank you to the Minister for the good speech. I can confirm that the Danish People's Party supports the government's approach, which in many ways is better than the solution that we put forward in the resolution. Sometimes it happens that you get smarter. It happens to me a lot. It has been a pleasure to work with the Minister on this. It has been a short time since he joined and it has also been a pleasure to cooperate with the former minister, Mr. Kaare Dybvad Bek, about this. And I'm glad the government has been able to see that the intention was the right one. But maybe the model wasn't that good. So just briefly, I can confirm that we support the government's approach. Actually, I think it's a really good model. And it is also a great pleasure for me that the Colony League also backs up. So thank you for your cooperation, which I look forward to hopefully continuing after the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518144949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518144951	Well, thank you so much. It is also just an opportunity to give that recognition back. Thank you for your cooperation, and I really think that we have an example here that the people's regime is working very well and perhaps also better than its reputation. We have a proposal from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, who is good and who gets us a better place. We can discuss what tools we need to use. On a cross-cutting basis, we can talk in the Folketing and, I believe, achieve a great deal of support for us to do something here that works, that gets us in line with the intention of the proposal, and that can be done in interaction between many parties and also the stakeholders out in reality, who depend on us here in the Folketing to make good legislation. So I look forward to further cooperation, both on this and on other matters, but of course especially on the drafting of the legislative proposal and, hopefully, adoption after the summer break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518145045	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518145046	I can also say that I think there are many law-abiding gardeners who are going to be happy about this and especially the boards who meet these problems on a daily basis and find it difficult to enforce the law. Of course. It's voluntary, so I don't want them to go out and play cops. It's hard for them. Now they have a partner in the law and, in future, hopefully also in the municipality, and this makes things much easier for them, so that we can preserve the colonial garden traditions, as we know them, as the Minister so beautifully said. So thank you again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518145122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518145123	Well, I fully agree, and I think that is what is most important in relation to the tools we have discussed, namely that we are giving support to the law-abiding colonial garden owners and, in particular, to the volunteers who are taking the lead in this cultural phenomenon on the boards of the gardens. They should not be faced in some cases with deep criminals who abuse what is the colonial garden to something that it should not be. It is not a task for them alone; it is where we, as a society, must step in and stand behind them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518145155	Thank you to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. There are no more brief comments. Then we start with the rapporteurs. I do not see the Socialist rapporteur, and that is why he is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518145219	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party to raise this issue in an area where it can be said that there are a great many citizens who enjoy being able to come out and have freedom and freedom in their colonial garden association, but it may not always be something we are politically good enough to address as part of what it helps to provide quality especially for those who live in cities. In fact, I think there are a lot of people, at least as I hear what is dreaming of a colonial garden, but that it is not possible to operate one at all. I also found out in connection with this that the first colonial garden association was founded by a Leftman, and I think that is a little funny, but it is also extremely positive to see that what we have today as an inheritance that many people enjoy is something that was created because someone had an idea that there was an improvement here. What Jørgen Berthelsen did was that he had 15 hours. land, and he laid them out at his own expense, so that families could have a small sanctuary. I think that what he was doing back then has been something about giving land to grow some vegetables, and then you could get out and get some fresh air. It is, of course, a long way from some of the colonial gardens we see today, but it tells us a little about the fact that when there are some who are enterprising and see some opportunities, it can really put some impressions forward. We in the Left also very much agree that it is important that we continue to protect this tradition. That's how it is, and we've seen it in Aarhus, where I come from... Alex Ahrendtsen comes from Odense that there are challenges in some places, just like there are other places where everything works really well. We must, of course, ensure that there are those tools. That is why I would also like to thank the Minister for having produced a paper on this. We appreciate that, and we think it is well described, and that there are some very good intentions in terms of achieving solutions that can address the challenges that exist. So thank you for giving us the debate and thank you for moving on with it. I expect that this thing that I'm listening to ends up in a story. Once again, thank you to DF for lifting this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518145442	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518145501	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution. In Denmark we have a proud tradition of our colonial gardens. The purpose of the colonial gardens is to give the urban population in particular an opportunity to create a free space away from the city • a free space with the opportunity for active leisure during the part of the year that allows for outdoor life. Unfortunately, the colonial gardens are increasingly exploited for full-year residence, which creates a number of problems for the Danish colonial garden associations. With this resolution, the Danish People's Party therefore proposes that it should no longer be possible to have a population register address in the colonial gardens, as can be done today. Unfortunately, such intervention does not solve the problem of associations. As district chairman, I have been in dialogue with a great many from colonial garden associations, and they mention that it is a major problem to prove that a colonial gardener lives illegally. And it is also a great responsibility to require the individual to appoint or disfellowship a criminal. If you terminate a tenant on the board of the association, it is the board that has the burden of proof in the legal system. It's actually not fair. We are therefore very, very happy that the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing will now look at the legislation on the Danish colonial gardens, because far along the way we agree with the intentions of the Danish People's Party behind the proposal. However, as the Minister has also said, it requires some other measures, such as: to give the municipalities the power to enforce the law and thus not the hard-tested associations. That is why we would like to support the proposal to introduce a ban on infringements of the rules, as is the case with the Danish summer houses, with the possibility of imposing fines if the rules on illegal residence are infringed. We would also like to contribute to a joint report which will then lead to a legislative proposal which I can then hear from the Minister that they are working on so that we can solve the problems that are to be found now. Against this background, unfortunately, we cannot support the motion for a resolution. But we look forward to working on this problem that needs to be resolved. So I am very pleased that the Minister is seriously looking at this and that they will soon have a legislative proposal on the table. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518145753	Thank you. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why it is now the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Christina Thorholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518145802	From Radicals, too, I would like to thank the DF for putting forward this proposal on unintended and illegal practices in our colonial garden houses. Colony gardens, which the minister also spoke into, are our cultural history, and the purpose of the colonial garden was to allow people to buy or rent a leisure home, get out of the apartment, get fresh air and soil under their nails. We must safeguard that purpose so that as many people as possible can do so. The motion for a resolution mainly addresses the challenge of the population living there in winter, in relation to criminals and socially vulnerable people. We must ensure that there are housing for people who need high ceilings and alternative housing because they do not thrive in an apartment, but the colonial gardens do not have to solve that. But what I have emphasized as issues is that the colonial garden associations and the colonial garden movement see pressure, also in relation to larger constructions being allowed in colonial gardens, i.e. full-year residential, which raise sales prices, which leads to the fact that it was an opportunity for most people to buy or rent a colonial garden house, being limited, and we think this is inappropriate. We would like to include the Colonial Garden League in a review of the rule of law and the current sanctions and enforcement to ensure an effective ban on full-year residence in the colonial gardens. We support the work of the government and the report we expect we can make together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518150003	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Christina Thorholm. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518150011	Thank you. Well Enhedslisten wants to preserve that we have colonial garden areas and recreational values, which gives us the opportunity to grow vegetables and flowers; the opportunity for people living in dense cities to come out and be in a small house. The intention is, of course, that it should be available to those who do not have the financial capacity to buy a summer house for millions. I think these intentions are useful to me, and I am delighted when I get past colonial gardens at this time of year and see how much life there can be out there. With regard to the Danish People's Party's proposal here, the text states that it is proposed that there is no longer the possibility of having a population register address in colonial gardens. I do not think I can see any problem in that if there are some who use their colonial gardens very much during the summer and have their population register addresses there. Nor do I like the latter, which is on the first page, to give the municipalities the right to see statements of accounts from some people that are being assessed, i.e. whether they live there too much. I understand from the Minister that this motion for a resolution gives rise to solutions other than those contained in the motion for a resolution, and that is something we are open to looking at. I would very much like to look at a piece of paper what these are for some solutions. And if it ends up with a sensible report being written on this proposal, then we are completely open to it. I think it is worth protecting that we have decent housing in Denmark. So it is not always right to move out and spend the whole year in a colonial garden where there is probably a poor form of warming, a poor insulation, which can be mold fungus, and there may be some fire conditions that are actually not in order and that make you not to live there. So I see absolute dilemmas in this. At the same time, it must also be said that there may be some people who themselves think that they have a better life by being out in a colonial garden. So this is something that we want to balance. We would very much like to see what practical arrangements are contained in a report and what the government is working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518150257	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and then it is the Conservative People's Party rapporteur, Mrs Gitte Willumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518150313	Thank you very much to the Danish People's Party for putting these illegals on the agenda that are taking place in our colonial gardens. Because the law is clear: the settlements must not be used for all-year residences. That is the way it should be in the future. Colony gardens must be a free space and a place for joy and pleasure. I myself, at one point, showed some students around in colonial gardens, and they were very preoccupied with it and thought it was a great place. They were such suburban children who hadn't seen colonial gardens before. So thank you for taking the debate in this Chamber today. The task is then for us to find the best solution, because it is not reasonable for the individual colonial garden association itself to solve the task of getting unwanted residents out of the colonial garden settlement. The thorough work done by the Danish People's Party with this proposal shows that it is a significant problem and has grown over the years. That we have 2,322 people with a population register address in a colonial garden association in Odense, Aarhus and Copenhagen tells everything. The Conservative People's Party agrees with the goal so that together we can find the best way of resolving it. I understand from the Minister that he will look at a solution. We would like to thank the Minister for that. We would like to take part in this and we look forward to further work on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518150452	Thank you. There are no brief comments. I would like to thank the Conservative rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518150501	Thank you. I can start by saying that we will not be voting in favour of this resolution because there are a few elements, including the People's Register address, with which we do not agree, and I am also concerned about giving the municipalities more power to go in and check people out. I understand the problem of colonial gardens, but I think we should also look at the fact that for some of the people who have chosen to live in a colonial garden, it is because they have not had other options and that for some it is because they have some things in life that make them better able to be there. And we must be very careful that we do not make the road of life so narrow that there is no room for the people and the existences and the way in which they need to live. This does not mean that I do not recognise the problems that lie ahead. I just think it's important to raise this now, when we have a good debate about colonial garden houses... and I think we should have that... so that we address it, that we allow people to have some room for manoeuvre, and that everything isn't so municipal, that there's no room for it, if that's where you can find yourself. How big is the problem, and can we not include it to our fellow human beings, that there are some who feel that way, and are we going to be such types that become rulers all the way through and that say that nothing must change in it, and that there must not just be a little space and space here? I don't want a society like that either. I want a society in which we can accommodate those people who just need to be there. So it has to be my input here, and then I know that there will be some legislation from the government, and I will then take a position on that when it comes to how it is arranged and whether there is something that takes it into account. But I think we're busy putting people in boxes, and if you don't fit in there, you don't have a proper place in society, and I think that's too bad. Nor is it certain that this is the intention of the Danish People's Party; it is certainly not my view of the rapporteur in general that this is what he wants with society, but it is just to raise a small red flag that we do not go down that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518150727	Thank you. There are a few brief comments to be made, first to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518150729	I'm a little confused. It's illegal to live all year in a colonial garden. You've never been supposed to live there all year. It's been an offer for people who didn't have a utility garden because they lived in apartments. So they could come out and grow some vegetables, and they could go home with them, but it is illegal to live there from 1 October to 1 April. Don't New Citizens recognize that it's illegal? Or am I to understand that it is quite right that people live all year long in a colonial garden inside the cities, even though it has never been intended to do so, and even though the law forbids permanent residence?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518150817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518150818	No, well, the law is what the law is. It would be strange if I were not to acknowledge that the law is the way it is and if anyone were to break the existing law, then there are also penalties for what can be done about it. Then we can have a debate about who should have the sanctions and who should have the power to do something about it, or whether we should change the law and make it more flexible, so that it, for example, can do something about it. There is a possibility that exemptions may be granted, so that there are some who can do it, etc., and where some other considerations can be taken into account. In other words, we can have a debate on the law on colonial gardens and whether it is appropriate as it is, and of course I recognise the law as it is now. However, I also hope that the rapporteur recognises that, if anyone breaks the law today, there are also penalties for it. Then you can have the impression that they are not enough, that it is not available, but there is, of course, scope for sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518150915	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518150916	But it is precisely in a nutshell that there is not really any sanction for the municipality. Today it is more or less up to the board of garden associations to enforce them. And I've talked to a lot, and it's not funny for them to go and tell a habit criminal that you can't live here all year, and then the habit criminal threatens both him and the board of directors. There they simply need the support of the municipality so that they can enforce that you do not live there all year, and it may be by an injunction, it may be by fines, and it may be by a police notification, as the government has proposed. Doesn't New Citizens agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518150952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518150954	Now I do not believe that the majority of people who may be longer in colonial gardens are habitual criminals. It is my opinion that it is some other people, some other personalities, some who may not be able to afford another accommodation, some who may have some things in their lives that make it exactly the place where they can stand to be. It is not my impression that it is habit criminals who fill up colonial gardens everywhere. If it was, we would have another challenge. I recognise that there may be individual cases, including those where the rapporteur belongs geographically, but I do not believe that it is generally customary criminals who fill the colonial gardens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518151030	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518151031	Thank you. Now I do not really think that there is any reason to talk further away from each other, because I hear the rapporteur being positive about colonial gardens. What we in the Left would like, at least, is to ensure that we continue to have them and that they are in a form which allows them to be the breathing hole for those whom I have just heard that new citizens are also talking about. But perhaps I also think that I lack a little response from the rapporteur as to whether the rapporteur does not also recognise that there may be reasonableness in the fact that the municipalities have a few handles, i.e. that they own a large part of the land. It is the case that the land is primarily owned by the municipalities, and then it is owned a little bit by the state and a little bit by the associations. In this way, I also hope that the rapporteur recognises that there may also be a special right on the part of the municipalities to help ensure that there is the breathing hole for the people that the rapporteur talks about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518151126	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518151127	Yes, in general, I am very careful to give more power to the municipalities. I understand that it can be difficult for a board of directors, and it can be a bad conversation to have with people, but something in life can also be a slave, and it doesn't mean that you have to take all responsibility away from people and from the nearest board of these associations to be able to make those choices and make those decisions, even though they are difficult decisions. I do not want a culture in which all difficult decisions are moved from decentralised to central, just because it is easier. I do not know if that was an answer, but it was certainly my intention to give an answer to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518151204	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518151206	Thank you. I won't mark with my finger another time. I would like to say that I hear the concern. I hope, then, that New Citizens will also help to read the line paper that has come from the government and see if you can be part of a joint report, because I really think that there is a common interest here in trying to see if you can land something that can also ensure our colonial garden associations forward-looking. I do not see it as a great hammer given to the municipalities; I see it as an opportunity when the associations themselves cannot solve a problem at all, but now we have to look at it in writing when it comes to the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518151246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518151247	I hope I explained that too. Now we have to see what comes from the government and what bill comes, and then I will take a position on it when it lies there. It's not concrete yet, so it's hard to decide. I have a concern about that. After all, I would much, much rather have us have a society where there was room for even more freedom and freedom as colonial gardens. I wish we had plenty of places for these people who then don't fit into these general housing buildings and don't fit into those apartments and who need to be in such a place where they might be able to live in a slightly different way than the rest of society. I don't just want to take them away from society, because where are they supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518151331	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. And then it is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518151340	Thank you, and I am sorry that I had miscalculated the timing of this rapporteur's speech. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising the problem of the colonial gardens; this is an important problem. Social democracy shares the view that colonial gardens are an important element in recreational and social life in Denmark and are not a permanent residence form. The Social Democratic Party considers that it would be sensible for the Minister of Home Affairs and Housing to review the code of conduct for colonial gardens, so as to highlight the fact that colonial gardens can fulfil their original purpose: to provide the population with good opportunities for active leisure in the part of the year that allows for outdoor life. When the rules of the colonial gardens are described, it is essential that enforcement is not left to the colonial gardeners alone, who are doing a great deal of work on a voluntary basis. We cannot leave it to voluntary association work to enforce rules that some groups go to the edge of, while others respect the legislation in force. It is therefore proposed by the government to initiate work to investigate further possibilities of ensuring effective administration against full-year settlement in colonial gardens in order to stem the illegal and illegal use of colonial gardens in the country's municipalities. On the question of which media should be used to ensure this, we think it should be based on the review which the Minister has put forward to present to the Folketing. We in the Socialist Group are prepared to land a report text if that is what we can do in this House. We are not voting in favour of the motion for a resolution as it stands, but we would like to take a positive view of the text of the report. And then we would very much like to take part in the dialogue with the Minister to come up with a sensible proposal which solves the problems that have been raised. I would like to say that, in addition to the association-based administration of power in our society, one of the things we are betting on is that of our CPR system. It is something that we should be able to trust that we can all have a CPR number no matter where we are, how we might live, etc. It should be an opportunity for everyone. However, we are in favour of the proposal and its intention, and we are happy to be included in a balanced report calling for legislative proposals to ensure the existence of colonial gardens according to their original purpose, which, moreover, was institutionalised by the decision of the then Environment Minister, Svend Auken, made around the colonial gardens at the time, and that is perhaps an additional reason to stress that it is reasonable for us to safeguard the colonial gardens as a recreational measure in an orderly society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518151700	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518151715	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs of the parties for the many good speeches. Thank you, too, for supporting the government's proposal. I think that is actually very refreshing, perhaps just apart from New Citizens' • what should I call the Christianialiberalist approach to the subject. It was very surprising that the wing had that view. I would also like to thank the government for being very responsive, as is the former Minister for Housing, Mr. Kaare Dybvad Bek, and the current minister who sits down there. It has been a very positive process; one has been open and welcoming, although Dansk Folkeparti does not form part of the government's support. Well, that looks good for the future. I also think that the solution proposed by the government and the Minister is better than the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, so I will not vote in favour of my motion for a resolution either, because the solution put forward by the Minister is much better. And there have actually been good arguments when we were sitting over there talking to the minister. The argument to illegalize the population register address in a colonial garden will actually make it harder to detect illegal residence, because the population register address in a colonial garden is actually evidence that someone might abuse it. And that's why it's an indicator that something's wrong. So, first of all, the government's proposal to define full-year residence is important because it is not in the law what it means. Secondly, it is important that we make the penalty stripper and provide the municipalities with the tools that they already have with regard to holiday homes owners: injunctions, fines and then, in the end, a notification to the police. Those are actually good tools. And why is that? Yes, because today it is the gardeners, the garden associations, who have to lift the burden, and so it is not easy for them. I have talked to some of them, and it is not small things that sometimes they are exposed to when they tell someone that they cannot live there all year long. There are threats, there are fists in the air, and there you have to be strong. And it's not certain you want to mess with your neighbor. So it's much better that the municipality that owns the land can go in with these tools and say to them: You live illegally, you can't, now you get a command; if you don't listen, you get a fine, and if you still can't find out, then police report you. And why do we have to do this? For the simple reason that we in the Danish People's Party are interested in protecting the colonial garden tradition, which is a good tradition. It was very interesting to hear the historical, so that the Left was actually the author of the first colonial gardens in Denmark. I wasn't aware of that. Nor was I aware that it was Sweyn Auken who was the pioneer of the colonial law. It is of course interesting and the many reports from the other rapporteurs have been exciting to listen to. We are all interested in preserving the colonial garden tradition. It's gonna be harder and harder if we don't take action against all-year residence. And why? Yeah, 'cause it's gonna end up with the colonial gardens becoming some kind of summer cottages. And if they are first summer houses inside the cities, they must also be taxed as summer houses, and then you can start trading with them as summer houses, and then the price goes up, so ordinary people with low incomes will never have the opportunity to have a useful garden. After all, in some places in Copenhagen, colonial gardens are already sold for one and a half to two million kroner. In Copenhagen the development has already gone so far as to be a kind of summer house. We can't do that. Colony gardens are for the poor man or for the man or woman with little means so that they can have a useful garden when living in an apartment. It was never intended to be something on which money could be made, as has happened in Copenhagen. So only for this reason will you have to take action against the entire year's habitation. And, of course, some concerns have been raised that there are some people who do not fit in elsewhere and therefore must be allowed to live in a colonial garden. But that is not the right argument, because that problem has to be solved elsewhere. It is not the colonial gardens who have to solve that problem. A colonial garden is a useful garden that you have during the summer. I have, of course, received quite a variety of requests from garden association boards around the country, which are very concerned about this development, and they have all supported the need to do something. The Minister has also said that the Colonial League supports the matter, and I think it is really good that they are on our side. For then we can have legislation that is up-to-date and that provides the garden associations and, above all, the municipalities with the tools they need. From my own municipality, Odense, there is a great desire to clean up the mess. We have some garden associations that's about. 4-5 pieces fighting violently. It is a cultural struggle on a micro-level where they try to maintain the colonial gardens, as we know them, but where there are some certain types that build small palaces with large cellars, where they can then have all their stolen goods, and then they just get acted on in time and early. And the police come in and out, but they can't really do anything. The municipality will then hopefully in a year or two, when the law is in place, get some tools so that you can do something about it. So I am really glad that the Folketing so broadly supports doing something and has understood the purpose of the motion for a resolution. And once again, thank you to the government for its excellent cooperation. The minister has started well, I think, and works safely from the beginning. It can sometimes be difficult to enter as a minister in a course that has been going on for some time. But there have been no snitches in the waltz, and I think that really is a credit to the government. It has been a pleasure both for me as a politician and for the Danish People's Party as a small opposition party that one has been willing to listen and also help with a better solution than the one we could come forward with ourselves. So we look forward to having a proper account that everyone can see themselves in. And then we also look forward to the legislative work that the Ministry will carry out and hopefully have put forward in the autumn or perhaps spring 2023. It could be nice before the elections come in the spring of 2023, wouldn't it? So thank you for the debate. It's been very educational.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518152442	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518152454	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518152522	Today we are discussing B 148 which obliges the government to set up a working group of trade associations, drivers and relevant authorities, which, on the basis of the motion for a resolution, will make proposals for improvements to the conditions of Danish truck drivers and hauliers. I read the motion for a resolution as a contribution to the discussion on working conditions in the industry and the lack of drivers. This is an issue on which I myself am very concerned, and therefore it is also my view that we must of course look at whether the framework conditions can be improved responsibly. In this respect, the motion for a resolution constitutes a very concrete package of proposals so that there is something to be decided on, and there are good elements among us and at least good intentions. The government, for example, is a strong supporter of measures to strengthen road safety, and therefore would like to tighten up further with truck crossings on the motorway. The Government also agrees that the handling times of the Danish Road Traffic Authority should be reduced and that postal charges issued to foreign lorry drivers should also be paid and that they should be recovered effectively if payment is not made. However, we doubt that a working party is the right place to put our energies into action. In the same way, there are issues in some of the proposals where we on the part of the government are already in full swing. With the Green Conversion of Road Transport Agreement from December 2020, it was decided to analyse the efficiency potential by increasing the authorised gross weight and length. The work is already under way, as agreed, and seems to be very positive. But is it also necessary to set up a working group to discuss this issue from the outset? We do not think so by the government. However, there are also proposals on the palette in the proposal here, which the government cannot support. The working time rules for both employees and self-employed workers in the industry are thus in place for their sake and, moreover, are laid down in EU legislation. On principle, the government will not agree to try to tamper with them. The same applies when we look at the fines in this area. There are various important considerations behind them, such as road safety, and we should not take this lightly. There should be no doubt, however, that I have sympathy for the intentions behind the resolution, and we are also already focusing on several of the issues raised and must continue to do so. However, overall, the government has difficulty in supporting the resolution as it stands here, but I hope that we can continue to work on the initiatives that I have pointed out here and I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518152802	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518152805	Thank you. I will then sign for the Minister's introductory remarks on this motion for a resolution, but of course I think it is a little too bad that the Minister just pulls out a few sticks and says: Go or no go. Thank you for that! So, I am well aware that the Minister has not had a long time at the back as Minister for Transport, but all the bad things, the bad working conditions, both for drivers and road hauliers, the rule tyranny, you could use an uglier word • the unpaid parking tickets and all sorts of other things take up incredibly much. Doesn't the Minister recognize that it might take a little more than just to say, 'Well, let's take a look at that?' The problem is you haven't looked at this overall for years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518152853	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518152854	Yes, I do, and that is why initiatives have already been launched in several of the areas mentioned here, and I share, for example, as I said in my speech, the wish that we should have reduced the parking charges granted to foreign lorry drivers who are not paid. I fully agree with that and I would like to take it down as a minister, as I also said, when it comes to starting work on it. But starting to set up a working group to look at a broad palette of these different things, I don't think it's the most effective tool to address this. There are good people who are specialized in this area, and that is where I think we should send the task of collecting these taxes which are not paid, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518152943	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518152945	Now the Minister himself mentions the situation regarding the recovery of parking tickets, and the Minister says that the government has launched initiatives. That's right. One of the initiatives launched was that 621 parking tickets had to be cancelled in January because of the limitation period after the three-year period. They're mainly for foreign truck drivers. Is this the kind of initiative we just need more of? That is the kind of thing that provokes us, for example. Such a person as myself, who has a background in the transport sector, in other words that the initiatives are the wrong ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153022	No, I do not regard this as a solution to what is a real problem. There may be many other solutions, for example. There is an interplay between the authorities in the different countries. For example, there may also be a new way to pay these fines. So, no, to cancel the fines does not seem to me to be an initiative in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153045	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153047	It's just to follow up on Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby's efforts in this area, which is just about parking charges. It has been one of the major problems to have these taxes levied, and it is true that this system of collecting societies has been introduced, and it has certainly not worked. I think that an easy solution could be that in some way either the Department of Commerce equipped it, I do not know if you can exercise the same authority as the police, or you put the police on it, because they have the opportunity to issue immediate fines. I also think that the proposal made by the authors of the motion for a resolution to resort to clamping in this regard, that if the fine is not paid, the vehicle will be squeezed and withdrawn, if necessary, just as we do with illegal cabotage and such things. It could be worth considering.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153138	I fully agree that these could be good proposals, but the challenge with this resolution is that there is a whole range of different initiatives. I believe that the exact issue of the collection of fines is actually a very good proposal, and I believe that further initiatives in this area must be taken and further work is being done on various solutions. But the challenge when it comes to supporting the whole proposal here is that it contains so many different efforts, and that is why there is a desire to set up a working group to look at all these efforts at the same time, some of which have been set in motion. Some of it belongs to some other places where we can make it more effective, and that is why my proposal will also be to put a good report on it instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153218	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153219	I fully agree with that. That is also our problem with the motion for a resolution, because it is so extensive that there will soon be no side to road transport which it does not cover. There's a lot of bad things going on between us, at least that's what we think. I have the same approach to what the Minister has. But precisely this problem I can understand from the Minister one could well imagine was part of a possible report, because it is a huge problem in the truck industry at the moment, and that means that Danish trucks and hauliers will be put unequally in competition, because they will pay the fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153258	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153259	I have just looked at the latest figures on how many fines are paid by foreign drivers before I went over here in the Chamber, and that is certainly not uplifting reading. So I fully agree that something needs to be done about this area, it is an insult to the rules that apply in Denmark when you do not pay your fine, and therefore I am willing to look at all the good proposals on what to do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153320	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thanks to the Minister for Transport. Then it is the rapporteurs and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go, sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153331	Thank you, President. We are discussing the motion for a resolution to set up a working group to deliver recommendations to improve the conditions of Danish truck drivers and hauliers. It is a proposal that talks about the working conditions of the industry and the acute lack of drivers. It is an important discussion to have in relation to the industry's framework conditions, i.e. how they can be improved in a good way. In any case, the motion for a resolution has a number of concrete proposals. Now I am not going to list them all here, because there are 15 of them, but at least it is a wide range of themes and problems with which such a working group could work. It is about both parking conditions, toilet conditions and bathing conditions, on the recovery of parking charges, on the efficiency of the profession and on the reduction of processing times in the works council, on the control of compliance with rules, on the level of penalty rates and on truck handling. On the part of the Social Democrats, we find that there are some good elements in the proposal. Among other things: We would very much like to strengthen road safety for drivers and road hauliers, which is why we are also positive about tightening the rules for truck crossings on motorways, just as we fully agree with the proposers in relation to the desire to find solutions that can reduce the handling times of the Authority. This is something that the Danish Trade Administration is currently working on, and we are not entirely convinced, however, that a working group will be the best way to solve this problem. Similarly, we agree with the proposalers' intention that parking tickets issued to foreign lorries should be paid or recovered effectively. But here too we do not believe that a working party will be the right place to put its strength into action. Then there are a number of themes in the proposals where the government is already in the process. As part of the agreement on the green conversion of the transport sector, it was decided to explore the potential for efficiency by increasing the permissible gross weight and total length of trucks. This work is in full swing, so in this case too we believe that it does not make sense to set up a working group when the work is already in full swing. These are the parts in which we can, as a starting point, see good tactics, but then there are also a number of proposals that we cannot fully support. This concerns, among other things: on working time rules for both employees and self-employed workers. This is something in principle that we will not intervene in. The same applies to the area of fines. They are determined on the basis of a number of important considerations, such as road safety, which we consider to be an important consideration. So, to pick up, I would like to say that we in the Social Democratic Party share the intention to ensure good framework conditions for drivers and road hauliers. And we are happy to have the discussion on how to improve working conditions so that more people will want to take on a job in the industry. Both when it comes to road safety, processing times and the effective recovery of unpaid fines from foreign drivers, we think that these are really positive measures. There are many elements in the proposal to set up a working group, and although we see more good tactics, we do not believe that we are using the resources best by setting up a working group simply because we are taking action in several of the areas and because parts of the proposals for what the working group should be working towards are not something that we would be able to support. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution, and I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left and say that the Radical Left cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153713	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153715	Thank you. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur for the fact that, after all, the rapporteur is using his speaking time to mention some of the things that have been found and that we believe can be supported. However, I also think that perhaps the rapporteur is a little out on the sidelines when it comes to choosing to mention so many things and yet saying that there is no need for a working group. Do the Socialists really not recognise that for decades we have made it harder and harder to operate road haulage in Denmark and made it more difficult for drivers to know the rules on animal transport, driving-rest time, large rests, small rests, parking problems, fines and all sorts of other things? Can the rapporteur mention anywhere where there has been a very good improvement, because then I would like to have such a full list of it? Then I also think that when you hear the Socialists, they often say that it is important that we involve the social partners and that we want to make agreements with the social partners. Why, then, does the honorable working party not want to involve the industry in this particular case?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153820	Well, as we are asked here at the end and where it is about working time rules, it is something that concerns the worker and the employer; it is quite correctly understood. However, just when it comes to drivers driving around with tons of vehicles on the Danish roads, there is also a third person to be taken into account, and that is the other citizen, the other citizen, who will not be driven into by a large tons of heavy goods vehicle being carried by a tired driver. That is why it is with working time rules that there is also a road safety concern that we must take there, and we are therefore not prepared to go into gambling with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153859	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153901	But that is one of the points in the proposal, if the rapporteur reads all the pages through it ■ it is quite extensive; I recognise that the proposal, for example. We could be giving opportunities to those road hauliers or drivers who drive some means of transport, who have invested in the latest form of safety technology, brake robots and everything else, camera on the trucks and everything that the rapporteur knows very well is on the market. In that way, it would be possible to encourage road hauliers to drive in safer lorries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518153938	It would certainly be a good thing for everyone to invest in some vehicles that have the highest technological standard, but in the end it also depends on whether the driver behind the wheel stays awake and stays focused. Then I know that there are some aids that can help with this, but if the alarm clock does not strike, traffic could go terribly wrong, and we have seen some really, really bad examples, including E 45, which I know the rapporteur has been chosen in the vicinity and where we have seen a large concrete truck plowing up through a lot of passenger cars. These are terrible accidents, and we should not have more of them on the Danish roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518154023	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518154031	Thank you for that, President. There is no doubt that in the transport sector there are a number of challenges that are felt both by the road hauliers and by their drivers, and so I would like to thank my good colleagues Hans Kristian Skibby, Karina Adsbøl, Lise Bech, Liselott Blixt and Bent Bøgsted for putting forward this resolution. The proposal will oblige the government to set up a working group of trade associations, i.e. the transport operator, but also their drivers and the relevant authorities must be represented, and they must then put forward concrete proposals for improving the situation in the industry. I think that basically is a very good idea. Let me mention the lack of parking spaces for short breaks, daily resting along the state road network, which is a very big problem, which many of us receive mail about almost weekly; better toilet and bath conditions for drivers, it looks awkward in a number of places that are needed for improvements; the charges for foreign trucks that are not being recovered are pointed out; the very long processing times of the ferry administration with which we have worked, among other things. In consultation with the Minister, and there will soon be more consultation, and this situation is totally untenable, as has been pointed out here. Then there are the low-hanging fruits for proposals for efficiency in the road haulage industry, and it could be said that driving more on the engine is the heading, for example. 40 tonnes on 5 axles; double trailers, etc. I should like to mention here: access to competitive alternative fuels if we mean that we should have done something green in the transport sector; the working time rules for self-employed road hauliers are a challenge; and so few pitted the size of the penalty rates which are, as a whole, very overwhelming and which may help to prevent some drivers from being in the industry. So all in all, it is a bouquet of all good things from the sea, one might say, but I feel that the proposers have tried to gather together on what is moving and on the requests we receive, and I think that actually deserves respect. It may therefore be a good idea for us to set up a working group that sits together and takes stock of these areas, gets a status, gets a common understanding across the worker and employer, what the problem really is here, and a common understanding with the authorities and then arrives at an action plan on what we can do about it. In fact, I think that is a very good and sensible idea, and that is why the Left is in favour of this proposal. We are in favour of putting it in a report, if that is what we can do, and the report could actually be the basis of the working group we could choose to set up. It could be one exit. We are also willing to vote in favour of the proposal if it ends with a different reading on the matter. All in all, however, I would like to thank you for a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518154336	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518154340	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen has, of course, made a lot of sense with the handling times in the Danish Road Administration, which is a problem, not just for the truck industry, but in the road transport sector at all. But we have also been to a number of meetings at the Ministry of Transport, and we have heard at the Danish Transport Authority, and we have seen presentation of a series of slides about what is done and what is not done. I'm just thinking that I think that somehow the conclusion has been that the Department of Trade is on its way. They can't witches, they can't magic. So I would like to ask Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen on what to do more than what we have heard is actually going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518154427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518154428	But it is true that this is something we have worked on a great deal. I also know that the people down in Ribe in the Federal Services Agency are working on it. But you can always do more. In any case, it is important that there is a clear political signal that we want improvements and that improvements are needed. It must also be a clear signal that, if it is resources that are lacking, it is not a problem. For some fairly high fees are actually charged for the services to be provided. So this must not be a resource problem. That is why we need to keep putting political pressure for improvement. It is completely intolerable that some drivers should wait up to 9, perhaps 12 months before they can get out to drive a truck because they have some medical condition to check with a doctor or other conditions. We have to do something about that. It may be that you work hard with it, but then you have to work even harder. We need to figure this out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518154518	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518154519	I therefore agree that there are quite unreasonable conditions when drivers are going to have to wait so long to get the opportunity to drive if they, for example, are going to be able to drive. has some difficulty, as the rapporteur says. However, as I have at least heard from the meetings we have also shared, resources have been allocated, and there has been trouble, and work has been done on this and the new IT systems in the various areas are being put in place. You have to have them in place. So I ask again: what more do you want? As I understand it, you cannot add more resources than you have actually done or can you?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518154554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518154555	Well now I've had a long life in here now, and I've learned that it's a good idea to kick the ball all the way to the finish. It may be that we are heading towards the goal, and I have no doubt that we are, because some steps have been taken down there and it takes time to implement them, but we have to keep this political pressure on us to get some results. That is why I think it is a good thing that this working group, which I hope will be set up, is also dealing with this, so that we get the ball all the way to the finish line.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518154620	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. And I do not see the SF rapporteur in the Chamber, so the next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Here you go, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518154652	In these days it sometimes goes very fast, so one gets the word very quickly. This is basically a good game, and I don't want to say that it's all good from the sea, but it might rather call it bad and cinnamon. And we may then think that the proposal is most bad, and that is why we will not be supporting it either. But, of course, there are positive elements in it, and we would like to have a report on it. We just do not believe that we will agree on a joint report, so we will certainly make a contribution from our own report, pointing out the points in the proposal that we think are positive and good. I would say, in relation to what has already been said, that the industry is characterised by a lack of drivers: yes, it is true, it is. First of all, I believe that this has something to do with the working conditions offered, i.e. poor working conditions, poor wages, which was first and foremost created by the European Union, and the competition that has been imposed, if I may say so, by drivers from Eastern Europe, first and foremost, in other words, the whole question of cabotage and all that. It was created by the European Union. The EU originally had a strategy for further liberalisation; there should be hardly any restrictions as to where people could drive, and it did not matter what country they came from. The road package is moving in the other direction, so I think we are starting to move in the right direction. These are a great many proposals and we cannot comment on them all. I'll try to reach as many as I can. And then I will start with what we actually find positive among the proposals. I have already mentioned this in my correspondence with the Minister for Transport, i.e. the effective recovery of parking charges from foreign lorries. I fully agree, and I fully agree with the proposal to be able to involve vehicles on an equal footing with what can be done in the case of cabotage. And that's where I think, 'cause the Department of Commerce isn't equipped with the possibilities that you have to have the police on the field anymore. As you know, I have not been a strong supporter of the transfer of resources that has taken place from the police to the Customs Authority. The only problem, if you had to have the police back on track, is of course that it might be difficult to maintain the pressure of control which has also made the problem very, very clear, in that first the Road Directorate and later the Administration took over this, i.e. because the police are being used for so many other things. And in this respect, I agree that truck parking fees and such things are not a task for the Danish Road Safety Authority, but I think I was able to say that as well. We also believe that there should be stronger controls on foreign vans, as has also been proposed, and that foreign vans should be covered by rules on, for example. cabotage services. And there is also a proposal that they should be subject to a kilometre-based tax. We are actually negotiating that right now, and that is certainly the wish of the Enhedslisten. Whether we can get through with this, I cannot say at this stage, but we do think it is a good proposal which will help to combat social dumping and unfair competition in that sector. But I could ask you back a little tricky: why have we recently been involved in maintaining, for example, the situation here? The 11-kilos rule, when abolishing it would also help to combat social dumping in the area of goods vehicles? I cannot understand that there is no connection with that and, at the same time, the weight limit has been raised, so that fewer vans are subject to the licensing requirement. In my opinion, this is a step in the opposite direction and is weakening the fight against social dumping in this area. Then there are proposals for checking 45-hour rest. I fully agree with that. This has been a problem for a long time and must be tackled. In this context, accommodation facilities will be discussed. There is also the proposal to take action against these elephants, and in addition to what is proposed by the proposers, one could also imagine that there is a time-limit ban, for example. Between 8:00 a.m. 6:00 in the morning and 6:00 in the morning. 18 in the evening, just everywhere. Now, those were some of the things we thought were good, and then there are not too many seconds left to comment on the proposals we are not so fond of. But one of them, of course, concerns the lack of parking spaces. We therefore think, first and foremost, that this is the industry's problem and that the industry here must go to its pockets. In our opinion, this is not a state matter. The same applies to the better toilet and bath facilities. Yeah, okay for better toilet facilities; we think that's okay, but not necessarily aimed at truck drivers. But not at all yes to the bathing facilities; we do not think that is a state task. Then I am sorry that I am unable to comment on all the other proposals that we do not agree with, but that is how the rules are in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155210	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155214	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hyllested used the term "dirty and cinnamon" to describe the long list of specific sub-proposals here. I just want to know if Enhedslisten is in on it if, in connection with a report, one could agree to select the things we should be working on. And even if there should be a single proposal where Enhedslisten does not agree with the objective, it is probably always good that a working group deals with it, takes stock and gets a common understanding of it. Then you have to see what happens after that. But that does not prevent a working party from looking at things and getting to where action is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155255	That is, of course, true, and we will be positive about it as well, but we just believe that there are a number of proposals and it was they that I did not manage to comment on that we do not want to support at all. Of course, we do not think it necessary for a working party to deal with this. That is a little why we cannot support the proposal in its entirety to set up this working group. However, I am, of course, completely open to what a committee procedure can give in the direction of agreeing on a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155328	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155329	After all, we are not talking about a huge commission that is going to work for months with huge fees and something like that. We are talking about a working group in which the various relevant parties put one or two people in a discussion on this. I just want to try to keep Enhedslisten up on whether it's not always positive. It may well be that there is an issue on which the worker and the employer disagree, but that is fine, because then you will have a discussion on it and a common understanding, and you may find solutions that no one has thought of. I would therefore like to ask again: could it not be a good idea to land such a report where we agree on a working basis for a working group?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155405	It really depends on what that report will look like. We do not want to add votes to the fact that a working party is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen calls it a commission... can spend a terribly long time on it. After all, we have had working groups, not least on the question of social dumping, third country driving, the Filipino case from Padborg, etc. and so on, and really sensible things have come out of it. But a working party to deal with, if I may say so, road transport as a whole does not think we will be a fast-working committee at least not as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155444	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155445	Thank you. I would say that it would have surprised me, too, if Mr. Henning Hyllested would stand like this in the chair and even cheer over all these proposals, but it is a proposal that I have worked on for a long time because I think it is important to give a snapshot of what the whole industry looks like, both in relation to employers, but certainly also in relation to employees, as well as to feel Danish employees, in these companies. After all, many of them also find it difficult to recruit staff. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned that it was because there was poor pay. No, actually, I don't think so. In fact, I believe that Danish drivers are getting a good enough salary, and that is in relation to both collective agreements, competition considerations and everything else. What concerns cabotage and foreign drivers is another matter. But here it is basically about us wanting this to be a good profession, also in relation to being employed there. As a Danish road haulage operator, you also have to run a good business without more or less having to be forced to be extremely creative in relation to the legislation in force. Does Enhedslisten really not recognise that there has been a drain for many years compared to the good work in the transport industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155558	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the thorough work which clearly lies behind the motion for a resolution. I think that is very good and, as I have said several times, it is almost all-embracing in relation to the transport sector. In fact, we believe that, in terms of the pay and working conditions in the truck industry for drivers, and for that matter also for road hauliers, there is pressure, and this is due to the whole liberalisation that has taken place, where, after all, the road package, as I said, is now slowing down and pulling the other way, but there is no doubt that it has brought unfair competition to the industry. That is also why I say that part of the lack of drivers is about being as pressured as you are, in terms of working conditions and wage conditions. I do not really know if we will then agree on that in connection with perhaps making a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155654	Sir. Hans Kristian Skibby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155655	No, and maybe that's where things get a good divorce. If you look at the Vejdirektoratet's reports back from 2009 I know that it was many years ago that there was an inventory of how the surface of the main Danish road network's parking spaces for truck trains worked out that at night there was a coating of more than 400 per cent. Nevertheless, we have a situation today, in 2022, where we have got these 50 million. kr. I'd like to say that is something I've fought for myself, but it's not enough. Does the rapporteur not recognize this as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155735	Yes, and I know the figure of 400 per cent, and of course it's a massive overlay. I'm just saying, and after all, I also managed to say and comment that it is not, in my best opinion, a government task to provide long-term parking for trucks. It must be the industry itself that must contribute here, which itself must contribute to the pockets. It is part of the framework conditions for the industry, and they must therefore contribute to this themselves. The truck industry, the truck transport sector, is already heavily subsidised if you look at what externalities are imposed on society by lorries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155813	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518155822	Thank you very much for that and I shall try to make my speech a little shorter than the five minutes that my predecessor here spent. This morning we had a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten, where, when I read it last Thursday, I was falling off the chair. Afterwards I read this excellent motion for a resolution, and I stood up and raised my back and was about to salute the authors of the motions, Hans Kristian Skibby, Karina Adsbøl, Lise Bech, Liselott Blixt and Bent Bøgsted, and a thousand, a thousand thanks for it. It is not a secret, and it is also a great pleasure to look at the openness that has come from the Ministry of Transport for the last few years. After all, we had a meeting with the aviation industry, where we gathered all the players and got a good overview of how and how the market looked and, most recently, when we had a meeting with the current Transport Minister, we looked at how we get people to work in the transport industry, and a thousand, a thousand thanks for that openness. I think this is very, very much in line with the openness that we have seen lately, and it is the industry that is gathering together, both the employers, the workers, the interest organisations and the relevant authorities, I assume, and sit down and discuss, and then they come to us with a proposal. There's no way you can mind that. At least I don't see it. Therefore, we will support the proposal and, if it cannot be adopted, we will look very positively at landing it in a report. But once again, thank you very much for the good suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160006	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur. We can move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160017	Thank you, President. Since the foundation of the party, the Danish People's Party has worked to improve the conditions of drivers and the conditions of the export and transport companies, in which it has sometimes been difficult for them to behave, for example. because of unequal competition from abroad. We support a report in committee, which several people have also spoken about, in order to find out how to set up a working group, and I should like to welcome from the new citizens and say that they also support a report in committee on the setting up of a working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160059	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is for Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160103	I'm gonna have to arrest sir. Alex Ahrendtsen's remark that the Danish People's Party has supported the fight against social dumping. That is partly true, but lately we have seen the other way. It is then in relation to vans, but it is an important part of road transport, where you have stuck to the 11-kilos rule. In fact, the Danish People's Party was in favour of that rule at the time and where you have raised the weight limits for the vans, so fewer vans are covered by the permit requirement. After all, both are things that would help to combat social dumping, so lately I think that the image of the Danish People's Party, which fights social dumping on the road, has become a bit shattered.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160203	I did not mention social dumping in my speech. I mentioned that the Danish People's Party has always supported drivers and the export industry, and the two things have to be balanced. Without an export business and successful businesses, no drivers, and if there is no driver, there is no export business either. So I guess it's connected, and that's why we've always supported the profession, so I don't quite understand the objection.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160230	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160232	No, but now you don't have to tone it down. In fact, the Danish People's Party has been an active player for some time back. The Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti have actually worked very closely together in the fight against social dumping on the road. The former rapporteur in the field of Kim Christiansen was an excellent comrade, if I may say so, in the game there, certainly, and that is also why I am sorry that I think there are changed signals from the Danish People's Party in this area. This has happened in the case of vans, and I think that is a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160307	There are no changed signals. The party's line is perfectly clear, and that is why we support a report on setting up a working group. I can then understand on the Enhedslisten that you will not be involved in setting up a working group, and then the listeners and viewers can then make up for themselves who really supports the drivers most: Enhedslisten or Dansk Folkeparti. I think the last one.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160331	Then it's mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160333	Thank you very much. And thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen for the speech. I really have a great deal of respect for the speaker, also because I have had an experience that he has quickly touched on transport, on which he is the new rapporteur, and thank you for that. A quick question: you support a report, but you do not support the resolution. Can the rapporteur try to put a few words on it, so why one and not the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160403	If the resolution is put to the vote, this is a different matter, but I assume that the parties will aim for a report, which is often a good thing, because then we can bet that we can convince some of the government's support parties that we need to set up a working group. I think that is the best way to proceed. Perhaps we can convince Enhedslisten that this is a good idea, so Enhedslisten can show up as a party that will also protect Danish drivers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160438	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160439	Oh, I'd like to say there's a relatively long way to go from here. But let it go. So that's it, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen says that if it should come to the vote, you will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160453	We in the parliamentary group haven't decided yet. When we know whether the motion for a resolution will be put to the vote, we will, of course, make our position known. We prefer a report; we think that is clearly the best thing in this case, especially if we can convince Enhedslisten • the hope is bright green • that we should make a report. But it is not up to us to get that work started. It may be that Mr. Henning Hyllested can find some new comrades.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160531	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. And then we can give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518160542	I would therefore like to thank, on behalf of the Gæs and Gaser working group, which some of you may have heard about, for today's debate on the motion for a resolution which has been under discussion. I really think that the debate has been quite fine. I would say that it may not come as a surprise that we will not get a majority in favour of it as such. I would have liked it, but, on the other hand, I am also aware of the government's approach to resolutions from the opposition, and I am also aware of the twist of the hands of some parties that this is not very nice. The latter is probably where it lies, because it actually means that if you choose to vote for this motion for a resolution, you will also have a bit of your own hands on the hot plate in recognising and recognizing that, for many, many years, I would say decades, we in the Danish Parliament have introduced not regulatory simplifications and not the dismantling of bad things, but we have in fact introduced a large number of bad regulations on the implementation of truck and freight services, the growth conditions of the road haulage industry in Denmark and, above all, the ability of drivers and employees to do their job without being afraid of having to pay heavy fines, for example. to ride with live pigs. One of the newest things we have seen is that it is the individual driver who suddenly, after a change in an announcement made by a former minister, stood with the beard in the mailbox. But that does not change the fact that if you support this motion for a resolution, you are also helping to recognise the ownership of past sins; you will also help to recognise that you have perhaps helped to make some decisions that might actually sound good enough and to be right, but when you look at it in 2022, there are just a number of places where it has moved in the wrong direction. It is no secret that I myself have a background as a freight forwarder and have worked in the transport sector in the past, and although it was many years ago, I have to say that I do not have a clear picture that it has become much better and especially not since we entered the internal market, although it has been many years ago. That is why this is a proposal which, on the one hand, has had to prove that there are very many good places to bid, including improvements in legislation and regulations, traffic rules, everything else, without starting to use the European Union as a great excuse and saying that we must not do that for Mother Europe or for others. There is actually a chance to do a lot if we want to. But this is not the first time that we have seen a government feel called to say casually that it may well be that there are very many good elements in the proposal, but it comes from the opposition, so we do not support that. You can then have an opinion on that, but I just think it is a shame, because I have not put it forward to polish my own halo or to say that the blues are better than the reds I have done, because I believe that we can make the industry better, both the internal competition in Denmark, but also in relation to both employees and hauliers in a collaboration. So it has nothing to do with some proposals where you will come and trick one group against the other. I think it is striking that the parties that typically say no today do not know what the SF is saying yet, but I live in the hope that these workers-oriented parties believe that they should wear red tabs on 1 May and all sorts of other things, those who are in favour of the social partners' cooperation and negotiation, they are the ones who believe that there is no basis for a cooperative debate on the whole Danish transport industry attractive to Danish workers who think it would be exciting to enter this industry. In fact, today we find it difficult to recruit Danish truck drivers on proper Danish salary terms in Danish companies, with Danish drivers on Danish license plates, with trailers registered in Denmark. Then why is that? It is because some of them feel so exposed to really, really bad working conditions, they feel they are being overburdened, they feel that the traffic rules, not in relation to driving the car, because they may find out, but in relation to all these rules that we have gradually introduced with little rest, great rest and everything else that definitely contains a lot of good initiatives too, because I fully agree that we should not destroy Danish road safety, but we should at least be able to offer some rules that, overall, seem proper and also explanatory. That is actually what I think is the very best way to achieve something without making it all such a political battlefield, so know, as we propose in this motion for a resolution, to let the social partners come along, let the trade associations, 3F, the trade unions, which organise Danish drivers, come along, let some of the major freight forwarders, ITD, Danske Langtursvognmand, DTL and others come along and join a community where you look at all the proposals contained in this motion for a resolution, but certainly also on a large number of other proposals that could come up if you let this dialogue get under way. And I actually think that if you go out and ask the industry and the employees and the trade union if they do not have any very good suggestions on how to improve their working conditions, you will have a long, long list, even longer than these 15, some will say 16 specific proposals, which are contained in this resolution. These are some that I have spoken to after countless meetings with people and with conversations and inquiries from both drivers and road hauliers and industry organisations. So it is not the case that it should be a funeral speech, and I am, in fact, glad that we have had the debate, and I believe that if nothing else we can find a report that might move things the right way, and several of the rapporteurs have mentioned that. But I just think that the very best thing to do in politics is to get to grips with the root of the nettle and go in and look at the individual elements, and then take them one by one, so what speaks for what speaks against, pro a contra and then you actually find something where you could come in harmony and harmony. But that's not what's up with this. Now it's kind of like some run into the flagpole and others jump into the crawlspace, and I think that's too bad. But now we have to see what the negotiations are about. Now, of course, we will send it back to committee and I will certainly not deny that it will be put to the vote at second reading before we finish, if we have the opportunity to do so. But I would also like to see us find a report which can at least move things a little in the right direction, and then we can always hope that some of those who have the majority today may get a little better. A few years ago we made an agreement, and it was then under the previous government, where we had some challenges under the Danish Ministry of Business, where they from the Danish pharmaceutical industry and life science and such things relied on that they had a problem with that it was difficult when you had to have processes through the Danish Parliament and through ministries. Yes, open and closed doors were then met in a slightly different way with the same concrete proposals, because in relation to some of the things there was a barrier in the Ministry of Industry, and in relation to others it was in another ministry, for example. at the Ministry of the Environment or at the Ministry of Employment or at the Ministry of Research. Then they chose to create a life science centre, a very small office, where they try to link things together over in the Ministry of Business, and where then today there are a few people sitting, I think it is eight pieces or there around there that coordinate the things that go in over several ministries, and try to do things better. The evaluations I have received from Danish companies that work in this area and many of them are therefore in the field of exports say that it has become much, much better and that it has become much, much faster and that it can both get through to the Folketing, but also to the ministers and for approval in the ministries. Wouldn't you imagine that some of the same thing was done here? Because if the majority group does not want to support something like this, then I hope that it will be very exciting to have the Minister of Transport set up a driving office over at the Minister's office. In fact, I think it will be an eye-opener for the Minister, who, when the Minister took office, has himself said that some time should be devoted to getting involved in transport. It might be an eye-opener if you went a little offensively into that work. But thank you for the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518161551	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518161554	Yes, but what we are doing, and the reason why we are critical of at least some of the proposals, is, of course, that we go in and look at the terms of the individual proposals. And that is where we find it interesting, because in general we can agree with this. Of course we can sit down and discuss things. But it doesn't matter what kind of premises are used. Take, for example. the proposal to exploit the low-hanging fruits by increasing efficiency, which was one of those I did not manage to comment on. And I was really happy when I just saw the headline, so I thought, "Oh, my God, I'm totally into that in real life. However, it is a question of increasing the weight limit from 32 to 40 tonnes and regulating the number of axles, etc. etc. to save a number of trucks. It is, of course, the same argument that we hear about modular trains and double trailers and that sort of thing. All honour and respect for it, but it is the case that there is a poor use already of the existing semi-trailers and containers and what else is there. So in the EU there is 25 per cent empty driving, and that is only 56 per cent. of the Danish road transport site which has been used. So there we thought it would be much better to take action instead of increasing weight limits and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518161712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518161713	Now I'm not from Enhedslisten, but I think it's kind of weird if you have an approach to Danish international transport, which states that there must be equal numbers of 20-foot containers, equal numbers of 40-foot containers and equal numbers of refrigerated vehicles that drive in and out of Denmark. That's just not the reality. Denmark is actually a net exporter country and we live on trade in goods. We're such a grocery nation. That is actually what has made us today one of the countries in which free and equal access to universities and hospitals can be offered and where there is also su for the young people who want to go to the café. It costs money. And that's why there's probably a little bigger exports, and I don't really think you should be sorry about that. And when you say there are some containers running empty, well there has been, ever since the Ruder King was a kid, I almost said. Well, there's nothing new about that. So I don't think that's a valid comparison, I have to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518161810	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518161811	No, but it's all about limiting the volume of empty driving and utilizing your cubic meter as well as possible. And there it hasn't really moved that way since the end of the '00s, it has clearly moved and capacity is being used better today. But it's still not good enough when you only use 56-57 per cent. of the space available and reaches 25 per cent. of all road transport in the EU is empty driving, which could be used instead. In other words, this is something that the rapporteur has a great deal of knowledge about: having fleet management programmes that can do something more than what they seem to be able to do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518161853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518161854	I can at least agree with the rapporteur on this last point, and we both have a past at the port in just two different cities. But I would have liked us to have been in the same place, because I know the rapporteur as a very good colleague in here, so the rapporteur would have been at the port of Horsens instead of at the port of Esbjerg. But that doesn't change the fact that we don't get into such an equal opportunities situation where we can compare those net numbers. There I still hope that we will have more focus on collecting currency and generating economic profits for Denmark than on whether the cars that drive around are completely or half full.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518161932	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220518161950	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 19 May 2022, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
