ParlaMint-DK_20220303100001	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303100009	Ladies and gentlemen, before addressing the actual agenda of the sitting, I would like to say a few words about Ukraine. On this occasion, we have invited the Ukrainian Ambassador to attend the meeting. Collapse from the Chamber The situation in Ukraine casts a heavy shadow over the time we live in. The free world has followed with shock and horror the Russian invasion in Ukraine. Similar events emerge from history: Hungary 1956, Czechoslovakia 1968. At that time there was the struggle between freedom and oppression. The violent fighting in Ukraine has been going on for a week now. Unfortunately, we have received reports of many killed Ukrainians, both soldiers and civilians. There is now war on European soil; a situation that we did not believe was possible. Right now, while we're sitting here, massive Russian forces are gathering at Kyiv's gates. It seems scary, completely unreal. Far over half a million women, children and the elderly have been driven from the horrors of war. A peaceful people have been punished for following their own path. But we must remember that it is not only Ukraine that has gone to war with Russia. Russia has also aimed the guns at fundamental values in democratic societies: freedom, democracy and national self-determination. The international legal order, in which countries respect each other and try to talk about what separates them, has been put out of effect. That's why Ukraine's fight is also our fight. We reject the right of the strong to enforce his will just because he can. War is contempt for life, peace is to create. We admire the courage and determination of the Ukrainian people. They have shown an irrefutable will to defy the Russian supremacy. But they should also know that they are not alone. The strong Danish, European and international condemnation of Russia is absolutely appropriate. That is why Denmark also has a voice in this card. Together with our allies and partners, we are doing what we can to prevent Russia's aggressive behaviour. I think we should make a joint appeal to Russia: withdraw your troops and find a peaceful solution to the conflict. And then we have to remember that the war has been started by Putin, not by the Russian people. I think we should hope that the Russian people will put maximum pressure on Putin to put him out of the war. Denmark is united with Ukraine and therefore today Ukraine's blue-yellow flag hangs side by side with Dannebrog at the main staircase of the Danish Parliament; in itself a small gesture, but a strong symbol of the close ties that exist between Denmark and Ukraine. Your Excellency, Ambassador, it is a great honor for us to have you as our guest today. The members of the Danish parliament want to express our support to the Ukrainian people. We slowly hope for a peaceful solution in your country. You can be sure that Denmark stands with you. I think that once again we should break the rules of the Folketing and stand up and applaud. Collapsalver from the Chamber The Ukrainian Ambassador thanks the Danish Parliament for its place in the gallery Klapsalver from the Chamber Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for that. We will take a short break in a few minutes before we start voting so that those who have to leave the Chamber can do so quietly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303100752	The transition may be difficult, but the sitting is resumed and we are now embarking on the agenda. No amendments have been tabled. The debate is open. The first to speak is the chairman of the Committee on Employment, Mr President. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democrat, for an oral recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303100813	Thank you. Back to normal Parliamentary work. I can say quite peacefully that there has been a regrettable mistake the last time things dealt with this law. At second reading it was said that it had to go back to committee. It has been. We've been looking at it, but we haven't done anything about it. Everything is fine, so I can recommend the High Things and its Members confidently to proceed with the reading here at the third reading today and the vote that was envisaged at the last round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303100842	I just need to know if it's true that Mr. Knox... Thomas Jensen wants to speak? It's not. So I'm gonna need to know if anyone else wants to make a statement? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303100857	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. Are there any technical problems? There is. We're just gonna have to deal with some technical problems. Then it should be okay. And we are in the process of voting on Bill No. L 104 for final adoption. The vote will end. In favour of 81 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, FG, ALT and Orla Østerby (UFG)), against 19 (KF, DF, NB, LA, Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101137	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left, does. But it's for the bill itself. Good. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101201	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 outside the supplementary report adopted by the Minister for Justice. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101208	And then the debate is about the bill as a whole. Here you go, Mrs. Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101215	Thank you very much, President. Much has already been said on this matter. A number of questions have been asked and answered in this case, but that does not prevent me from speaking again, because I do not think there has been any sensitivity from much of the Parliamentary Chamber. We have a Justice Minister, as well as in this question about logging openly said: Surveillance gives freedom. And with the vote in a few minutes it will be official, by the most extensive monitoring of Danish history, will continue. The question of logging can be difficult to access and it is easy to get lost in technical terms, but if we cut right into the leg, it is obvious that there is something rather fundamental at stake. It is about the fundamental rights of the citizens. And, of course, the Minister of Justice has an open opinion that increased surveillance gives freedom to make a statement which, by the way, makes it run cold down my back, but that also means that there is not so much to do by appealing to that side of the Chamber. But I would say to my colleagues in the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, that I am disappointed. I had hoped that a party with the same liberal freedom-loving background as the Radical Left could have been an alliance partner on this particular issue, because our parties are based on the same philosophical and political foundations: that all people are born free and equal in dignity and rights and that this means that human rights cannot be chosen and rejected, whether they are convenient politically or inconveniently, or whatever else one might think of the right-holder. We have just approved the amendment tabled by the Minister, and I am very pleased that the amendment was tabled which postpones the date of entry into force of the legislation, because, as was the case in the past, doubts had been raised, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that the Council has not yet taken a decision on this matter. There is, in fact, a pending case in which the government is a party to the proceedings, and it would therefore have been very strange if we, as Parliament, adopted legislation which meant that in that case the appellant would lose its legal interest and the case would therefore be put down. So I am glad that, after all, as far as the date of entry into force is concerned, there has been sensitivity and that it is in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101509	There is a brief comment. Sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101512	Thank you, and I have heard what the Radicals think about logging, and I have heard that from some of the consultations and technical reviews that we have had, and it is all right that this is the position of the Radical Left. I just think that there is a facet that is not really addressed here, namely that we should be careful that we do not handicap the police, in relation to solving serious crime in Denmark. I would like to hear Mrs Samira Nawa there whether the Radicals are not concerned, for example, with the fact that they are not concerned. As in the case of Aalborg with Mia being killed, the police very quickly have every opportunity, every means, to find out who killed him. Does the Radical Left remember that? Does the Radical Left remember this to the government and the proposal for logging that lies there and also for the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101606	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101608	Thank you for the opportunity to make this quite clear: of course we have an awareness that police work and clarification must also be able to take place very quickly and effectively. Other European countries have, of course, drawn up their rules on logging in a way that actually complies with EU law. There you can see that the rate of detection in relation to crime has not fallen, and that is why the two things are not going to conflict: that we are adapting our legislation so that it is legal, so to speak, and that the police can also do their job, and that the rate of detection does not fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101655	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101656	I would like to be convinced that the Radicals are right in saying that the police are not handicapped in relation to the current situation. I can say that we on the part of the Danish People's Party are completely watchdogs that we keep all the tools in the hands of the police. I can only note from the vote of the Radicals on this matter that that is not what the Radicals stand for. I would just like to repeat the question: will the Radicals help to ensure that in future, too, we have all the tools on the shelves of the police so that they can quickly solve murders, kidnapping cases and other serious police cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101734	Samira Nawa, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101737	Yes, the Radical Left is interested in the fact that the police have a great many and effective tools for solving this problem. But our two parties, sir. Peter Skaarup, has a different view of the European Union and the European Court of Justice. There we just feel that when there is a judgment, the Danish side must, of course, also adapt the legislation to it. When the European Union says that logging must be targeted, it is of no use that, in a Danish context, when we target logging, logging and monitoring 3.9 million citizens. There is not much determination about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101811	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101813	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Samira Nawa says that we must comply with the ruling of the European Court of Justice, but that is really why we are dealing with this bill. That is because there is a judgment that we in the Folketing and in the government have listened to, and that is why we have tabled this bill. So I would actually just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the legislative proposal we are dealing with now is within the scope of the directive as far as the European Court of Justice is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101839	- Sir, you can. Bjørn Brandenborg doesn't make me confirm, because what's written into this bill is that there's a significant process risk. I have repeatedly asked: what does this mean by a significant process risk? What is the likelihood that with the new Danish legislation, which was intended to correct the illegal rules that are currently in place, we will have a new judgment on our necks and will have to change our legislation once again? I have not been able to get a clear answer to that. So I can't confirm it, as sir. Bjørn Brandenborg asks me to confirm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101921	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101922	That is, of course, a pity, because I really think it has to be said that this draft law has been very well debated. There have been many consultations on this, and I think 150 questions have been asked. After all, all the questions put by the rapporteur have been answered. However, perhaps the rapporteur will confirm that the Ministry of Justice considers that this bill is within the framework of the ruling of the European Court of Justice. That is why it is the rapporteur's claim that it should not be. The government has listened to the ruling of the European Court of Justice and has made a legislative proposal that is within the framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303101958	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102000	The reason why we have to deal with this at all is that there is a ruling by the European Court of Justice that says that we need new legislation and new rules as soon as possible. However, the draft law continues to state what a large part of the House is going to adopt in a little while that there is a significant procedural risk. I am therefore aware of this for the first time in a legislative proposal. There is not only a process risk or a certain process risk, but a significant procedural risk that this legislation too will be found to be illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102035	Mrs Britt Baker, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102038	Thank you. I am actually quite concerned when Mrs Samira Nawa is claiming that the police can solve the same crimes completely without teleloging, because this shows that the rapporteur has by no means followed the work that is going on and has by no means listened to what the police have said in the discussions and in the hearing we have had. The police have made it quite clear that this is a tool they use in their investigation, that it is an essential tool and that it is also a tool which alone has led to a conviction of murder, among other things. On a Syrian woman. Does the rapporteur not have the impression that the police are so clear and say that this is an essential tool in the investigation work?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102131	Then Mrs Britt Baker has not listened well enough, because we are not in the Radical Left against logging; we are against the general, undifferentiated logging; we are against the fact that targeted logging includes as much of the population as is the case. This is something we have asked about during the legislative process, so it is wrong to claim that it is logging in general that we should be opposed to. But when it is undifferentiated, when it is the whole of the general public, when it is a continuation of the practice that we are more or less having today, yes, we are opponents, because there is an EU judgment that I had hoped Conservatives would also take seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102214	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102215	But that's exactly why we're making this change. That's exactly why we're making this change with the bill. If we had not done so, yes, there would have been a dispute over the quite incomprehensible judgment of the European Court of Justice, by the way. That is why we are making this amendment and the rapporteur must be able to confirm it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102239	The bill here comes because we have to make a change. Whether that change is true or not, we do not agree. Mrs Britt Baker also reveals, with her comment, that the EU judgment is inconvenient. And I just have to say that I have a different respect for what comes from the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102257	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102300	Thank you. I have to follow up on Mrs Britt Baker's question, because I am completely on the floor. May I ask the rapporteur: has the rapporteur read the answers to questions 14, 22, 23, 29, 30, 31 and 32? I think the rapporteur does, because the rapporteur is diligent. Then the rapporteur will also be able to confirm that it is the National Police who speaks out and what is the National Police saying then? Yes, they say there will be serious crimes that can no longer be solved. The police's ability to catch criminals for serious crimes is being undermined here, specifically mention are being made of rapists, murderers, arsonists, and I could supplement with a host of other examples. How does the rapporteur feel about the fact that, if the Radicals had a majority in this House, we would no longer be able to catch the criminals in question and bring them to justice? Sir. Peter Skaarup mentions the technology in the Aalborg case. Does the rapporteur not have any doubts about the fact that if the Radicals get a majority here, such a thing will be a matter of research?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102404	No, because what we are saying is not that the police should not be able to do their job, that the police should not have the tools they need to solve the crimes that are also being committed in this society. But we have to take care of that, and there I had really hoped for Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen as a strong, strong liberal alliance partner in this • that we don't get massive surveillance of our people and that we don't continue illegal practices and mass surveillance of the population. In any case, I had imagined that a liberal party like the Left had also settled.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102443	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102445	Now it is said that the police must have the tools that are needed, but that is precisely what radically is being taken away from the police with the radical attitude. The Radicals will not have the logging they are voting against this proposal, even if it is reduced. In relation to the situation we have today, the police are, of course, taken away from the very, very central options if you do not have them. And I can inform the rapporteur that we are dealing with thousands of cases a year. It's in the roughest cases, it's in the most serious cases, it's murder, it's arson, it's where the police use this information in the evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102520	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102521	Well, it is simply not right to say that we should be opposed to the police being able to do their clearing work. We are opposed to massive surveillance of citizens who are not criminals. Fortunately, this is the case in Danish society; not everyone goes around and is a criminal. There are also opportunities for emergency insurance. And as I pointed out to Mr. Peter Skaarup earlier, we see in other European countries that correct their legislation that the police's clearance rate does not fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102552	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Samira Nawa. And the next person who has asked to speak is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102602	Thank you. It is not because I have to repeat the long process we have been through, because we have really had a lot of debate on this in committee. However, I do need to say that we in the SF are not in favour of the legislative proposal that lies here, because this requires the extensive monitoring of Danes' data, it extends the area of crime and it maintains a very, very long erase period for these data which are being collected. And then we have serious doubts as to whether the new rules are legal. The current rules, as the Minister for Justice says in a reply to a meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, are similar to the new ones, and the current rules have already been overruled by EU law. So it is difficult to see that there will not be a huge risk here too, and the Minister himself acknowledges this, because they say that there is a significant risk to the process, and that is therefore an expression that we do not hear often. I sometimes find that there is a process risk, but not a significant process risk. And this is a proposal which has been criticised by a large number of organisations. It is not because we in the SF do not recognise that logging data can be important in an investigation. Perhaps we would have preferred Denmark to have moved more to emergency insurance. You could have used that in the Mia case if you wanted to. And it also emerged in the Folketing during the hearing on the logging rules themselves that other European countries which have corrected their legislation have not experienced any lower detection rates. So we believe that there is a different path than this one that the majority chooses to go. So consideration of police investigations and effectiveness is not the only consideration that needs to be addressed when making legislation. That is important, yes, but there is also a concern for citizens' freedoms in a democracy, and that balance does not seem to us to be observed in this draft law. On the other hand, I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for meeting the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten at the conciliation meeting with a modified date of entry into force. In fact, we think that it is unworthy in a democracy that Parliament should be pushed forward and made legislation so that, in principle, a small association which has brought an action will not be able to deal with their case. We have now closed this issue with this amendment, which we have just adopted, and we think that is very good. We can also understand that it has been asked to give up the claim that the association should not have dealt with their case because they will no longer have a legal interest as a result of the adoption of new rules. So we think that is strong and good, but we will have to say no to the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102916	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no wish for short remarks, and that means that we move on to Mrs Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303102925	Thank you very much. From Enhedslisten's side, we're incredibly in agreement with Radicals and SF on this issue, so I'm not going to prolong it that much either. However, I would like to start by thanking the Minister for actually accepting this amendment that we have voted on today. I think it's really important that it gets in place that this trial gets to run. I am very pleased that this is being corrected and that we arrived at it. However, in relation to the whole complex, which concerns the logging of our citizens, this is something that we in the Enhedslisten have been very critical of for very many years, because a completely systematic and general monitoring of the Danish population is simply not in line with human rights. This means that it is a monitoring of all of us who do not live up to absolutely fundamental rights that citizens must be free and allowed to have privacy. And that is what is at stake here, and it is very, very sad that the Danish Parliament is today adopting a new legislation which is completely similar to the old one, which does not correct anything at all, even though there is a massive basis on which to say that it is wrong with the old legislation. And even though the government itself has been out to say, that is why they are putting forward something new, you are actually coming at exactly the same time. And I have never tried to adopt a legislative proposal in which it was so clearly all legal experts who said: this is actually not good enough. Nor does it live up to EU rules, and the draft law also says that there is a very high probability that it is not exactly so I am really sorry, and we in the Enhedslist are very much opposed to this continuing, to the best of my knowledge, the illegal logging practices that are being carried out. But I am glad that we will at least have the opportunity to have that trial played out, and then we will have to see how it falls out. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303103120	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I need to know if there are any more people who want to speak. As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303103128	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. Then I think that everyone has had the opportunity to cast their vote so that the vote ends. In favour 72 (S, V, KF, DF, NB, Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG)) voted against 31 (SF, RV, EL, LA, FG and ALT), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303103216	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303103227	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 101 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, FG, ALT, Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG)) voted against 2 (LA), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303103250	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. Now there will be an opportunity for those who do not want to take part in the negotiations to leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303103422	I assume that those who need to talk are now done doing so in the Chamber so that we can start the debate. First there are reviews. Today there are the following reviews: sir. Christian Juhl (EL), Uffe Elbæk (FG) and Torsten Gejl (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B 183 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the designation of Israel's regime and behaviour towards the Palestinians as apartheid). Liselott Blixt (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG), Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG) and Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG): Request no. F 43 (Will the Minister ensure an independent knowledge centre for alternative treatment, which the Medical Association, Medical Associations (LVS) and Danske Patients have put forward and which will be supported by the Danish Society for Orthomolecular Medicine?)). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From the Prime Minister, I have received the following letter of 2 March 2022: According to the Prime Minister's recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 25 February 2022 provides that the responsibility for certain IT-related tasks relating to the Road Directorate is transferred from the Minister of Transport to the Minister of Finance per year. 1 March 2022. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 25 February 2022 provides that the responsibility for all tasks, contracts and service agreements relating to basic IT operation of internal data centres, networks at manned office locations and supervisory offices, servers and storage, operation of operating systems, standard IT workstation, service desk and user management, information security tasks relating to the former, contracts and supply management tasks relating to outsourced IT operations related to the Road Directorate are transferred from the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance to the Minister of Transport per year. 1 March 2022. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign.: Mette Frederiksen
ParlaMint-DK_20220303103507	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303103520	Thank you, President. The purpose of the bill is to allow the Minister of Transport to carry out the conversion of Aarhus H and the area around the railway station and related facilities. Before DSB's new electric train can be put into service on Aarhus H, a chain of projects must be implemented in the right order. This concerns, among other things: on the renewal of railway tracks and structures, speed upgrades, track capacity extension, platform extension, the establishment of a new bypass track, allowing two trains to be settled via track 7 on Aarhus H, and the implementation of a new signalling system and electrification of the railway. In order to reduce the nuisances that the conversion can cause both for the local area and for the train traffic, Banedanmark has combined the sub-projects in one single construction phase called the overall solution. In the overall solution, the time originally required for construction works in Aarhus has been reduced from an execution period of between 7 and 9 years with planned stays to approx. 3 years of continuous work from 2024-2027. It is positive that the construction period has been reduced as much, because this means that the neighbours of the project will not be bothered by the works for as long as was originally provided for. In February 2021, the conciliation circle behind the political agreements on a green transport policy and the Togfonden DK decided that the project with the reconstruction of Aarhus H should be implemented as proposed in the overall solution. Furthermore, under the political agreement on the infrastructure plan 2035 funding has been provided for the remainder of the reconstruction, and a broad majority in the Danish Parliament is behind the reconstruction of Aarhus H. The reconstruction of Aarhus H is an important project for the railway, but it is also technically and complicated with great interdependence between the individual sub-projects of which the overall project consists. If the project is delayed, it will have significant socio-economic and traffic consequences, especially as it will not be possible to use the new electric trains throughout the route from Fredericia to Aalborg at the end of 2026 as provided for in current traffic plans. Therefore, it is important that the Construction Act contains the necessary legal tools to ensure the project's momentum, but also to ensure that the consideration of the project's neighbours can be properly taken into account. The draft law proposes that the Minister of Transport be given the power to issue regulations on the regulation of noise emitted by works and on compensation for particularly noise-influenced neighbours. Both the planning of the works linked to the reconstruction of Aarhus H and this bill, which is intended to authorise the project, thus reflect a good balance between the various opposing considerations which will inevitably arise when a major railway project is to be carried out centrally in a large city such as Aarhus. All in all, this is a very good bill, which the Social Democrats support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303103836	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303103852	Thank you for that, President. After all, the bill here is about a large construction project at Aarhus Central Station, and it is a bill that builds on a number of broad agreements starting in 2009 and ending up with our big, broad agreement from last year. That is what I would call a key project, because the project is a prerequisite for us to get to a green train operation where we can drive on the green, electrically driven trains of the future, among other things. North-south in Jutland, that is to say all the way to Aalborg, and it is also a project that is the prerequisite for ensuring the future of Aarhus Central Station, among other things. in connection with the new signal project. So it is a project aimed at a railway future that will be more electric, more CO2 It is very important. Then it is the case that when you do such a big project inside a big city, there will also be some drawbacks. I'm afraid it can't be different. There will be, among other things: be some neighbors that get bothered by the project. There may be noise, even outside the daytime, if we are to achieve the project within the time window that is, up to 2026 where we have to complete this. That is why a system of compensation has been set up for its neighbours. There is also a system of resettlement for those where it is more relevant, and thus we in the Left think that a good balance has been found between the consideration for the momentum of this project, which is very important for us not to get into a situation with major economic and railway consequences, and then the consideration for neighbours, which also needs to be taken. It's a project for just under a billion. kr., we're gonna get started here. This is good, and it is an extremely important project. That is why the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303104059	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303104111	Thank you for that, President. The electrification and modernisation of the Danish railway is crucial for our green transition. It will be the case that DSB's electric trains will have to be installed in the coming years and are already being installed, and that is why we need to ensure that they can operate on our rail network. It will be a gain for the environment, it will be a gain for the climate • ensures that we can achieve our climate goals and reduce our greenhouse gas emissions.The conversion of Aarhus Central Station is also a part of this, while modernising and restructuring the conversion process and making it easier for our railway to comply with what it has to: servicing passengers. It is important for the SF that noise pollution is taken into account in the construction process, and we can also see that efforts have been made by the Ministry and the Minister. Noise is a major problem for many citizens, and we can see that it is actually harmful to health when major projects such as this are carried out in a city with many citizens who are subject to severe noise effects. It is therefore very positive that the bill has as part of its purpose to ensure that the most noisy activities take place during the daytime and not at night when people sleep. However, I have one concern to which I hope the Minister can respond. For in addition to taking these things into account in the draft law, and in addition to being an important element in our modernisation and green conversion of our railways, we should not, of course, set ourselves apart from perhaps doing even more and expanding even further in the future. I know that there are some, among others. us in SF, who think it might be a good idea if you could drive freight trains and perhaps also some lightning trains bypassing Aarhus H, which is a little difficult, and maybe make them stop a little outside Aarhus H, for example by establishing a Shunt and a resulting railway station, a bit like High Taastrup, perhaps just where you have taken good account of the mistakes and shortcomings that have been made with Høje-Taastrup. It could save some time for some trains. This could perhaps ensure the capacity and good, effective opportunities for industry to drive even more goods on the railway in the Jutland Corridor. Therefore, we hope that the Minister will be able to say a clear 'yes' to the fact that in this construction project there will be no strain on the possibility of perhaps establishing in the future a Shunt and possibly an additional railway station, a so-called Super Aarhus H, I think you call it. I hope the Minister can answer that. But in addition, the SF supports the proposal. This brings us in the direction of greener rail traffic and a greener Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303104436	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And that means that we move on to Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303104444	Thank you very much. Like the previous rapporteurs, the Radical Left can also support the project. It must of course be so bad before it can be good, and here we have to go through a long and difficult period to get the improvements for rail traffic, in this case in Aarhus, on which we agree both radically and broadly in the Danish Parliament. We think that the construction law is wise and that the necessary considerations have been taken into account, and we support the proposal, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303104509	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we have to move on to Mr Beazley's report. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303104517	Thank you. The Enhedslisten, of course, supports this bill. First of all, it is part of the electrification of the network, including Aarhus Central Station, and also an upgrade of the access to and from Aarhus, so you get a faster entrance and exit. As such, it is also part of the Togfonden DK which began electrification of that part of the network which has not so far been electrified. It is a very extensive work that needs to be done; tracks and constructions must be renewed and bridges must be raised and lowered, or whatever they need to be done with them. There will be a much needed speed upgrade in and out of Aarhus, and I have read that you want to go up to 100 km/h, and I think you drive 40 km/h. in and out of Aarhus today. There will be a better capacity, there will be an extension of platforms, there will be trans-routine tracks, and, as I said, it is also part of electrification, because electrification will have to be carried out. But it is clear that the work on this scale is noisy, and it is, of course, gratifying that you have a neighbouring package with which compensation is given, something that we then created during the Metrocity ring and that we think is very good and also necessary. But these discussions about these noise limits are still gone, and the noise limits we use in Denmark do not entirely adhere to WHO limit values, especially the limit values for night noise. There's also the way you measure them. It is very good to have those average measurements over 24 hours or over a few hours, or whatever it is, and then you can see that no noise limits have been exceeded, but it doesn't matter if there are peaks during one night, and that was one of the problems with the Metrocity ring, because if you are awakened two, three times during the night because there is an extra bang in somewhere, it doesn't matter, because then you've got your sleep upset, and then it's just as much that you haven't on average exceeded the noise limits. I think we have to address that, and we have to do so in the administration that we have to do, and I understand that it is Banedanmark, of these neighboring complaints, and the compensation to be paid, of any resettlement and what it is. One has to be very flexible in relation to this and not stick strictly to the limits and say that our measurements show that there are no overruns, and by the way it doesn't matter if you've been awakened three times in one night to use that example. Then there is the one I would almost like to say usual discussion when we are dealing with works, and it is that limitation of the right of appeal which has become completely standard. I think it is a bad thing, and we have protested a great many times about it when we have had it here, because it is contrary to the Aarhus Convention, which provides easy and cheap access to a court-like decision and with the possibility of suspensory effect. I know that the worst thing that can happen is that it will have suspensory effect. We saw this with the Metrocity ring, and it can be really, really expensive, but it just means that you saw from the site authority, and in this case it would say Banedanmark's side, you have to prepare yourself very carefully, and you have to prepare the neighbours and bring them all the way through the process so that you do not get into unreasonable situations, I think you would call it neighbor complaints and things like that and therefore suddenly have a situation where it has suspensory effect and the work goes to a standstill. I believe that the Enhedslisten, I am not fully clear yet, will be tabling amendments to this, and we do so almost per year. We think it is a little out of order, because we think it is a little out of order there. Then I would like to draw your attention to the consultation answer from 3F, which draws attention to this in terms of labour and social clauses, and since it is the State that is offering, there should of course be social clauses and not least working clauses, but what it always lags behind when we discuss such things and when these things are unfolding is control. I would like to see the control provisions in the procurement treaties actually seen and discussed there. After all, we think that the trade union movement and employers' organisations should have a very, very central role when we talk about this, and I would like to have a discussion on that, so that we see whether there is actually a proper control regime. Then there is an interesting suggestion from a citizens' group that this is an old discussion, and the SF's rapporteur also mentioned it and it is about the issue of moving an Aarhus railway station westwards and, if I may say so, bypassing Aarhus H. I think it is a really interesting discussion, which I think we should do a great deal about. I don't have time to elaborate on it here, I can look at the President, so I won't, but I'll say that it's hard to get them right in Aarhus, so I would encourage you to actually take those discussions in Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303105042	Thanks to the rapporteur, who made it all, I have a feeling. In any case, there were no brief comments. And then it's sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303105050	Thank you very much. I'll try to make it a little shorter to make up for some time. Thank you for the floor. We clearly want to complete the reconstruction of Aarhus Central Station and the area around the train station and related facilities. After all, the conversion of Aarhus H is a future assurance of the station, which prepares it for deployment of DSB's new electrical train equipment, which will run on the Fredericia-Aalborg route from the end of 2026. However, we also have some concerns and some comments on something which means that we will at least be following the committee procedure a little before we take a final position. Our concern is the same as it has actually been for the bridge workers. It concerns the legal status of citizens, and right around the station there is approx. 20 000 citizens directly affected. As everyone knows, this is not a small conversion or a small station. These are extremely high noise limits that are being proposed and we should perhaps look a little towards what was the agreement for the bridge workers, with immediate compensation at a maximum. 60 dB and also compensation at 55 dB for more than 60 days. It is extremely intrusive for citizens to have to leave home for a longer period of time. Perhaps you should also look at how most of the noisiest work can be in the daytime • it can be by 1 p.m. 18, it could be by 8:00. 22 and maybe work with a reduction in the noise limit between 10 a.m. 18 and 22. 75 dB is very, very high and a multiplication of the noise limits that we normally work with. In the example of the bridge builders, where the Ministry of Transport agreed, after negotiations with Aarhus Municipality, to reduce from 65 to 60 dB, it was a halving of the noise level. So in these words we would like to see the reconstruction, but we are going to follow the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303105245	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303105252	Thank you. As the other rapporteurs have said, this is a huge building which, if we do not adopt this bill, has a time horizon of between 7 and 9 years. With this bill, it can then, according to the bill, be shaved down to three years, and that is after all quite a difference. For the Danish People's Party, it is important that we get Aarhus H ready for the Eltogenes, which will be running already from around 2026, i.e. between Fredericia and Aalborg, and there are, as other rapporteurs have mentioned, a number of things that we are a little concerned about. On the one hand, of course, it is incredibly important that there is progress in the project and that it does not take 9 years to do a project of this size. But there are also some normal things that are being put out of hand, complaints and other things, so perhaps I hope that when she gets to the platform, the Minister can put a few more words on what this means, for example. to derogate from the Law on the Protection of the Environment, the Law on the Pollution of Land, the Act on Nature Conservation, etc. What are the risks we're saying yes to pushing aside this bill? On the other hand, I also think that there is concern for the citizens. In other words, it is a good thing that we are giving the Minister the opportunity to lay down rules on compensation for noise, or that we can have a resettlement, that is, somewhere else to live, while there are major nuisances in living close to construction. But I also believe that we can all imagine that there may be severe noise nuisances that can become, and I think that we should be careful to make rules that are so rigid that it may actually end up being quite a few citizens who can get compensation or can get re-housing. I think we need to be a little generous if you can use that word... it may be, it's a wrong expression... but then actually show consideration for it. Because it is clearly in the interests of society that we do this big building, but we also have to be decent to the many people who live close to us and who can get some severe discomfort because of it. So perhaps the Minister can put some words on it, otherwise we will have to go down in committee. After all, there are several other rapporteurs who have mentioned some of the same, Conservatives and also Enhedslisten, in relation to this right of appeal that disappears, and at the same time we are allowing for compensation and what kind of rigid rules we are setting up. I think that is a little something we need to delve into the work of the committee. I would say that I will probably end up voting in favour of the bill, because it is a good thing that we are developing Aarhus H, but there are some things we just wanted to look at in committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303105507	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see that there are any brief comments, which means that we move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303105515	Thank you so much. This bill is such a good patchwork of previous agreements and newer agreements and a whole lot of other. In New Citizens we are part of the agreement on the major infrastructure plan from this summer, where money was set aside for, among other things. extension of some of the platforms. Of course, we support this, but then there are some parts of this bill that are about the implementation of some previous agreements that we are not part of. So that is something we will be looking at in committee. With regard to the right of appeal, we are in fact in complete agreement with what has been said here from the platform, among other things. By Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party, and I think the Conservative rapporteur also mentioned something about it. I could understand that the Enhedslisten is tabling an amendment on this, and we can support that in New Citizens, because in general we are only opposed to the removal of the right of appeal. Then there are also some other things that are being left out, as was also mentioned by the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, in relation to some environmental legislation, etc., which we must also look at in committee. Having said that, we cannot at this stage give our final position on this legislative proposal until we have clarified these points in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303105633	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I see that the next rapporteur is urgently on his way, and that is Mr Beazley. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303105644	Thank you. It is a very large process with the reconstruction of Aarhus Railway Station, which is dealt with here in the bill. There have been many ends to meet, and there are many processes that need to be coordinated. It is my clear impression that with this bill we have found the best possible way of doing it. This does not mean that no one can think it could be better, but consideration for them is therefore balanced against consideration for some other things, and when you weigh it all up, you find that this bill is the best way to do it. We consider this to be correct, and that is why we are voting in favour of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303105729	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I do not see any more rapporteurs asking to speak, and that is why it is now the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303105738	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for receiving the bill. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen said it has to be bad before it can be good, and I think that's the title of this bill. The reconstruction of Aarhus H is both a good and important project, and the project is a key piece in the green transformation of the railway. It is important that we achieve the green conversion of the railway, where electrification plays a key role. It is therefore also positive to hear that a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties are behind the reconstruction of Aarhus H, including the recent decision to build longer platforms and get more capacity when Aarhus H is to be rebuilt anyway. After all, the purpose of the conversion is to prepare the station for the deployment of DSB's new electric train, which according to current traffic plans will run on the route between Fredericia, Aarhus and Aalborg from December 2026. At the same time, the station's capacity is expanded, and tracks and constructions are renewed to improve the operation of travelers to and from Aarhus. When large construction projects are to be carried out, it is inevitable that the local area and project neighbours will experience noise and other nuisances from the works. This also applies to the renovation of Aarhus H, which takes place centrally in Aarhus. In planning the works there has therefore also been a great focus on reducing noise nuisances during the night hours as much as possible. Thus, consideration of the local population has been given to the organization of export plans. However, although most of the noisy work is planned for the day shift, it is not entirely possible to avoid noise from the construction project at night, and therefore the bill proposes to allow the Minister of Transport to issue regulations for noise from the construction project. In this case, rules must be laid down at the same time for the compensation or resettlement of citizens affected by noise. All amounts paid on this basis are tax-free and will not involve a reduction in public benefits. Without a construction law for the reconstruction of Aarhus H, this type of compensation option will not be available. The approach is similar to the way in which the noise problem has been dealt with by several rapporteurs in connection with the construction of the Metrocity ring in Copenhagen. However, it is important to stress that the overall noise picture from the remodeling of Aarhus H is fortunately on a smaller scale. The draft law thus ensures, on the one hand, that the plans for the railways in Denmark can be maintained and, on the other hand, that consideration for the many neighbours to the railway in Aarhus is properly taken care of. Then there were some questions about redress. I just think it is important to emphasise that it will still be possible to bring a case before the Parliamentary Ombudsman or the courts. However, in relation to visit and environmental aspects, the court must ensure that the costs of the case are not insurmountablely high for the parties concerned. Again: Thank you for the positive feedback. I am, of course, available to answer questions, including the question raised by Mrs Valentina Berthelsen, about whether we can do anything to ensure that freight transport can have better conditions and also whether there is a possibility of stopping other types of train. I think we should all do this in the committee process. So thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303110133	Thank you, Minister of Transport. I do not see anyone wishing to speak and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303110147	The debate is open. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303110159	Thank you, President. The purpose of the bill is to make changes to the Road Traffic Code. It is proposed to introduce a legal basis into the Road Traffic Code, whereby the Road Directorate, as Road Authority for State Roads, can remove emergency vehicles from State Roads and have its costs borne by the owner of the vehicle. Circular on the removal and disposal of vehicles by the police is assumed to be amended at the same time, so that the removal of vehicles which are dangerous to traffic can take place without prior consultation of the parties, whose road safety or traffic resolution considerations argue that the removal should take place immediately. A legal basis is also proposed whereby A/S Storebælt and A/S Øresund can remove vehicles from the Storebælt link and the Øresund motorway. A legal basis is proposed whereby the Road Directorate, as Road Authority for State Roads or the bridge owner, can regulate the movement of emergency incidents on state roads. Among other things: A general ban on stopping and parking is proposed for inappropriate parking in large cities in the so-called divorce rebates. It is in fact the case that the definition of a rebate and an outer rebate is clarified, since clarification of a rebate has not been made clear by the law before. The proposal also makes it clear that distribu tions are no longer covered by the definition of outer rebates. However, it is proposed that a vehicle with a maximum permissible laden weight not exceeding 3,500 kg may be stopped or parked with part of the vehicle on a disassembly discount outside more densely constructed areas. The draft law also proposes extending the traffic law so that it will also be possible to set a lower speed limit for a defined area when the area is particularly suitable for this purpose. It is the municipalities that have expressed the need for this, and it is a wish that I think makes sense to respond to. At the request of some landowners' associations and municipalities, changes are proposed in the law on private common roads. It is proposed that municipalities and landowners may conclude agreements with a view to maintaining winter and maintaining private common roads at the expense of the landowner. These are snow clearing, measures to combat slippage and cleanliness of roads, which are regulated by the law on private common roads, and which therefore fall outside the scope of current legislation. The draft law only provides for an agreement basis for the municipalities and the landowners to enter into agreements that the municipality provides for winter maintenance and cleanliness. This means that it is a voluntary scheme that the municipalities can decide for themselves whether to implement, just as the municipalities are free to make a practice of only entering into service agreements where there is unanimity among the landowners. An amendment has also been made to the law on private common roads, so that agreements concluded on the basis of § 83a must be awarded according to the procurement law. This should help to ensure that the legislative proposal does not have a significant negative impact on competition for private companies. All in all, it is a number of good practical measures that the Social Democratic Party can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303110536	Thank you. And I do not see any desire for short remarks. And that is why we move on to the rapporteur's report. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303110550	Thank you for that, President. The draft law here contains a number of good elements which strengthen the accessibility of the traffic it is important and which also strengthens road safety. My good socialist colleagues have already explained the individual elements of the draft law, which is why I would like to concentrate on just commenting on a few of them. In relation to the speed of the legislative proposal, we in the Left believe that there is a good principle called speed with sense. And it has meant that in the past we have raised speed in some places where it is safe and good to drive. But it is also important to be able to slow down when it makes sense. And that's one of them. What is being proposed here is that more can be done in urban areas. It is also planned to do so in relation to, for example: island communities where there is virtually only one way. There are some islands that want you to drive on one road perhaps not 50 km/h, but perhaps only 40 km/h. There may be good sense in this on a small island where there are a few cars and a lot of pedestrians and cyclists. So speed with the reason element is fine. What we in the Left are sceptical about, however, is if you think in the big cities that it is now about to be 40 km/h on passing roads in the city. For there is also a need for momentum in the cities, and that is why we need some major arteries, for example. in Copenhagen. And that is not where action is to be taken. This is out on the side streets where we, for example. have day care centres and schools and other things where such zones could make sense. So it's good as it says here. We just need to keep an eye on how it is implemented sensibly in the cities. I would just like to mention the fact that the Storebælt fixed link and the Øresund fixed link have the power to remove vehicles. In fact, I myself pressed for this, because I was one of those who held down at Korsør and waited for a truck that had fallen to be removed there. And then it wasn't just the sort of procedure that made it just started. And it costs society immensely dearly when traffic stops for hours on such a connection. So it is a good thing that a faster procedure is being put in place for this, so there is no doubt that one can of course remove such a vehicle that blocks traffic between our parts of the country. Then there is the last element, and this is where there may be some problems, seen with the Left's eyes. Because it's fine that the municipality can make a voluntary agreement with some landowners' associations to clear snow and do something else on these private roads where the landowners themselves have to pay. But what is not fine is if it is the municipality itself that performs the task, i.e. the municipality's own employees. Because then that's what's called task slipping. And we cannot accept that in the Left, that is to say we go in and take over tasks from private companies, tasks which are done well by the market, and that is why we will drill it a little more in the committee procedure so that we get it fenced in, hopefully. It is okay that you can make an agreement with the municipality if it is provided that it is competitive and the municipality offers the task to private actors. However, we are not going to have tasks taken over from small private companies, which must then basically compete against those who have taxpayers' money in their backs. So it may sound a little ideological, but it is an important principle, and we have many small companies out there who would not be able to cope with such competition if that is what is involved. That's basically what it's called ditching. However, apart from that, it is generally a positive legislative proposal that we welcome. But we're going to drill a little bit more in this with regard to solving tasks in relation to private pilots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303110948	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303110951	Yes, I can't help myself, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. If the rapporteur insists on several occasions that it should be speed with sense, it raises the question quickly: is Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen of the view that speed limits should be such a guide? I ask, of course, because it is very individual what people see as reasonable speed in a given place. It's definitely there, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, people over there, where we live, on the very, very long straight roads that seem to 120 or 130 km/h. is quite all right, even if the speed limit is 80 or 90 km/h. So to this with speed of reason, let me say: Ah!
ParlaMint-DK_20220303111040	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303111042	It is nice to hear that there is life in Henning Hyllested with regard to the debate. Of course, speed limits must be respected. The principle of speed with sense comes in when you set the speed limit, and that is where we have regulated some limits where there was sense in it. Here are some examples of how it makes sense to regulate them down. So, of course, the prescribed speed limits must be respected. That is also why, in the Left, we are in favour of buying some more starling boxes, so-called atk's, and putting them up in the dangerous places of traffic around, just as has been done on a large scale in Sweden. Because it saves lives. So speed with sense also means keeping to the prescribed speed limits.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303111119	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303111120	I am, of course, very pleased about that. I didn't expect any other answer either. Like I said, I just couldn't help myself when you use that expression. Then I'll ask you something else. It is just a short one, and it is in relation to the last in terms of private performance of winter maintenance and cleaning tasks. I assume that the rapporteur has noted that, after all, there is no change compared to the previous provisions, there is a requirement that there should be a call for tenders, that there should be at least three bids for the task of agreeing with the private landowners on a private common road.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303111157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303111159	Yes, I have seen that, but I have also seen that in the hearings from among others. Danish Industry and Danish Industry are lifted an index finger, which is why we would like it to be drilled out during the committee procedure, so we are absolutely sure what we are saying yes to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303111214	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments and we will move on to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303111226	Thank you. Traffic safety is a priority of the SF. Fortunately, we have seen a reduction in the number of road accidents by 2020 and it is important that this development continues. We need to work continuously to make traffic safer, and the amendments to this bill, as I see it, can contribute to that on a number of points. This applies, of course, both when it comes to fast and safe clearance after other road accidents, and when it comes to the possibility of lower local speed limits where it is needed for safety reasons. This also applies when it comes to allowing municipalities to create service arrangements with landowners for winter maintenance and cleaning tasks of roads. This will help to create common high safety standards on public as well as private common roads, and we very much welcome those measures. There is, however, a concern in the response to the hearing to the Ministry which appears and which I am a little interested in. It is the fact that the security challenges that exist in the larger cities with parking in outer discounts do not seem to be solved by the ban on parking in divorce rebates. I can see that the Ministry is aware of it in this way, but it would just be important for me to stress that this has to be resolved. We must work continuously towards ensuring traffic better, including in terms of parking in the outermost regions. SF supports the initiatives in the proposal and sees them as important in increasing safety on the Danish roads.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303111404	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And we're hurrying on to sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303111412	Thank you. Like the previous rapporteurs, the Radical Left can support the proposal, which is of course made up of many components, but we think it all makes sense and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303111423	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303111439	This should, of course, allow the Road Directorate to be more efficient, quick and safe clearing after e.g. Road traffic accidents and, for that matter, other incidents. This is done in the interests of road safety, as other rapporteurs have also pointed out, but also in the interests of accessibility. Yes, it is always a matter of comprehension when we are talking about the Road Directorate. A/S Storebælt and A/S Øresund must be given the same opportunities on their facilities where they are road authorities. And who can really be against it? At least we're not in the Enhedslisten. We think it is a sensible proposal, including that we can provide better opportunities to regulate traffic, that is to say to reduce speed when an incident has occurred and that we are clearing the way for the people who work there and, at the very least, to avoid accidents. Then there is the whole section on the ban on stopping and parking in divorce rebates, as it is now called. There, of course, I note that there is an exception for cars outside more densely built areas. I think it is worth questioning why this distinction is being made. I fully agree that the comments also point out that this is not so much a problem outside more densely built areas, but I do not see why we should really distinguish it in this way. There are a couple of rich consultation answers from the City of Copenhagen and from the City of Aarhus, where they have a number of objections to these things; and it is much of such a technical nature. I think it is important to listen carefully to the two large urban municipalities, which have the problem of parking in particular: illegal parking, wrong parking, bad parking, what you call it all. I cannot fully assess whether the two municipalities have been adequately accommodated, either on the basis of the consultation note or on the basis of the changes that have been made to the draft law since the hearing. Actually, I don't think so, but I'm having a hard time getting hold of it. At any rate, I can see that they are complaining that the proposed rules cannot properly label the ban, that is to say that it will be difficult to sign a ban. There they are, of course, supported by the police, who also believe that the rules are somewhat difficult to understand, as they are formulated here. Perhaps I would like to suggest that during the committee procedure the committee called them in for a mini-consultation in the committee, i.e. the City of Aarhus and the City of Copenhagen and perhaps also the police, because I would like a little more explanation of what they think the problem is. Then there is the whole question of lower speed limits. It is, of course, gratifying to note that this is also mentioned in the comments • the government's focus on ensuring increased access to local speed limits where there is a local need for this. That's where I thought right away when I read it: Yes! It was joyful. But I was also quickly disappointed when I read on, because there is a whole series of restrictions on it. This applies only outside more densely built areas, in a defined area, and when the area is suitable for this, as it says. I think that an area is suitable for this, if the residents and the municipality think that there should be a reduction in speed here. A defined area is then understood as two side roads, for example. two lateral paths to an overall path, but the overall path cannot be part of the defined area. But that's where the speed is high. That's where it's dangerous. That is where the accidents occur. So I simply do not think that is logical and I think it is wrong. I think it is a bad thing at all about the restrictions that are in this area. The Enhedslisten is in favour of giving a much greater freedom to municipalities to set lower speed limits, in fact also on state roads. And it is not least in the metropolitan municipalities that it is needed, because this is where noise is so much tormented, where a reduced speed limit would help this. This has been a great wish of the municipalities for a long time. So far, this has become an experimental scheme which the government will set in motion. I think that is simply too unambitious. Then there is the whole question of winter maintenance. I was just talking about that in my questions to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. I think it's safe. I don't quite see what the difference is from earlier to now. I think I can read out that you now have a legal basis to do the same as you have done so far, and if that is the way it is, then for my sake there is no alarm. It was a little funny that the Ankestyrelsen so overruled it, but it's because you have a very, very rigid local authority. But I do not see that the big change has taken place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303111945	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we have come to Mr Beazley. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303111950	Thank you very much. The progress and road safety are and should be at the forefront, and that is why we welcome L 123 because it makes sense to have the opportunity to remove vehicles that are in the pipeline so that they do not bother traffic or road safety. For the part describing that vehicles placed in such a position as to pose an acute risk to road safety and therefore have the possibility of being removed without the consultation of the party, if you cannot reach the driver: it must and must be the responsibility of the driver to place his vehicle in such a way that it is not an acute risk to safety. With this bill, a legal basis has been prepared for the municipalities to enter into an agreement with the landowners that, for payment, the municipality can carry out winter maintenance and cleaning tasks carried out under the Private Road Act. There was no legal basis for this in the previous law. There will be now. We will, of course, also be keeping a very close eye on competition in the committee's proceedings. We also think it is good that we are looking at giving municipalities the freedom to slow down their cities, for example. at schools and the like. So thank you for that. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303112103	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That brings us to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303112109	In fact, I believe that most Danes expect what the draft law is proposing to happen today, namely that the authorities remove vehicles from state roads if they present an acute traffic hazard. In fact, they are doing so to a certain extent today. But when the bill is necessary, it is because the authorities are today working on emergency law as a legal basis. There you have to be honest and say that it does not last quite when it is a task that is almost solved on a daily basis. That is why I think it is a good thing that a clear legal basis is being created for this. That's why we in the Danish People's Party support that part. It also makes sense to have a legal basis in the Private Road Act so that the municipality and the citizens can conclude voluntary service arrangements. It may be about snow clearing and other practical things. We think that is quite reasonable. I would say that in my own landowners' association there is a municipal road right down the middle through the landowners' association, where the municipality then has to clear one way, and the landowners' association must then clear the rest. It would make sense if you could make an agreement and find out that either the municipality or the landowners' association cleared it all, that you split the bill, or whatever you could find out. So it is quite reasonable to have a slightly more flexible arrangement of the law. So we can also support that part. That is why I can say that we can support the entire legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303112234	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This brings us to the next rapporteur, Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303112252	A lot has already been said from this platform about this bill. On the part of the new citizens, there are some things we need to ask about in committee. As a starting point, we're critical of the last part of these service agreements. However, as previous speakers have also said, we will also ask questions about it in committee and then see how we view the overall legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303112318	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303112325	The draft law contains a number of elements which are positive and which others have described very well here from the platform. We can back them up. Then it contains a single element that we are more sceptical about, and that is the fact that the municipality must be able to provide snow clearing for private and private common roads. It is not the case that the municipality has to operate in Denmark. Just because the municipality is renovating its school does not mean that the craftsmen should also be sent over to the villa owners who live next door. Nor should it happen when it comes to snow clearing. I understand, then, that there is a requirement that this should be done by means of invitations to tender, that is to say. to private persons. However, when the municipality is in the process of providing snow clearance of its own roads, the municipality can also make that service available through the tender for private communal roads. This may lead us to take a slightly different approach to the matter. But we think there's some uncertainty about these things, so we'd like to have it drilled out in the coming weeks, and then we'll see how we can deal with the whole bill afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303112447	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and I do not see any more rapporteurs asking to speak, and that is why it is now the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303112457	Thank you for your comments on the bill. I actually think we've all been trying to keep in line on the highway because of an accident, and when we get to the accident scene, we're thinking, "How can such a small accident cause such a long queue?" With increasing traffic on our roads, it is a problem that is growing and it is important that the road authorities can restore traffic as quickly as possible. With this bill, we provide a better framework for the road authorities to quickly make traffic slip again, and in practice the road authorities will say the Road Directorate for the entire state road network, but the law also includes A/S Storebælt and A/S Øresund, where there are the same problems. That's what Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen us a personal experience of. Today, the road authorities do not have the legal means to act quickly when a car has stalled and is stuck on the road track, and this is the same problem in the case of minor accordion collisions where no personal injury has occurred. The police are now competent to remove the car, but in such incidents and minor accidents the police are usually not present. The minor accidents can have a major impact on the occurrence and lead to mile - long cows. However, they also have an impact on road safety, because when a car is kept in a lane, there is a great risk of secondary accidents in which the car is hit by another car. It can start banal with a puncture or an empty tank or an empty battery, but it can end up fatally. That is why it is important for us to ensure that action can be taken as quickly as possible, and it is also the aim of the draft law here to provide a better framework for effective, rapid and safe clearing after road accidents or other incidents. It is a matter of getting the car off the tram as soon as possible. There has then been a need for the Road Authority to regulate the movement of emergency incidents, and in practice it can be about breaking down the speed while cleaning up after an accident. This will benefit both road safety and the safety of those working on the road to clean up. It is the most important change that is taking place with this bill that we allow the Road Authority to deal more effectively with the minor accidents and incidents in which the police are typically not present. In addition, the draft law raises a number of other issues in the field of road traffic. As far as the rules on parking at the discount are concerned, in recent years it has been quite a zigzag course, to say the least. First it has been allowed, then forbidden and then allowed again. I think that the somewhat fluctuating line indicates that there are very different conditions in the larger cities and the smaller cities outside the urban area respectively. With the proposal for a ban on parking in part-bars, as for outsiders listening, is the discount between road and bike path or between bike path and sidewalk, I think we will solve a nice part of the problem of inappropriate parking in the larger cities. I do not think we can solve any more of the problem by means of the general rules of the Road Traffic Code without creating major problems elsewhere. We saw this with the 2014 ban, which resulted in citizens in villages being fined for parking on their own grounds. If there are problems with inappropriate parking in the larger cities, which this bill does not solve, then it is probably something that needs to be dealt with specifically by signposting. There is an underboard with a parking ban in the discount that the road authorities can use. A number of questions have also been raised in relation to road maintenance. As the rules are today, there is no clear legal basis for municipalities and landowners to enter into an agreement on winter maintenance and cleaning of the private common roads. Ankestyrelsen, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur also mentioned, established this in a specific case back in 2017, which overruled the municipalities' winter maintenance service agreement and the maintenance of private common roads at the expense of the landowners. For general road maintenance, however, the rules are clear and the municipalities can already conclude agreements to carry out future road maintenance at the expense of the landowners. So the purpose of the bill here is thus to accommodate the landowners and municipalities who have been sorry to have to terminate service agreements for winter maintenance and cleanup. The draft law has therefore been drawn up at the request of both landowners and municipalities to enable municipalities to offer service agreements on winter maintenance and cleaning of the private common roads. I look forward to further discussion in the Folketing and, of course, I am also prepared to answer questions and discuss the matter further.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303113005	Thanks to the Minister for Transport. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303113020	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 15 March. We have just a break until we get ready for the rapporteurs to sit in the front rows because this is a question debate. It seems that the rapporteurs are in the lead, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Henning Hyllested, who is allowed to come up here and justify the request. Here you go, sir. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303113257	I shall then explain the question on air transport. The Danish aviation strategy as it stands today is from July 2017, and consists mainly of generation of several routes and several daily departures to and from Denmark and internally in Denmark. It was intended to increase Denmark's international accessibility, and the focus was on economic growth, employment and cohesion between the parts of the country. In addition, it included an expansion of Copenhagen Airport... it was long before the corona... so it was possible to move from receiving 30 million passengers to receiving 40 million passengers. But there is no sound about climate in that aviation strategy, and it has to be said that there has been a lot of water running in the stream since then. The climate has come high on the agenda, the election in 2019 was a climate choice. We have a new government, and in this respect we have agreed on an understanding paper in which we have a 70-percent target on CO2 We have also since received the Coronapandemic, which effectively put an end to flight both nationally and internationally, and which, of course, put the aviation industry down almost immediately. However, at the beginning of the Corona we have also received a report from the Air Transport Climate Partnership, which we at least welcomed in the Enhedslisten. There were, in fact, a number of progressive and sensible proposals that could be worked on well. It is a fact that aviation is the most climate-damaging mode of transport available. This applies to emissions from fuel in the form of CO2 x Aviation is a major emitter in the transport sector, and as such it is a great sinner. The transport sector is already a great sinner when we talk about emissions, and so aviation is a really big sinner within it. The government, particularly in the form of the former Minister of Transport, has announced a plan for the green conversion of aviation, but we have not heard anything yet. Cards have been kept quite close to the body. However, such a plan could be appropriate in the form of a new aviation strategy with the climate as its focal point. We feel that times call for doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303113555	Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. Then it is the Minister of Transport for an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303113608	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Henning Hyllested to raise the debate here today. I've been looking forward to it. This is a good opportunity to read well into things. The green conversion of air transport is something that I think is important, but I must also say that it is not an easy task, and I believe that everyone in this House is aware of this. Air transport is a very important element in the coherence of our country and in our relations with the outside world, but we all know that air travel affects the climate to such an extent. Aviation must therefore be greener. Aviation is a key to reducing our CO2 emissions, and I will come back to that in a moment, but I will just say something about the previous government's aviation strategy. That strategy had a clear focus on strengthening Denmark's relations with the outside world, and I agree that it is indisputable that aviation is very important for our society and for our economy, because aviation binds us with the world and supports our business, tourism and more, and aviation is also very important for whether we as people can meet across national borders with our family and friends. It allows us to experience new places and new cultures that can give us inspiration and energy and make us feel like we live as human beings. Therefore, the government agrees that we need a strong aviation sector in Denmark, and we also need an international top airport in Denmark. This gives the Danes the opportunity to fly out and experience something and contribute to the world. As indisputable as the value of aviation is, it is also that aviation has this massive impact on our climate. Air transport is estimated to contribute approx. 3% by the global CO2 The former government, in connection with their aviation strategy from 2017, identified Danish aviation as important to society, but unfortunately the strategy does not contain the shadow of ambition in the climate area. There is no indication of how aviation reduces its CO2 There we are, like somewhere else today, and there is another need today. Therefore, the aviation strategy of 2017 is not this government's aviation plan, simply because the strategy only relates to one of several aspects, which is absolutely crucial when discussing aviation, and I therefore understand that Mr. Henning Hyllested with this debate is looking for a new plan for aviation. Later this year, the government will present a comprehensive plan for the green conversion of aviation, which will show the direction of more sustainable air traffic, and Denmark will have to take the lead and raise the bar for the green conversion. This also applies to air traffic. We have set the very ambitious goal in the government that in 2025 the Danes should have the opportunity to fly green on a domestic route, and by 2030 you should be able to fly green when travelling domestic in Denmark. We will also make a move on foreign air traffic. We are therefore working both nationally and internationally to ensure a plan to promote the green conversion of air traffic. The green conversion of aviation will be difficult. There are no standard solutions we can pull off the shelves. And since aviation is an international mode of transport, we must keep an eye on what the countries around us are doing. The alternative may be that air travel simply moves out of the country, and we do not reduce CO2 Specifically, one can imagine that instead of taking a plane from Billund or Kastrup driving to Hamburg or to Sweden, where one can then fly from. After all, none of us has an interest in this being the isolated solution. But that does not change the fact that we have to put the bar high, and we do, and we will push on to technological developments and international barriers so that we can achieve our high goals. Skillful researchers and companies are working on the solutions, and their contribution will be crucial to an ambitious green conversion of air traffic. We can already produce green fuels today, and there are even companies working on exciting projects on electric aircraft there is already an electric plane in Denmark, because the defense has a flight and aircraft flying on hydrogen. What they all say is that there is a need for a significantly greater demand for green products. That is what we are trying to do when, as a government, we set clear targets for a green domestic aviation, and if we succeed, it will be a green breakthrough, not just for Denmark, but for the whole world. And I do not think I reveal too much when I say that when I told you at the last EU meeting about our ambitions, the eyes were opened on the partners we have. The next time we meet, hopefully the eyes will not be opened, but hopefully there will be a dialogue that they will start to set the same goals as we have here in Denmark. Green aviation fuels are now more expensive than fossil fuels, and we must therefore also expect that there will be a bill by pushing aviation in the green direction. It's still gone too soon to say what the bill will sound like. This depends on the speed with which we can speed up technological development and on the means we use. But we want to be a pioneering country, which also means that we must be able to fly, but more green than today, and we must therefore find a balance in that area too. The aviation industry itself has proposed the introduction of a small passenger tax which can be used to finance the green conversion. This must ensure, as I understand it, that everyone contributes and that the competitiveness of Danish aviation does not have an unnecessarily heavy burden that can move flights out of Denmark. This is an interesting proposal that we are looking at in connection with the government's proposal on green aviation. Of course, we also need to look at the coherence of the initiatives of the European Union and the international aviation organisation. There are great climate benefits in that we can find common ground across countries so that flights do not simply move around between us. The government is therefore also actively working for international solutions. Here, too, we must show that we can take the lead and that we are pushing for a high level of ambition. Foreign aviation from Denmark is a natural place to start, and we must set ourselves ambitious targets so that we constantly push on development. It is important that we create all the right incentives for the aviation industry to start flying green to and from Denmark, and that the industry not only sees the advantages of flying around us, as I mentioned before. We must also look at this in the context of the forthcoming government initiative, and then there are some international barriers that we must have lifted. Work is also being done in the European Union. The Commission is working on the Fit for the 55 package and there they are taking an exciting first step. I am in favour, Mr President, of mentioning it without the English terms when we talk about it here in Parliament. The package contains a number of proposals for the green transition of aviation, including: The Commission is proposing a European demand for the incorporation of green fuels, and this is an important step in order to push across the European Union towards the production, development and demand of aircraft fuels, not by putting food such as maize in the aviation tank, but by developing real climate-friendly fuels that make aviation sustainable. Despite all the good intentions of the Commission's proposal, the Commission has adopted a 5% level of incorporation. in 2030. The proposal, as it is now, will not allow Member States to set higher requirements. The Government has therefore taken the initiative of a declaration in which Denmark, together with a number of other countries, calls on the Commission to allow the Member States to set higher requirements. It is important that the green transition of aviation is not slowed down when, as we have in Denmark, we have a very strong will and a political desire to go further. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that the government still wants a strong aviation sector in Denmark. We are therefore also pleased with the good cooperation we have with the industry in the climate partnership. Despite the tough times during the corona, the industry has pulled on its work clothes and has made good suggestions on how to strengthen the green transition. We will, of course, continue this cooperation and also include in the government's proposal for a green conversion of the gas. As mentioned above, the proposal will be presented later in 2022, and I look forward to the dialogue and debate with the parties of the Folketing. Again, I would like to thank you for the debate here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303114611	Thank you for that and a brief comment from the rapporteurs is now available. But no one has asked for that, so thank the Minister for Transport. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks, and the first to speak is the rapporteur for the questioners. Here you go, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303114639	As I also said in my justification for calling this question, it is that air transport is extremely climate-laden, the main reason for that, and that we need to change the aviation strategy so that the whole issue of climate becomes the focal point. Something simply needs to happen. I have to say that in the report that came from the aviation climate partnership back in 2020, right after the corona had broken out, I think it was possible to trace a clear willingness in the industry to make a transition to sustainable, CO2 One also operates in the report or in its proposals with a passenger tax directed over into a climate fund that could be used to develop these alternative fuels. This could perhaps be replaced by a CO2 This is not part of the climate partnership proposal. In addition, a number of operational efficiency improvements were proposed: new aircraft, route optimizations and such things. These were all very good suggestions. After all, it is noted that air traffic is exempt from energy taxes on fuel, and it is also exempt from VAT, which, of course, makes air transport cheaper, quite unnecessarily cheaper in our view. We will probably not let go of the new fuels, which are more expensive, as the Minister also mentioned, than the existing fuels, so as to make the fare more expensive for passengers in one way or another. A socially balanced way of doing so must then be found. We note, however, that it is above all the better-off who fly most in this country and globally at all. We also think that it is right to have charges on flights just like our neighbouring countries, Sweden and Germany, for example. with a whole stripe. We've almost become a tax haven in this area. After all, when Sweden introduced air fares in 2018, there was a nicely large drop in the number of flights by Swedes. One can discuss whether you should not allow the aviation industry to be included in a general CO2 level. I think that is certainly worth considering instead of perhaps doing all kinds of passenger charges and such things or also a combination of those things. It should be borne in mind that the taxes that might be imposed on CO2 2 It is therefore a load that is fully in line with, perhaps even higher than that which comes from the emissions of fuels, i.e. emissions of CO2 It should also be noted that CO2 is therefore surprising that this is what the Prime Minister focused on in his New Year speech. Here it might be better to focus on other modes of transport such as trains and buses, not least trains. In fact, we also have the infrastructure agreement at 13 billion. kr. to unfold. The Danish Railway Fund is, of course, paused, if I may say so, until 2030, and that is, in our view, disastrous. But that's what it's become. It is, of course, an excellent alternative, sustainable mode of transport, not least domestic, one might say. I think the Minister referred to a meeting she attended with the EU Transport Ministers, which also looked at this European Commission initiative, this so-called action plan. The point of that was, of course, the same, and I hope that when we hear more about extending the railways in Europe at some point as a climate-friendly alternative to aircraft and, for that matter, road transport. It also brings night trains on the track. After all, we have had a lot of discussions about this, but also difficulties in realising this in terms of supported traffic, because problems have been encountered in Germany. Meanwhile, aircraft have again begun to fly cheaply, exempt from energy and air fares. In our opinion, this is quite wrong. The railway is the most sustainable mode of transport at all. So, in summary, we in the Enhedslisten are in favour of air fares similar to those of our neighbouring countries, possibly a CO2 tax should take account of condensation and flight lines and NO x We know there are some international problems with that, but that has to be resolved. There is the Chicago Convention and the Energy Taxation Directive, tax support for the development of ptx and the creation of a market for that kind of thing. And then we think that what is needed is also fewer flights. I have a proposal for adoption which I will read out: Proposals for adoption The government is encouraged to change the Danish aviation strategy so that the target is no longer more routes and more daily departures, but a strategy based on limiting aviation, where other modes of transport are more appropriate in terms of climate, that action in the field of aviation should not increase the climate and environmental problems, but should contribute to reducing the overall climate effect as well as local air pollution, and that air transport in the Danish area should reduce the climate effect, at least as proposed by the aviation climate&#x2; partnership as part of a ptx strategy. In addition, a new climate-based aviation strategy should include measures to ensure that a green transition in Danish aviation overall promotes employment, so that funds are allocated for retraining and upgrading, as well as training for the former and future employees in the aviation industry. • V 45).
ParlaMint-DK_20220303115253	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303115258	Thank you for that and thank you for this excellent initiative. I took note of Mr. Henning Hyllested's speech, that he said it's the wealthy who fly the most. Thus it is also implicit that an aviation tax or a climate contribution will be progressive. Has the Enhedslisten left the idea of compensating for the climate contribution by some form of social scheme? It has always been an almost incomprehensible thing to me that you have connected it, that is to say it should be something you should compensate the poorest for, so that they can fly as much as the rich. Has that thought been abandoned?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303115331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303115333	No, we haven't. And I also think that I was actually told that the fact that the tickets are going to be more expensive to some extent should be compensated for socially. After all, we have been involved in this throughout our aviation strategy, namely that some form of social compensation has to be found. How exactly it is to be drafted must of course depend on the negotiations that may arise at some point around this. We suggested at the time that the green cheque be compensated, for example. to some of the low-paid and least-paid but there are probably other ways to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303115409	Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303115411	Thank you. I have been told that the most progressive taxation one can imagine is an airline tax, precisely because it is so clearly linked to wealth how much one fly; so the only tax one could imagine would be more progressive would be a caviar tax. There is no real limit to what to compensate for, I understand, and I just have to say that I am puzzled and that we will not go down that path by radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303115435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303115436	That is true, and that is also what the various studies show that it is the highest paid people in our society who fly the most, and that is why it is quite correct that when you impose some kind of charge on air travel, it actually has a social profile that is excellent. We just do not want if that is the problem that arises, that people should be deprived of the opportunity to fly. We actually think it's okay that people go to Mallorca once a year, or how often it might now be rather not too often. We think you should take your holiday in the neighbourhood, but we should not decide that. So in this way we are prepared to provide social compensation if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303115515	Thank you for that, sir. Henning Hylllested. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303115530	Thank you, President. Thank you to Enhedslisten for the opportunity to discuss this important issue of Danish aviation strategy with the Danish Parliament. After all, the climate challenge is one of the greatest and most urgent tasks of our time if we ignore the current events in Ukraine, and aviation is of great importance in this context, just as it is important for our coherence across the country and in relations with the outside world. That is why we must work to ensure that aviation is greener. The former government's aviation strategy was aimed at strengthening Denmark's links with the outside world, because they are so important to our society and to our economy, and because it binds us together, supports our business community and tourism, just as it allows us to experience new places and other cultures when Danes leave on holiday, and when we are visited here by tourists from outside Denmark. We in the Social Democratic Party recognise this, and that is why we believe that there is a need for a strong aviation sector in Denmark. But that is only one side of the coin. After all, for the back of the medal, aviation is of great importance to greenhouse gas emissions. - Yeah. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, It was, as it were, devoid of green ambitions. Such a strategy, which relates only to one of several key aspects of aviation, is, of course, not satisfactory. That is why I welcome the initiative for this debate and I am pleased that later this year the government will present a comprehensive plan for the green conversion of aviation, a plan that will direct the way for the Danes to be able to fly green when flying in Denmark by 2030 at the latest. On the short track is the first step that the Danes in 2025 should have the opportunity to fly green on one domestic route. It is an ambitious task and it will not be easy. Fortunately, skilled researchers and companies are working precisely on this, and with the announcement of a green plan for domestic aviation, we have set the ambition and created a demand for the green products that are absolutely necessary for companies to invest in the green solutions for air traffic. We must set ambitious targets so that we constantly push on developments, including in the field of foreign flights. We must be a green pioneer country that finds the balance, because there is no doubt that we must also have a strong aviation sector in Denmark in the future. Let me conclude by saying that I am pleased that we are taking this debate because we need sustained and multifaceted efforts to achieve a green transition to air transport. I look forward to the forthcoming negotiations with Parliament's parties on a new aviation strategy. I have a proposal for adoption by the Social Democratic Party which I read out here: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that aviation has a significant climate impact, but at present has few alternatives to the fossil fuel used today. Policy initiatives are needed to promote the green conversion of aviation. The Danish Parliament notes that aviation is of great importance for Denmark's accessibility to the outside world and helps to support business, tourism, knowledge sharing etc. The green transition to the aviation sector should therefore, as far as possible, take account of the competitiveness of the Danish aviation sector. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government will present a proposal for sustainable air traffic in 2022 and that the parties of the Danish Parliament will be invited to political negotiations as a result. • V 46).
ParlaMint-DK_20220303115924	Thank you for that and the proposal for adoption will also be included in the further negotiations. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303115932	I shall try to know whether there is a difference and what the difference may be between, whether the government will present and now I ask the government party a comprehensive plan or whether it is a new strategy. In this context, I would like to hear about something, for the rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Thomas Jensen, says that you are in favour of a strong aviation industry and that you are aiming to fly completely green domestic by 2030, but, as I pointed out in my rapporteur's speech, that is an infinitely small part of the problem. So will it be taken into account in this either overall plan or new strategy what it might be? I'd like to hear a little bit about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303120024	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303120025	Well, what the government is up to is to come up with a proposal and then call the parties of the Folketing for negotiations, so that we get it broadly based in the Folketing with the future strategy that will be for aviation. I think it is important that we should have a thorough dialogue, including with the industry, and I think that the climate partnership has brought in, as Mr. Henning Hyllested also mentioned, in his rapporteur's speech, to look at such things. Because we must ensure that we do not abolish the possibility that you can fly in and out of Denmark and you can fly inside Denmark, but at the same time we must also put pressure on you to ensure that the green transition is driven on the way. And that's where we're supposed to be realists. Because, as I have also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech here, these are technologies that are in their infancy, and we must not come and make a lot of demands that airlines cannot meet. We need close cooperation, as I see it, so that we ensure that the competitiveness of the Danish aviation sector is also kept to the top, even if we do the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303120130	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303120132	When I am a little sceptical, and I also mentioned it in my rapporteur's speech, in relation to this focus on domestic flights, it is because it is a very, very small part of the problem. And I wonder when we already have the Train Fund DK lying and we have 13 billion. kr. in the infrastructure plan 2035 etc. and so on, why not focus much more on this transport, which is incredibly climate-friendly. I would like to know if any new plan includes an extension, in accordance with the plans so far, of Copenhagen Airport, Kastrup? You've been laid down here because of the pandemic etc. and so on, and perhaps we could call for a moment of hesitation and see how the aviation industry is doing. We know, for example, that SAS is undergoing major transformations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303120222	Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303120224	We should be very happy that we have an airport like Copenhagen Airport, which today is a hub here in Scandinavia, and it must remain so. If you are travelling around the world, you will probably find that when you get back to Copenhagen Airport there are indeed some problems of congestion when you get around the airport, and that is why we can also look at how we can develop our airport, so that it is a good airport to travel to and leave from, and so that the airlines also in the future see it as a hub for Copenhagen Airport. But, of course, we must also help to ensure that this is done with a green transition in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303120305	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303120312	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank you for giving us this debate the opportunity to discuss Danish aviation, because aviation is an important part of the Danish transport sector, and that is why I welcome the fact that with this debate we are putting a sharp emphasis on ways of ensuring the future of air transport. I should like to begin by mentioning something that I think we should send our thoughts in the direction of: the Danish aviation sector, which is currently fighting for life, fighting for jobs and fighting for its survival. Therefore, it is perhaps also a good idea for the Folketing to listen a little to the real world out there and wonder if it is the right signal to send that they should be burdened with new burdens. As far as I am concerned, it certainly is not. But I think we should sign up so that they themselves try to make a bid for it, and I will deal with that a little later. After all, climate change affects all of us. We therefore need a strong response to this if we are to reverse the negative developments that our climate is going through. In other words, of course, we must act. But if we do not act smartly, we also lose a golden opportunity to position Denmark and Danish business at the front of the field of green fuel suppliers. We in the Left believe that we should ensure a market-driven green transition in which we provide our businesses with the best possible framework for developing new innovative solutions. I feel a bit that when at least parts of the left are talking about the green transition, it is often the case that Danish industry is being portrayed as the enemy. It may not be the intention, but I think that's how you're going to experience it. We in the Left believe that we should see our companies as part of the solution, so that we can create more Danish jobs while developing new green solutions that can be exported internationally. That is where I think we should look at aviation's own proposals. After all, they themselves have made proposals and have said how they think things should be done. But there is also the point of remembering that the money remains in the industry and can do good there. Actually, I think that's a good idea. We in the Left also recognise that we must contribute politically to the introduction of electricity for the green conversion and the development of new green fuels. That is why the Left agreed with the agreement in which we set aside 850 million by a broad majority in the Folketing. kr. for the development of Danish power-to-x projects in Denmark and the EU. We in Denmark have a robust research environment and a long tradition of cooperation across sectors, and Denmark therefore has great potential to contribute to the development of green fuels. Because we need the development of green fuels to be accelerated if we are to be able both to meet the need for a green transition and also to have a Danish aviation. This debate is important. We all therefore have a responsibility to ensure that the debate is not stranded. We must seize the opportunity that lies right ahead of us so that we can ensure that Danish industry and the green transition of aviation go hand in hand. At the same time, however, we must also remember to send the message to aviation that we are behind them and we support them. And I'd like to sign for the fact that many of you have been part of the aviation agreement that we made during the corona crisis, because it was important to keep your hand under that profession. And I also hope and believe that they will succeed in getting through it, but we must be ready to help if necessary. May I not just say that if anyone wants to participate and I note that both the rapporteurs and the Minister have said yes, there is an air transport conference here at Christiansborg on 7 April, and I would like to sign that so many, including the Minister, have shown interest in it and are coming. I think that's so beautiful. It is the aviation partners who arrange it, but you know the rules; there must be some of us to keep it here at Christiansborg. I hope that people who have not already signed up will do so. But I sign that so many here have already agreed to them coming. It also shows that you take it very seriously. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303120719	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303120723	Not surprisingly, Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt and the Left have said that development must be market driven. Does this mean that one completely refuses to use, what should one say, political means such as nudging of one kind or another, or whatever one might imagine, to drive progress forward? I would point out that it is true that the climate partnership had an idea that one should be CO2 2 It does not just disappear on its own. It's not unknown that Enhedslisten doesn't think it's going to happen with the market here, but thinks you have to do something. Is it really the position of the Left that we should not interfere in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303120826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303120827	Overall, the Enhedslisten can always count on what I have just said to be the position of the Left. You can be absolutely sure of that. In addition to that, I would like to say that I actually think that the Socialist rapporteur made a good proposal for adoption here, on which we will then only be voting on 15 March, but I think so. I also think that the proposal for adoption contained all the considerations that need to be considered, namely that we should never say anything about anything or say that we know exactly how to cut it. So, in some negotiations, we must, as usual, look at it. On the whole, however, I said that we in the Left believe that we should ensure a market-driven green transition and we believe that this is the case. It is and will be a good idea, and I also believe that it can do it. If it can't, we'll have to look at what options there are. We are very, very much in agreement that we need this green transition to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303120922	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303120924	I am, of course, delighted and, of course, I would also like to draw attention to something about the report that came from the climate partnership, which I would like to emphasise. For Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt said: the Left always says "Uha" when it comes to the market, doesn't it? No, we were very positive about the climate partnership report. In fact, I believe that we were one of the only parties that went out and made it quite clear that it was something that could be used for something and that there were some good and sensible proposals, including the fact that the state is also going in and pushing for development so that it is not just market-based.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303121002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303121003	I agree that development must be pushed forward, but I always think that we should listen to the market that should make this work, and that says that if you make some taxes or whatever you do, you should remember to keep the money in the industry, because then they can use it to make some adjustments. In fact, I think that in the many, many years I have been allowed to be in the Folketing, we have sometimes been wrong in the way that we have not ensured that this money should be used for what we would like to do. They have also been used for a bit of other things. But let us take the negotiations and then we'll look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303121038	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303121052	Thank you. Thank you to Enhedslisten for calling this incredibly important request. It is incredibly crucial that we have a fight with the climate footprint that aviation has in our transport sector today. Air transport is one of the most climate-damaging modes of transport, and for a number of reasons it is partly because of the fuel we use for our aircraft and partly because of the condensation stripes that the rapporteur of Enhedslisten has so rightly mentioned. This means both that we have to make a green change in air transport • that we have to fly on some green fuel, but it also means that we have to fly somewhat less, because the condensation stripes, which are currently a major part of the climate impact of aviation, do not necessarily come to an end with the few green alternatives we are looking at today for aviation fuel. At the same time, aviation is also important for Denmark's access to the world, and this means that we still need aviation. It is important, as the Social Democratic Party has so rightly outlined, for our tourism, for our business, for our diplomacy and other things, and therefore we need to find a way to maintain the possibility, while investing more in alternative modes of transport, which are greener, and ensuring a green transition of aviation as quickly as possible. This means that we must reduce our emissions from aviation both nationally and internationally. Our 70-percent reduction target in Denmark covers only the national and not necessarily the emissions that take up the most from aviation and which are international. That is why we need a new aviation strategy. I would like to agree entirely with Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And that means that the aviation strategy must have a focal point, which is about the green transition, and which is about CO2 I also hear the government recognise, and that is very good, and we in the SF support this. That is why it will be important for us to make new investments in several different things, especially in green aviation fuel, if you can call it that. We have to, because we still need our aviation. However, we also need to invest in alternatives to aviation. I recently drove by night train to Berlin. It's a stretch where it's actually possible to take something other than the plane if you want to. It is, of course, also a stretch where sometimes it may be necessary to fly, but for my part, compared to the purpose I had • it was more than enough to drive down there with the train. That balance is difficult, and we need to invest in making it possible increasingly, while recognising that sometimes it will be necessary to fly. It is also important if we are to ensure that aviation turns green and if we are to ensure other greener alternative modes of transport, that we get an air tax. There are many different ways to make air fares • you can make passenger charges, you can make fuel charges. We all now have a desire for a high, uniform CO2 Our neighbouring countries have charges on aircraft and, at the same time as Denmark has not made it this far, we do have charges on buses and trains, which are greener modes of transport. It is a bias that we must take on board. What that air tax should look like, we have to negotiate. We have already presented, as recently as the autumn, among the support parties, an opportunity for an aircraft tax which has once again come to nothing, and we regret the fact that the government has not yet come to the realization that it is needed here. It does not really make sense that in some cases it is more expensive to take the train to Aalborg than to fly to London. Surely that cannot be right in a modern, climate-friendly society. We have some negotiations ahead of us that we look forward to, and we trust that the government is going to convene and make another move. However, we will still be calling for a change in the Danish aviation strategy to suit the focus on green conversion that we are going to have today. That is why we, the SF, have tabled a proposal for adoption together with the Radical Left, which I shall now read out. Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that aviation is one of the most climate-damaging modes of transport and that there are currently few alternatives to fossil aviation fuels. The Danish Parliament also notes that aviation is a necessary mode of transport for Denmark's ability to reach the world. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government will present a proposal for sustainable air traffic in 2022 and that the parties of the Danish Parliament will be invited to political negotiations as a result. The Danish Parliament calls on the government to change the Danish aviation strategy so that the green transition and the need for CO2 Parliament also calls on the government to invest in transport modes, which are green alternatives to aviation, and to introduce an aviation tax and set binding climate targets for aviation. The Danish Parliament also notes that the green conversion of aviation must be accompanied by efforts to improve the skills and retraining of the aviation industry's employees. • V 47). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303121640	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Then there is a brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303121646	In addition to the fact that we had to fly much more, the old aviation strategy also focused heavily on the expansion of Copenhagen Airport. I would like to know whether this should continue to apply in a possible new aviation strategy or how the SF feels about it when we see something from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303121712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303121713	As far as I am informed and I say that in this way, because SF was not invited to the negotiations the government has made an agreement to expand Copenhagen Airport or at least ensure the basis for it to be done. In this context, I have said that I think it seems untimely, and I think it seems that one has not had a focus at all on how it is compatible with our climate objectives. If you can expand Copenhagen Airport within the objectives of the Paris Agreement and within our Danish climate goals, please be my guest (Third Vice-President in Danish, please! ) Pardon but if not, I think it's a problem. That's what I've been saying. That is why I do not think it is necessary to involve it in an aviation strategy, because it is now a reality through other agreements. However, if it were to, it would be a demand from us that it should be able to meet both international and national climate targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303121811	It is neither English nor French that we speak in the Parliamentary Chamber, but Danish. There was no follow-up brief remark, so thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303121837	Thank you very much for that and also thank you to the Enhedslisten for initiating this excellent debate. Flights are therefore important from the point of view of Radicals and we must continue to fly in the future. But it is also a terrible strain on the climate and, of course, it is not going to work in the long term, so we are at a crossroads as far as our flight is concerned. Fortunately, this is a task that I hear we are all ready to take on. I am critical of the Government's somewhat arbitrary proposal to say that we need to switch one domestic route, because domestic flights are so relatively limited a part of the problem. So that's about. 0,2 million t, domestic flight is expected to derive from CO2 t. There we also have to look at what the Climate Council tells us • the Climate Council that we have asked to guide us on how to conduct a proper climate policy in Denmark. They say that it is not good enough to focus on what happens to count in the Danish goal of 70%. or 80%, or whatever our domestic objective is; we also have to address the emissions that from Denmark contribute to global warming, regardless of whether they count or not in the Danish objective. So here, with the Climate Council's words, foreign air traffic comes in as something we have to address and which we have not yet heard from the government how it intends to address. I look forward to hearing both a play and a call for negotiations. But what we have heard for the time being is not enough for me at the latest in the New Year's speech. It's too little and too late and too short. So the radical proposal has been a contribution to the climate according to the model that the industry has also imagined, and with a climate contribution it is believed that every flight will be charged an extra amount that goes into a climate fund that can be used to develop and produce green fuels. The amount we envisage from the Radicals is considerably higher than what aviation imagines. We imagine that it will start at a hundred laps for the very short trips and, moreover, rise so that on a journey to the other side of the globe we will have to expect to pay for a significant part of the pollution inflicted on the planet, for example. be 500 kroner. on top of the ticket price to Thailand or something in that order, but it's all published how we see it here for us. This money, if you imagine the radical proposal, would, when we reach 2030, cut one third of our foreign aviation emissions, i.e. one million. t of the 3 million I believe that we will both allow people to fly, but at the same time we will have a less harmful flight at this extra cost, and we will take a serious ride with the challenge we have: we want to fly in the future, but we do not have the right technologies, so we will invest massively in them. I see for myself a production of these green fuels in Copenhagen, in Denmark, where, with our renewable energy and with biogenic CO2 I think it's going to happen here in Copenhagen, among other things, and I also think that this conversion is going to be a huge competitive advantage, among other things. for Copenhagen Airport, if it's from here, you fly green if this is where the green planes take off. I can see that as a positive story instead of this slightly backward-looking one, with the fact that we are now the last country in our wider local area that does not have an air tax. I would much rather say with pride that it is we who contribute to the solution of the problem. We are contributing to a text of adoption together with the SF, in which the word air transport tax is included. I have to specify that I mean climate contributions here. I therefore believe that this is an amount which should be charged to the ticket price and which should then remain in the industry specifically for the development of these green fuels. That is our definition of aviation tax: it is a climate contribution. Thank you once again for the initiative for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303122243	There are no brief comments. So thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur, and then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303122251	Thank you for that and thank you to the Enhedslisten for raising the debate here in Parliament today. In his New Year's speech, the Prime Minister announced new goals for how we address CO2 From 2025 we will have a green domestic route in Denmark, while from 2030 it will apply to all domestic flights. It may sound ambitious, and so is it, but I really believe that we can do more if we look at this a little bit wider. Firstly, it is very, very expensive to buy green aviation fuel, i.e. what is called sustainable aviation fuel or SAF. Companies such as Finnish Neste and Italian Eni already produce large quantities of SAF. At the same time, the green fuel partnership between good companies such as Mærsk, DSV, Copenhagen Airport, DFDS, SAS and Ørsted has a goal to start production at home. But regardless of that, the price of the green fuel is up to three or four times higher than the price of fossil fuel. That is why I believe that we need to raise these inclusion requirements, as has already been said by aviation itself. At the same time, I have to say that if you are planning to convert to 100%. SAF, it will then require a separate fuel infrastructure at all airports throughout the country, which will also be very expensive. Today, domestic air travel accounts for 0.5%. of Denmark's total CO 2 2 Therefore we need to look not only at investments, but at all flights from Danish airports, and the aviation industry itself is very ambitious on this point. One of the most important measures in the aviation industry's 2030 plan is the proposal for the introduction of the incorporation requirement for the entire aviation sector. That means 30 percent. the fuel consumption of aircraft by 2030 shall be sustainable. The industry itself proposes a steady increase in mixing requirements with a gradual increase year by year; then we can create a predictability around the framework and, by providing certainty for future demand, at the same time give fuel producers a greater incentive to develop and scale up the production of new green fuels. If the government does not provide a predictable framework for demand, producers simply will not invest enough in the supply. We already know that by 2025 Denmark will be required by the EU to introduce a mixing requirement for SAF of 2%. for all flights leaving Danish airports. That is why we might as well get started at home, so that the industry gets the head start that they so desperately need, especially in view of the current situation in the industry. Similarly, we should live up to our status as a green forerunner by setting a higher mixing requirement than the absolute minimum set by the European Union. Sweden has already introduced a displacement requirement of 0.8%, rising to 27 per cent. in 2030, as far as I remember, and Norway has introduced an incorporation requirement of 0.5%, rising to 30%. in 2030. We are lagging behind our Nordic neighbours, and if we do not take action now, we risk becoming the Nordic fossil service station for aircraft. Whatever the case, it is not free to mix green fuels in the tank for all aircraft taking off from Denmark either. The aviation industry itself has proposed a model for how to finance the most ambitious objective, where this should be done through a climate fund, which imposes a modest tax of DKK 20-30 on all flights. The money is then returned to the industry to cover the price difference between fossil and sustainable fuel. By this we ensure that all Danish air passengers know that their money is actually spent on a direct CO2 I mean, by the way, that the amount of this 20-30 DKK. is relatively essential, because that is not where we have the difference, compared to when Mr. Henning Hylllested, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt and I, who all of us live near Billund Airport, do not drive to Hamburg and fly from there and use CO2 Those were the words from here, and I would like to thank you very much for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303122742	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303122746	I just want to hear about something. Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen talks a lot about this mixing requirement. It is true that this is also a proposal from the climate partnership. But it doesn't matter what you get mixed up in, if I may say so. There is, of course, a standing discussion on this. After all, the Climate Council and others are questioning it, that is to say, if biofuels are supposed to be mixed in, then this is in fact a questionable mixing requirement, which may not help the climate very much, and there are many reasons why I do not need to list them here. So what does the rapporteur think we are talking about when we talk about mixing?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303122829	Thank you for that question. That is precisely why I mention Neste and Eni at the beginning of my speech here, because they have these artificially produced fuels, which are not biofuels, but 100 per cent artificially produced, and which therefore do not have a CO2 because it is true that there has been little doubt about that or there is some doubt about it, one can say.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303122858	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303122859	One of the major problems with such fuels is their availability. There may in fact be too little, because it is widely sought in the transport sector, and there are a great many about the offer, if I may say so. So what you have to bet on in relation to the aviation industry is probably some kind of power-to-x. This is also the message of the climate partnership. I guess it's really about creating a market for it. That's why, of course, it's fine with the different actions that are • cooperation here around Ørsted and Copenhagen Airport, but also elsewhere in the country. So this is basically the way we are going, rather than investing in fuels that are widely sought in the transport industry, but which are questionable in terms of environmental considerations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303122947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303122948	Well, I totally agree with Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested in. This whole Climate Fund is actually about making sure there's an offshoot in sustainable aviation fuels so we can get there. There is this curiosity about developing an entirely new fuel infrastructure for airports if you are going to have 100 per cent, and that is why I believe that the way is to follow the aviation proposal on this long-term mixing requirement for sustainable aviation fuels. This is the right way to go, because we cover both domestic and foreign flights, and so we retain Denmark's position as the leading aviation nation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123029	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, so we shall continue with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123038	It is clear that aviation plays a role in relation to the measures that we are going to take on the road to more climate-friendly transport, and with us I mean both the Folketing and the state, but it is also the people who should perhaps not fly and take holidays in Denmark; it is also the industry itself. So it's not us, but we're gonna have to decide on this, because it's definitely important. But the aviation industry is still under pressure here in the stream of the Coronapandemic, so let us give the industry a chance to land before we turn their everyday lives upside down again. In the old days, when it was other modes of transport, I think it was said that the horse should be applauded before action is taken. Now we will just let the companies land. A new strategy is certainly necessary for the future, which is why it is good that we have the discussion, because in general there is a great deal going on in the field of technological development and the green transition. That is where we must ensure that our strategies are consistent with developments, so I also think it is good that it is included in the proposal for adoption by the Socialists and also in some of the others that there will be a new strategy, which we will then be discussing here in 2022. I think that is what the text said. It is all very well, but for the Danish People's Party it makes sense that we take things in the right order, so let us first get the industry back on its feet after the pandemic, and then let us get a new strategy together, which must of course also look at climate, but not only at climate, because the aviation industry also has many other important aspects. It can be economic growth. There are a lot of people who are employed in the industry. This is something that also helps many other industries to be in employment. Our companies can meet their customers. Customers and suppliers come and visit Danish companies etc. Tourism is huge, also in Denmark. But an important point that has not been mentioned by others is the cohesion between the parts of the country, so that you actually have the opportunity to come from North Jutland to Copenhagen with a plane. I think that is important too. It helps bind our country together. I understand that it is trains too, and it is only good if people take the train, so the plane is also part of that solution. To sum up, I would say that I think it would be good to have a new strategy, like there to be more focus on climate than there was in the old one, but not only with a focus on climate. So there are a great many other parameters that need to be considered, and I also have a small appeal to make that we are also thinking about the difficult situation in which industry is currently on the other side of a corona crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123304	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123306	I am glad that the rapporteur actually mentions the alternatives that are also, which will actually help to reduce the flight, in other words that we will have fewer flights or perhaps shorter flights, so people, for example. on holiday in Denmark or in nearby countries, so you don't absolutely have to fly damn violence to take a vacation. We could also mention homework, everything that has arisen now in connection with the pandemic, homework, video meetings and such things. Nevertheless, the rapporteur says that we must now also take it easy, because the aviation industry is down, the airlines are down, and that is undoubtedly right. The problem is just that, alongside, in parallel with, you can almost say, the climate crisis is hurling out of there, and we have just received a new report from the ICCP which says that it may be too late and that we now need to prepare ourselves for the water rise, and what do I know as there is. So the question is, do we have time for that, sir? Dennis Flydtkjær?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123414	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123415	I understand the dilemma, because this is the right time to tighten the screw for the aviation industry, but I just don't think it is now. I believe that this can have the opposite effect, because if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. If people are driving to Hamburg to fly, have we solved something instead of flying from Billund in a more environmentally friendly way? However, as has also emerged from the discussion, I also believe that we need to recognise that, although the climate crisis is urgent, there are just a lot of technological developments that are not yet ready. I noticed the debate between the questioner and the Conservative rapporteur on what is happening in relation to power-to-x, power to x, which is a Danish expression of what was going on that development is not quite clear yet. I think it will be super exciting and super good, and that you can make some alternatives that might completely replace the fossil fuel, but if only make an incorporation requirement, so that you can at least have a more green transport. It is urgent, but technology may not quite be there yet, so it is not easy to answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123507	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123508	No, that is undoubtedly true, but I do not actually agree that technology is not there. We know the technology to be used, and what this is all about is actually creating a market for it. It will also all the other equals help to lower the price, of course it will. And I guess that's what this is all about. As far as I am concerned, technological development is in place, as far as I am concerned, in any case, and that is also why when you are so close and when you have the technology present, why not push forward as hard as you can, even if we are dealing with an industry which has been through some hard years?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123549	In fact, I would agree with the questioner. I think it is true that some of the technology is probably out there, but the problem is that there may be a great deal of no scale on it, so that you simply cannot produce the large quantities if you make an international claim, for example. 30% something faster than 2030, because then you just don't have the opportunity to get these things. If nothing else, it will be quite expensive, because the market is under pressure, and demand has been wiped out, so if we demand our airlines, for example. 30%, the price will be inappropriately high, and then you will take a plane from Germany instead. So there is no easy solution. You may have found the technology, but it still takes a few years before it's out and before it's scalable so you can use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123630	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I do not see any more rapporteurs who want to speak before the Minister, so go to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123644	Thank you for the exciting debate, and I think it has indeed been. What I am bringing back is that everyone agrees that we must fly greener, we must have new technological solutions and the green aspect must fill more of our aviation strategy. So there is not really anything to disagree with today's debate. Probably the hard part is somewhere else: when decisions are to be made. For then it is, of course, that we are faced with decisions about speed, funding and the social profile. We are going to be faced with the child who has the challenges of visiting his parent who lives far away, we are going to be stuck with the family who has been saving up for a long time for a charter holiday that suddenly becomes more expensive, and we are going to be stuck with the business travellers where it does not matter whether there is an additional bill on the journey because the company pays it. So it is more to say that it is gratifying that everyone agrees on the direction and the intentions, but I have no doubt that the hard thing comes when it comes to realising it. And I think we all know very well that we are faced with really difficult dilemmas. But I am taking the good kicks that have come today into the government's further work, and then I look forward to discussing this much more when we come up with our proposal and you will be invited to negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123833	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123835	Thank you. To be invited to negotiations, I think it's fine. But may I not allow myself to ask, 'Tell me, when will that come?' Because we have been calling for it for quite, quite a long time, at least on the part of the Enhedslisten, but other parties have also called for it. I cannot understand why there has been one, let me just call it the sluggishness of something to come out with, because there is a huge need, especially when compared with the existing aviation strategy, which is hopeless. And that is, in fact, what we are basing ourselves on, because it is the adopted aviation strategy. We can't even be familiar. I don't think anyone's running around today with a mop boy like that and highlighting it. So, when does anything come from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123927	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303123928	Well, now I'm also an impatient person of nature, so I kind of share Mr. Henning Hyllested's wish that we can start tomorrow. It's not that easy. As I said before, there are many difficult dilemmas that need to be weighed against each other, and it has not become easier on top of the current situation, where Russia has put massive pressure and where restrictions have been imposed. So it's more to say that this isn't easy and that it won't be any easier in the future either. But decisions need to be taken in this area, because we cannot just sit back and wait for the world to turn green, because the world is not turning green by itself; that means we need to drive it forward politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124013	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124015	I am very pleased that the Minister says that the world is not turning green by itself. No, it does not; it does so only as a result of political decisions enabling a rapid green transition. And that's kind of just what I'm looking for. I fully agree that the situation at the moment is after the pandemic and Ukraine, and I shall give you, I shall be so romantic. I fully agree with that, and that, of course, presents some challenges. But vice versa, as I also said to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, the climate crisis is blundering out there. We have to do something, and we have to do something fast or we're in water to our necks.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124059	I agree that we need to move fast. There are some new things that we need to take cutlery off as the world looks right now. But I agree that we are busy in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124113	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124116	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. I was a little aware that the Minister is saying this about children who need to be transported across the country, where it can be difficult and it can be expensive. There have been many figures in the debate over the last few years. I believe that it was in 2020 that the aviation industry came up with their proposals where they talk about that per year. ticket must be added 20-30 kr. in a fund that ensures the pull off of the ptx. There has also been a figure that says it should be about 500 kroner. per Ticket, which then has to go directly into the Treasury. What is the Minister's position on the proposals that have been made?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124152	Now, in fact, I was talking about children who have parents who live in other countries and who have to fly, because DSB, with their child service, has an excellent arrangement for those children. After all, these are some of the dilemmas we are looking at, because what is it you have to weigh? We haven't settled on that yet. What we are looking at is what the consequences will be. I think that is the right way to do it. We need to have a clear picture of what the consequences are of the charges we decide on if we decide on charges or the consequences of other means of action.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124235	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124236	Can the Minister then try to put some words on the benefits of the money staying in the aviation industry so that they themselves secure the pull off of the ptx and the benefits that the Minister sees by the money going directly into the treasury?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124251	I think that's obvious to most people. But I must also say very clearly that we will not be going anywhere in this area either if we are not prepared to make massive investments. What has to do this is also a political will to give priority to money in this area, because one thing is the discussion on taxes and the isolated system, but another thing is that if we are to push this development forward, it also requires a solid political and economic boost.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124325	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124327	I do not, in fact, disagree with what the Minister is saying, and I do not think that Niels Flemming Hansen is either. Perhaps we would just like to know on which side the Minister stands. Because I think the Minister has said many good things about the fact that we must have aviation, both for the sake of the people, tourism and everything else, and that is quite right, but what does the Minister say about the model presented by aviation itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124353	I would like to take the liberty of sitting down and looking at the different models that lie • because there are many different models and also getting some proper impact calculations on them. I think that is the proper way to do it, even when you come in as a new minister, in other words to get an overview of what needs to be done. I have already met with the first aircraft manufacturer in this area and talked to them about what it really is for opportunities that lie in meeting the goals we have set very clearly by Denmark in terms of domestic air traffic. In other words, it is clear that it requires all good hands, and it requires a high degree of creativity, and it also requires a willingness on the part of some producers, which I believe also bears a share of responsibility in this area. But that is why we need a whole strategy to ensure that all aspects are included.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124454	Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124455	Well, you're allowed to come up with a new strategy. The strategy we have at the moment, I heard that Mr. Henning Hylllested said something about it, but sir... Henning Hyllested is specially intended to read the preparatory work, which was fantastic. But I would just like to say that I actually think what the Minister is saying is quite right, so that we should of course be able to make those calculations and so on. So I'm only gonna sign for that. It would also be natural for a new minister, because in the great aviation debate we can quickly get caught up in something, and I would just like to sign off on that for the Minister to come to the aviation conference. I would just like to ask whether the Minister believes that it is in the foreseeable future that these calculations will be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124537	Well, we have it next week? No, it is not, and I do not believe that the situation exists either. I mean, there are a lot of new relationships that I think it would be wise to take a second look at. But when we talk about 2022, it is 2022, so it is this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124605	Thank you for that to the Minister of Transport. There are no more brief comments. And then, sir... Henning Hyllested as rapporteur for the questioners asked for the floor just to wind up the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303124620	Well, thank you for the debate and thank you for it, I think, positive reception of the initiative. I think it has clearly emerged that there is a huge need to discuss this here and that, as the Minister said, it is now also a question of taking decisions so that we can drive progress forward. So it is quite clear with this debate that all the parties have moved wildly. I mean, we don't have to go back many years until not a lot of people talked, yes, partly climate, but there was no talk of air traffic at all in this regard. And I must promise that today's debate has made it quite clear that there are no parties today that have not announced that air traffic is incredibly climate-laden and that something needs to be done. Then we do not agree on all the instruments, certainly not, but, after all, it is a good basis to go to negotiations on agreeing on what the problem is. And I think that today's debate has revealed that, and I think that is very good. I would say that I think that we have come a little off the rails in the ordinary debate. I think that this intense focus on domestic air traffic, which is an infinitely small part, is the problem when we look at Denmark, is helping to give a skewed approach. First of all, it is foreign traffic that is the major problem in the revelation or what is said. Somehow I think that should be addressed much more. I actually agree that this is not easy. I have said several times today that we have to do something that the climate crisis is rushing out there. The reports coming from the UN climate panel and elsewhere are becoming more and more gloomy. So something has to happen, and now that the aviation industry is one of the great animals of the revelation, negative, that is also where we have to intervene, that is where the problem is, and that is foreign traffic. I myself have tried to point out on several occasions today that, apart from the fact that I believe that we must somehow restrict air traffic, there must also be some alternatives. I have pointed out on several occasions that we in Denmark have not least adopted an excellent plan to speed up rail traffic, and that would be a very good alternative and therefore a realistic alternative to domestic and air traffic, namely in the form of the Togfonden DK Foundation, which was supposed to bring people from Copenhagen to Aalborg in 3 hours. And then suddenly you're competitive with the car, but actually also with the plane. I can see it in my own city: There is 3 hours of train transport between Copenhagen and Esbjerg there is well over 21⁄2 if I change in Odense and there hasn't been a flight for 15 or 20 years from Esbjerg. This simply cannot be done because the train is so competitive and, of course, the car too. So there's every reason to dust off that train fund and move it forward in the Infrastructure Plan 35 plan, because it's gonna be collecting and dust by 2030, and I can be afraid that somebody will run out of it by then, remembering Kattegat connection, and what do I know? And, of course, I would like to strike a blow for that. In addition to transport, there are also the alternatives which have been listed and which we have seen here during the pandemic. There's technology for video meetings, homework and stuff like that. And we can see that this is some of the things that are actually causing problems for SAS now, because there has been a huge drop, and they predict that this drop will be there in the future too, in business travel, which SAS had been particularly keen on. And that is why they are now, if I may say so, changing their focus to the leisure travel segment of air traffic. This will put them in direct competition with all the low-cost companies, and I am excited to see how they will go. But thank you for today's debate. I think it's been very rewarding. I think there have been a great many good contributions in spite of the differences, and I believe that the negotiations we are facing will, after all, be sensible and produce a good result.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303125103	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Henning Hylllested. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday 15 March 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303125119	The debate is open, and the first to speak on the draft law is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr President. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303125144	Thank you very much for the floor, President, and thank you to the Minister for making this proposal. Social democracy can support that. I was a short time ago in friends' layers, where we talked about childhood, and there I allowed myself to make some reference to J. M. Barrie's universe, as he wrote in 1911, namely the story of Peter Pan, who tours around the Wing Island in the company of Indians, with pirates, the forgotten boys, mermaids and everything that belongs in a child's universe. With the opening words, I would like to emphasise that childhood is extremely important. Youth is incredibly important. You only have one childhood, and you only have one youth. It is therefore also important that both our children and young people experience that they are part of a strong, solid and inclusive community, a community without bullying, where children and young people experience a childhood and youth free of bullying. Many are very important stakeholders in this regard, both parents, teachers and educators, school managers and the environment at all. It is very important that we here in the Danish Parliament have an effort, and we have a focus on the crucial part about avoiding bullying from our youth. But it's often harder than it just sounds, and that's why we have to do things right when we do something in here from this house. We are incredibly satisfied in the Social Democratic Party that our Minister for Education succeeded in establishing a very strong cooperation around the school. In fact, we believe that it is through community that it is through cooperation that it is through strong ownership that we develop child life, youth life and, above all, education together and thus also the fight against bullying. It is together, and it is together that the initiatives must be in relation to combating, countering and, above all, very important to prevent bullying. It is also an element on which we have a very, very strong focus in the Committee on Children's and Education. It is no more than 24 hours ago that we had a meeting with stakeholders in relation to bullying. It was the Danish Centre for the Education Environment, it was the School Leader Association, it was Danish School Students, and it was School and Parents. When we talk about bullying, it is very important to have a very strong student perspective, but it is also important that there is very strong ownership for the stakeholders who sit out there. Social democracy helped adopt the Education Environment Act in 2017, which has a very strong focus on the fight against bullying. We would very much like there to be a review body, but we are also of the very clear conviction that when there are consultation answers that point to challenges, we think it is essential to discuss it with the parties in relation to the school. I must also say that in the discussions that we have had in the Parliamentary Committee on Children's and Education, there are some things that come to the surface that I think are worth spending time on, worth being wiser, worth being curious about so that we can get the best possible effort. What is really so pleasing when we discuss with the parties is that nobody disagrees with the need to have a youth and a childhood free from bullying. It is about getting there together and getting there together, so we support this bill to postpone the sunset clause, spend the time wisely in the sense, I think, the forum we have got around together around the school and then get things done right, perfect in terms of a targeted and proper effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303125627	Thank you for that, sir. Anders Kronborg. There are no brief comments, so we can proceed in the rapporteur's line to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303125636	Thank you for the floor. Since the usual rapporteur from the Left cannot be present in this Chamber today, I have promised to read the rapporteur's speech. Bullying causes scars on soul and body in everything, too many children and young people. Bullying takes place in the classrooms, in the schoolyard and even on social media. The bullying has long since penetrated the children's rooms, and it is not something to escape when it rings out after the last hour. In far too many cases bullying puts a heavy stone in the backpack, which weighs and hurts throughout life. We all know that for those children and young people where bullying is most brutal, it can end in tragic suicide attempts and ultimately in suicide. I know young people who end up in long courses of treatment in psychiatry as a result of bullying, while others do not get the bullying done, and where it gives poor self-esteem and results later in life. Regardless of how and when bullying and its consequences affect, bullying is something that we must make a clear stand against. For the Left, the fight against bullying has been a matter that we have been focusing on for many years, for decades, and we must do more to put an end to bullying and its immorality and to avoid the scars of body and soul and the consequences of bullying, and we must focus on the broad part of bullying. This applies to both children and young people who are affected by the bullying, but we must also combat the unhealthy environments and cultures associated with the bullying. Therefore, we in the Left Government in 2016 made the first national anti-bullying agreement, where we among other things. An anti-bullying strategy was introduced and the National Complaints Board against Bullying was set up. We also made the whole action plan earlier that year together with the Children's Council, Children's Conditions and Save the Children, where we had the Mary Foundation as a professional sparring partner. Here we agreed to stand together to combat bullying, because the children who are subjected to bullying need some adults to take responsibility. And responsibility is actually what this bill, L 143, is also about. Will we, as responsible parties, take responsibility for perpetualising the Appeals Board against Bullying, or will we just slip off on our responsibilities and only extend by one year so that there remains uncertainty, instability and ambiguity about the future of the National Complaints Board against Bullying in Denmark? In the left we choose the first. We want to take responsibility for combating bullying and ensuring the means of redress for those children and their parents who do not receive the help they are entitled to. That is why I have already asked the Minister for technical assistance for an amendment to this draft law, L 143, so that we can ensure the permanentisation of the National Appeals Board against Bullying. I hope that the majority of Parliament's parties will support this amendment so that we can jointly take responsibility for combating bullying. Then we can then make all the improvements and adjustments that are needed, as the evaluation has rightly pointed out, and which could have been included long ago in this draft law, if the Socialist Government had had the will to do so. We can discuss the improvements in the school together and other relevant forums, but on the basis of a permanentisation and not with the uncertainty created by a one-year extension. The review of the Appeals Board against Bullying unfortunately underlines that bullying is still widespread in the country's schools, that the use of the Appeals Board against Bullying is increasing, that parents see the Appeals Board against Bullying as important, and that the Appeals Board against Bullying's decisions contribute to greater compliance by the administration and school boards with the legal procedures relating to bullying. Therefore, the Appeals Board against Bullying must be made permanent. The permanentisation was also the focal point of the Left's motion for a resolution B 9, which you all welcomed when we dealt with it in this Chamber in the autumn. That is why I also hope that you will allow action to follow words and vote in favour of our amendments to this bill, so that we can have the Appeals Board permanentized against Bullying, as both child organisations, pupil organisations and parents' organisations also want and have asked for in their hearing response to the evaluation. The Left looks forward to the committee reading, in which we hope to obtain support for our amendments so that we can take joint responsibility to strengthen the fight against bullying. I should also like to welcome the Conservative People's Party, which unfortunately could not be present in this Chamber today, and to say that they, like the Left, want to see the National Appeals Board permanently set up against bullying. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303130125	Thank you, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, from the Left. There are no brief comments, so we thank and welcome Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303130147	Thank you. With the bill, we postpone the decision to make the appeal body permanent. However, there should be no doubt that we in the SF believe that the appeal body should be made permanent. When we come to vote in favour of today, we really want to listen to the cooperation called Together on School, with which we have had very good experiences lately, and have a very good discussion about what we need to change in order to achieve a better implementation of it. The legislative monitoring report recommends that the sunset clause be repealed and that the provision on complaints and a review body be made permanent. At the same time, we can also see in the evaluation that there are some challenges that we must have looked at. 85% of the parents have not heard of the Board of Appeal • 85%. of parents who have expressed dissatisfaction with school management have simply not been informed of their remedies. We can also see from the evaluation that the work of the review body is hampered by the fact that it comes in too late, that it can help with the handling and indeed also with the prevention, because at that time the pupil has either changed school or has felt so bad that he or she stays at home and does not want to go to school. Schools also have challenges working according to administrative principles because they are not used to it. This means that there is insufficient evidence and that the complaints bodies have difficulty dealing with the cases. Of course, we listen to it when School and Parents, the Danish Teachers' Association and the School Leader Association believe that they would rather see the complaint body abolished and the problems solved locally. But why is there a need for a review body? In the SF we would prefer that we did not need a review body because then we took care of the problems out there when there was bullying at the individual school. And many of the schools do well, but there are also schools and classes where that does not happen. This shows the increase in the number of complaints where more than half of them are actually successful in their complaints. The content of the complaints actually shows the same. The majority of them are from parents who find that they are not recognised in the fact that their child is being bullied and the school simply does not recognise that the child is being bullied, and that is a challenge in itself. This is about the kids and the kids who experience bullying. It can be really devastating, and no children should experience that no action is taken if they are bullied. It affects a child's upbringing, and big, deep scars follow with the rest of his life, which is why it is so important that we take action against bullying. That said, it is our perspective and our attitude towards the future work. We vote in the SF for the bill and look forward to further discussions with Together on the School to ensure that we can have a much better implementation out in reality. And then I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, who could not be here, and say that the Enhedslisten will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303130509	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we would like to thank the SF rapporteur and move on to Mr SF's report. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303130532	Now I had just got used to the idea of going on much later in relation to the series of speeches, but then I came up here quickly anyway. That fg. President The first will be the last). That's the way it is. This is important. It is important to make an effort to avoid bullying everywhere. That is also why we adopted the law on, among other things. an appeal body back in 2017. Back then, the focus of the Danish People's Party, that is, what we see as the most important thing, is to do what we can to ensure that bullying does not take place. Where it is going, we need effective tools to stop it, and that is in that light, we need to see demands for anti-bullying strategy, demands for action plans for incidents and redress. In the first instance, complaints can be made to the municipal council and then to the appeal body DCUM. The discussion back in 2017 took place among other things. Whether it will not be a bureaucratic system and whether it will actually have an effect. My position and that of the Danish People's Party was, and is, that a complaint body is important to signal that we do not accept municipalities and schools that do not take the task seriously. And if there is no body that can literally beat the municipalities in the head, then we are afraid that it will not work. In the Danish People's Party we absolutely believe that the system should be permanent, but we also believe that we should take the opportunity to now look through the system and see if it needs to be adjusted. Among other things: In the evaluation of the 2020 scheme, there was a problem that there is no clear and unambiguous understanding of what the purpose of the anti-bulb strategy, the case management, the injunction and the media are and what these things are expected to solve. And equally important is that there is no clear understanding of what it is not expected to solve. It is simply unclear to parents and school leaders. The aim of the law should of course be to put pressure on, so that the problems are taken seriously at the individual school and in the individual municipality. Therefore, a review body combined with help and guidance for those who then want to work properly and specifically with the problems. However, if the objectives, objectives and intentions of the scheme are thus unclear, then I think it makes very good sense to have a dialogue together on the school and also with the involvement of other relevant parties with the clear aim of establishing a permanent arrangement. Therefore, the Danish People's Party can support this bill. We are also happy to support it being made permanent, but perhaps, in cooperation, we can find a way of describing that permanentisation must include a review, an evaluation and an improvement of the system, so that we end up with a better system than we have today and so that we get rid of the challenges and problems of the current system. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303130814	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303130818	I am simply going to sign, because I think it was an incredibly strong speech made by the rapporteur and, in fact, I think that a very constructive speech in terms of actually focusing on what we know is working and also looking at where the stone in the shoe is. There is a figure that has made an enormous impact on me when we talk about the review body and which I think it is very important to talk to Together about the school. When the appeal body has made a decision, that is, when they have reached a decision, it is 50 per cent. of the decisions they make so that the child concerned has already moved to school. I just want to emphasise this point made by the rapporteur: this is also about getting in and preventing it. Some parents may be successful, but in some cases it has actually been so traumatic that a child has had to change school before a decision has been reached. So I would just like to sign for the thoroughness that I think the rapporteur is proposing in relation to further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303130921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303130922	Thank you for that comment. I would say to it that this was one of the issues that was also debated when we adopted the law. Here it was really, very important for me and the Danish People's Party to focus on the preventive action, the guiding action, everything that could be done earlier in the hope that there would actually be no complaints to the appeal body. It is, of course, important to maintain that it should be there, because it turns out that there is a need for some who are like backstoppers. However, we must make a clear effort to get that guidance out, also to help schools and municipalities understand what is their responsibility and what task they can be expected to solve. I think we are in complete agreement on this, and I hope that we will be able to reflect this in the new law that we are going to end up doing with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303131009	The questioner? No. Then there are no more brief comments, so we thank Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens, whom I would like to welcome in the Chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303131031	There should be no doubt that we in New Citizens would like to set up the school system quite differently than it is today. We would like to give all schools a letter of freedom, set schools free. We would like to let the money follow the individual child one to one and let the good, skilled managers teach parents on the boards to manage how the individual school should be organized. It would also mean that good offers would be chosen and that bad offers, such as those we are talking about today, would be rejected. Then you'd have to get up or close. The school system does not look like this today, and that is why we are supporting this proposal. Because we generally think it makes a great deal of sense that you can complain if you experience your child being bullied. I am a schoolteacher myself, and it has always been something that has been very close to my heart that the children I had in my class were well off basically. Because it is so fundamental that you can learn anything at all that you thrive and feel good. Not long ago I heard a story about a child in a school where there had simply been complaints and complaints and complaints to the management and teachers, etc. of these parents, and the management and the teachers kept saying it was this child's fault that it was its own fault that that was the problem. When I hear stories like this, I'm really cold, 'cause this kid was obviously not responsible for anything. There was just a dysfunctional culture in the class, and it just wasn't handled. It wasn't handled that this kid was feeling really bad, and then the baby ended up changing school. It's not supposed to be like that. We fully support the extension of this legislation, in other words the postponement of the sunset clause. We also support the amendment that I could understand coming from the Left to make this system permanent, because we think it is basically so important to be able to complain. Of course I believe that the vast majority of places are really making an effort, but there are also some places where you close your eyes. I shall not be able to say whether it is because it is the easiest thing, but there are some places where you at least close your eyes to the fact that there are some children who are miserable and there must be an opportunity for parents to complain higher in the system. So we support the proposal and the amendment from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303131322	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank Mrs Mette Thiesen. And then it looks like we can welcome the Minister for Children and Education to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303131340	Thank you. And thank you for your support for the proposal. I fully agree with the rapporteurs who have been up here one after the other to say that bullying is one of the most serious problems that can be faced as a student in the Danish primary school. And what we have to bear in mind here is that we can actually do something about it. There are plenty of problems around the school that can be really difficult for society to do something about, but that is how you look at it historically, you will see that you have actually managed to break the bully curve, and this has happened by both making political decisions and having a close collaboration with the school on how to approach it. In other words, both with a modern bully view, but also with common help, and with a political desire for it, we have actually managed to break the bully curve, and I think that is what is giving blood to the tooth in order to tackle some of the major problems that are around bullying and that are developing in these years. In the old days, you were used to the fact that if there was bullying, it stopped when the school day stopped, because then you came home to yourself and got the freedom from the bullying, it was to be at home. Today it is the case that bullying comes home and into the nursery, because children and young people have the phone with them, which means that you can reach out for each other, even when you are at home. I think that for all those who have tried to be bullied, it's a nightmare scenario to imagine that you don't even have the space, it's being at home. So there is no doubt that some of the bullying problems that have always been around the school are reinforced by the fact that social media play the role they are doing today and by the fact that children and young people have the telephone in the way they have today. I would say about the whole debate on permanentisation or not that it is such a rather funny size, because I actually hear that we all agree on permanentisation. So what is important to me in this context is that the Social Democrats want permanentisation unchanged; that part, at least for us, is really not at all open to debate. On the other hand, I am adamantly opposed to the way in which the primary school has been run for decades, because you think that you just make legislation from Christiansborg, and then everything is good. I simply do not like that and it is reflected in the way we have chosen to build up cooperation around primary school, i.e. by having established Together on the school where we involve pupils and teachers and educators and managers and parents thoroughly and deeply in the decisions that are being made. And it takes some time. So, what is with democracy is that it takes time, but most of us actually like it quite well, which is why it is a good idea to take the time it takes. I understand the impatience and that it is said: would it not be better for us to just make it permanent now? And I can also understand the room it provides for those people who work with it in concrete terms in the review body. However, I believe that we need the deep anchoring that lies in our being together on the solutions we are creating. This is not an area where there is agreement; it is not the case that all the parties around the primary school simply agree on the solution. Well, if that were the case, it would be easy to just say: well, then we'll just do it permanently right away. In fact, there are different views and different positions in this area, and all the more so it is simply important that we talk to the core of sensibleness which necessarily lies in any position around the school and then find solutions in which we can all see ourselves. So I think that, especially when there is disagreement, there is actually good reason to spend the time it takes to find solutions that make real sense. That is why I am also pleased with the support in this Chamber for us to spend that time. And then I would say, and sometimes the words are less than what they really mean: I am deeply and deeply grateful for the cooperation we have got up with the parties of the Folketing to cooperate with the parties around the school. The agreement we made on the future evaluation and assessment system has proved successful, and I believe that most of the people who have followed the school debate will know that we have had a rather different opinion on national tests, social law between the parties, in society as such, the parties around the school, and that means that when I say that the cooperation has passed its final test with that agreement, it is simply because we managed to reach an agreement which the parties of the Danish Parliament are behind, which the parties around the folk school are behind, and where they have jointly said: well, it may well be that each of us has not got everything, but we can see that there is a common crowd that is so large that we support the overall agreement. It should be borne in mind that the Danish primary school is done by pupils who come from home where you vote for Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl; of students coming from home, voting for Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk; of pupils coming from home, voting for the Social Democracy and for us as a government, and the diversity of the school into which you enter. Everyone must be able to see themselves in primary school, no matter where they belong politically, no matter what way they want primary school to turn, and if that is to be possible, we will actually have to listen to each other very carefully, which is why this cooperation is absolutely crucial. And that is why I am not standing here today with a bill on permanentisation. I think we should take the time it takes to get these things to land somewhere where we can see ourselves... the parties and parties in Parliament... in it. So thank you very much for your cooperation on this, and thank you also for your impatience. Now it's the most Left that presents its impatience. I like the enthusiasm that is always on the Left in relation to the particular issue of bullying; I think it suits the Folketing that it is also present. But I am also looking forward to working together to find a proper solution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303131917	You're welcome. There are no brief comments to the Minister. As there are no more of those on the list who wish to speak, the negotiations have been concluded. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303131946	Before we begin with the question, I would like to ask the rapporteurs to take their seats in the front row. Then you can be a group chairman or political rapporteur for one day. I think we're getting ready. I would like to point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 15 March, 2022. I give the floor to the rapporteur on behalf of the authors of the question, Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party, for the explanatory statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303132134	Thank you very much for that and thank you very much to all the rapporteurs and the Minister for coming here today. I think it is kind of weird to have to go into the Parliamentary Chamber and talk about something other than Ukraine, when that is what fills everything in our heads right now, but nevertheless I have been looking forward very much to this debate. It is also an extremely important issue, namely our diets and the importance they have for our climate, so I am very pleased that people have shown up. The Socialist People's Party has called for this debate following on from the Climate Council report, which very clearly says that the Danes eat far too much animal. Danes' food is very important for our overall climate load, and although many people really want to eat more climate-friendly, they find it difficult to do so. In this context, the Climate Council also says that public kitchens play a key role. They point out that the climate strain on agricultural production could be about halved if everyone ate a sustainable diet with more green and less meat. In addition, according to the Climate Council, we will be able to release large agricultural land for other purposes, not least nature, if we change our diet towards the new dietary councils, which I am quite sure the Minister of Food will also talk a lot about today. My hope with the debate here is that after a long talk we will see more parties taking a much more progressive position on this agenda, because there is no point in choosing green in public. It must be easy to do the good, it must be easy to be climate-friendly, and we politicians have a huge responsibility to ensure that. And I believe that we will miss a huge potential voluntary transition if we do not make it easy for people to make the choices they really want to make. That is why I am very much looking forward to this debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303132343	You're welcome. Then it is the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries who has the opportunity to reply. Following the Minister's reply, a brief remark is available from each rapporteur who wishes to take advantage of it. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303132356	Thank you, President. First of all, many thanks to Mr. Carl Valentin and Mrs Signe Munk to ask this very relevant question about the relationship between climate and diet. This is something that is really important. The climate-friendly food agenda is an agenda that is so moving. It is something that fills very much with the Danes, and fortunately for it. It's only been a year since the government launched new climate-friendly dietary councils. Since then, many initiatives have been launched. Shortly before Christmas, the Climate Council launched its report "Climate-friendly food and consumer behaviour," a few weeks ago the song went "What the fuck is a bellows fruit" virally, and it sizzles and bubbles out there in the Danish homes, in the supermarkets, in the canteens, in the think tanks. Food has always been very important in terms of good life and health. You are what you eat, they have said, and the new thing is that you can say: Your climate is what you eat. The climate debate has raised food to big politics. It is also a bottom-up task. Food accounts for far too much of the total emissions of greenhouse gases. We have to act. The rapporteur for the questioners also mentioned his explanatory statement that it takes up a great deal. Actually, there's something we can do here. Fortunately, there is a huge potential to act. The Climate Council report shows that an average Dane can reduce its climate footprint between 31 per cent. 45% and 45%. alone by following the dietary advice. In addition, there is the whole health aspect to it. Indeed, there is also a significant benefit to public health from eating after dietary advice. What you have to eat to think about the climate is actually the same thing you have to eat in terms of thinking about health. So we can have a few more good years of life, and fewer will have chronic diseases such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease if you eat after diet advice. We can also understand from an organisation such as the fight against cancer that there are certain types of cancer that can be prevented if you eat after dietary advice. So it is climate, it is public health and it is prevention at the same time. In fact, we can collect as much as 12 billion from society. kr. Every year, just in health benefits, if we eat after dietary advice. We have to meet those potentials, but how? In its report, the Climate Council stresses that public kitchens play a key role if we are to change the Danes' diet. I totally agree. A total of 650,000 meals are served every day in public canteens, schools, and kindergarten. Imagine if even more climate-friendly meals were prepared, we would really be able to move some plate for the plate. And then there's the long-term effect. If you get climate-friendly food every day in the canteen or school, you will be more inclined to cook climate-friendly food at home simply because you are inspired by the good food you get in the canteen. Therefore, the government has set in motion a number of initiatives that flee with the Climate Council's recommendations. Firstly, money has been set aside for pools to promote the use of the new dietary councils in professional kitchens. The government and the parties behind the 2021 Finance Act have allocated 40 million. kr. to a so-called kitchen conversion pool. And together with the Left, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, the government has the agreement on compensation, etc. to mink growers and follow-up industries set aside 7 million. kr. Annually in 2021 and 2022 for the conversion of professional kitchens. Secondly, the Danish Food and Agriculture Authority has recently launched a "Coswire for meals" to inspire professional kitchens to serve even more healthy and climate-friendly food. Thirdly, the Ministry of Food is working on a proposal to lay down mandatory minimum criteria for the sustainable purchase of food in the state, regions and municipalities. Climately speaking, it is not just the food we put in our mouths that is interesting. It's the food that never reaches the mouth, too. Over 800,000 tonnes of food we throw out. Imagine a huge mountain of meat, vegetables, dairy products, etc., as it has claimed 1.8 million. We need to do something about that. But it is actually talking about that it corresponds to as much as two months of dinner that the average Dane throws out every year. But fortunately, we can do something about this food waste if it's what we want. That is why the government has set in motion a number of measures. This is happening, among other things. under the auspices of the Think Tank ONE\THIRD and through Denmark against Madslastd, which is a voluntary agreement for food companies. In addition to all the initiatives in relation to dietary councils, public kitchens and food waste, the government will launch a project on climate-friendly choices in everyday life later this year. Here, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries will examine the Climate Council's recommendations in the area of food. Will it be easy to change our eating habits? Hardly! The other day, psychologist Sven Brinkmann wrote an update on Facebook, and there was a significant glimpse in the eye: You probably think it's a lie, but if you choose carrots over Friday sweets, water instead of coffee, and use whole grain paste for your bolognese, it is actually possible to reduce your joy of life by as much as 93%. Have a good weekend! ▪ I thought it was humorous and ridiculous, compared to sometimes getting a little tired of too much admonition. So, thank you, sir. Sven Brinkmann for the clever remark. And there is another example: In the week when the Climate Council published its report, I read a thought-provoking cover article in Weekendavisen written by journalist Pernille Stensgaard. She wrote: "If only we were someone else, Earth could be saved. New report from the Climate Council asks for miracles. The point of these two quotes is that ingrained habits, which are the result of a lifetime, are super hard to change. The point is also that many of us associate food experiences with quality of life with the good life, and we have everything but the desire to cut down on our quality of life and the good life. We think it's a shame when we do that. It's important. If the message of climate-friendly food becomes too preaching, people are alienated, so we must stay away from it. We need to inspire instead. We must speak up to the Danes instead of talking down to the Danes. We must also make it clear that if the climate-friendly food remains a talk that the higher middle class takes with them, nothing will happen. It is only when the new climate-friendly food habits become all-powerful that the big change comes. Moving people's diets is going to be super difficult, but that's not impossible. We can do something; we have to do something. Earlier this year, some journalist students made a video for the Danish Food Authority's Dietary Council campaign with the ear hanging song • What the fuck is a legume • with four-servibes and neon colors. I think it's funny. I think it's original and effective, and I love it. The video is a good example of how we cannot settle for the toolbox that politicians and officials have been using for years if we want to change anything. Instead of talking only about laws and regulations and prohibitions, we need to think new and different. We need to inspire. This requires, among other things, that: It is also about making alliances with organizations, think tanks, celebrities, kitchen staff and many more at the extremes. I would just like to mention that the other day I was on the day of legumes, and it was not among the elite in society or at a university. No, it was in the FOA trade union where Federal President Mona Striib sat in a good mood and ate legumes and struck a blow that you would like to be an inspiration to eat differently in nursing homes and other places. There could easily have been crossed arms and resistance. There was a desire for change here. I thought that was inspiring. Finally, I would like to highlight the agricultural agreement. It is an offensive and strong response to the climate challenge facing the whole world. Through the Agriculture Agreement, we are creating a whole new break of climate-friendly foods to make up for the notion that many people are connecting climate-friendly diets with opt-outs and weakened quality of life. For example: We are setting up a new fund for plant-based food, and we are allocating 580 million. kr. to support the production of plant-based food. In other words, we roll out the palette with brand new delicious tastes and climate-friendly foods. That is why I am also optimistic, and I would just like to remind you that when you take a look at the restaurant world, the fast food world, you see that there are more and more super-hot good experiences where it is that you can eat plant-based. Also when it comes to going fast, where you need a burger or something else, there are really good tastes out there. If we can make up the total playing board, will we succeed in moving our diets in a more climate-friendly direction? It is going to be very difficult, no doubt, and it requires a sustained effort from all of us, but I am an optimist. I think there is cause for optimism and my optimism is based on the speed that is above this agenda. It goes like a wildfire. Everyone who's been sitting at a kitchen table in an ordinary family in Denmark knows you're talking about this. There's a curiosity for this, and you want to move on it. Everyone who visits a restaurant in Denmark will find that there is an increasing supply in this field. You want this agenda. There's a revolution going on. It's moving in the right direction. A lot of people are backing up. Now I look forward to a really inspiring and life-giving debate with you, who are Parliament's rapporteurs in this field, and I am sure that together we can have a very good discussion on how we help to change this dietary picture so that we can draw in a more climate-friendly but also a more healthy and more preventive direction. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303133543	You're welcome. Then it is that the rapporteurs have a chance to ask a single question to a well thought-out minister, and whoever starts is Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303133554	Thank you. Freedom to choose is absolutely central to me and to us as Leftmen. We should not have a Big Brother society that says that you have to choose it or you have to choose it, or that you have to have so much of a particular category within a week or whatever it may be. That is absolutely crucial. And then I think it is a good thing that, from a central point of view, we are good at providing good information about things, and that is why, of course, we are also involved in the dissemination of these various pools, which the Minister also mentioned. What I would like to ask you is, when the Minister says, in his long speech, quite excellently, that we should be able to improve the possibilities for citizens to choose freely, for the institutions to choose freely and for municipalities to choose freely and for us not to have a Big Brother society. So it is really whether the Minister can confirm that what lies behind the words when the Minister says that we have to do something is to ensure the best possible information and information, and then it is entirely left to the consumers, the municipalities, the regions and the institutions themselves to choose and put together their diet plans and ultimately decide for themselves what to do on the plate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303133718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303133719	My clear message today is 'no' to coercion and 'yes' to free elections, and I can reassure you. Erling Bonnesen and the Danish Liberal Party say that it will not be me as Minister for Food or any authority that will haunt Mr. Erling Bonnesen in the private room to see if there is eggplant or roast in the oven. It's completely free what you choose. But there must be an opportunity to know what is good for the climate and what is good for health, so that you can make informed choices, and that is what we are working on here. And then there must also be an opportunity, if you want to choose, for you to then go to plant-based choices, and it is difficult to do so in too many places, and therefore we would like to inspire to provide better opportunities to choose the healthy and climate-friendly ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303133757	Sir. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303133801	Thank you. May I just start by thanking the Minister for Food. I feel that the Minister for Food is very passionate about this issue, and I think it is quite great that we have a Minister for Food who is progressive in relation to this agenda in that he is actually speaking it up and wants to go the right way. I think this is extremely important, because it is not many years ago that debates on meat went completely into cake every time, because people thought it was identity policy and irrelevant. The Minister of Food understands that it is not, and I really appreciate it. The Minister for Food is also talking about the fact that it is difficult to change habits, and I very much agree with that. That is why I also agree with the Minister for Food that we should not just hit people on top of our heads and say that you need to change your diet. We, as politicians, must make it easy. And one way to make it easy is to ensure that the food in the public kitchens is generally much greener. Could the Minister not see that we set targets in relation to how much to reduce emissions from food in public kitchens by 2025 and 2030? It could be a way to a much more climate-friendly diet in public kitchens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303133910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303133911	Thank you very much, sir. Carl Valentin for the nice words about this commitment. I am in many ways, I must admit, a traditionalist. I really like getting a big red steak on Fridays, and I also like getting a stadium plate when I'm at football. I think it's nice, I think it's nice, and I think it's safe. But I can just see that there's such huge potential in this that I think it's just too bad and too stupid not to move in this direction. When it is that you can get such big gains in relation to climate and public health, we simply cannot help it here. That is why I myself have gone over this and decided specifically that the meals I eat as a lunch in the Ministry of Food are, as a starting point, plant-based. I try to live plant-based as far as possible, and then I can look forward to those days when I can ferment myself over pork roast and stadium plates and steaks and other things. So I think you can move something if you do it the right way. But I would be a little worried about specific targets. I'd like to look at it and discuss it, but I think we need to start out carefully, because there's a cultural struggle we need to get where we're gonna get the Danes on this team, and when you see what's going on with this, you start moving. When you can see that you can avoid serious diseases or at least prevent serious diseases and get better years of life, while doing something for the climate, I think that people are starting to move on this agenda without being kidney religious in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303134041	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303134042	Thank you so much. There will be no praise from here, as there was from the Socialist People's Party. I am just a little too sorry that the government and the Minister have so little faith in the Danes that they think they should be taught how to eat. We in New Citizens thus have very great faith that they can find out for themselves the Danes are a very enlightened people. But I would really like to hear the Minister so specifically how many millions of dollars have been spent on this glutton. Because it was just over 4 million. kr. The Minister mentioned something of 40 million. kr., and there was something with 7 million. kr. in connection with mink and a conversion of some kitchens. So I would just like to have this overall overview of how many millions of the left wing have spent walking in this direction and in this way indoctrinating the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303134138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303134139	I am very sorry that it has been perceived that we do not have faith in the Danes, because we do. But what we also have faith in is that information and information bear something, and in the same way as it may be appropriate in traffic, that there are signs where it says how fast you must drive, in the same way it is a very good idea that you also inform about what is healthy to eat and what is climate-friendly to eat, because then you have an opportunity to make your free choice. Then it may be that sometimes you choose to do something else because you want to do it, and you have to be allowed to do it. I could never dream of deciding what the Danes should eat. But we would like to know what the consequences are. We in Denmark have a long tradition of enlightening about this. Then we have also launched initiatives to create opportunities in public kitchens, and a few million kroner have been set aside for that. I suggest that we make a written answer where we simply outline what has been used in this area. However, I would just like to say that it is small change and small change in relation to the giant costs involved, for example. fight against cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and what is also of climate stress. After all, it is billions of dollars that go into the account where we spend a few million dollars to make a small effort in terms of providing information, information and the opportunity to learn how to cook in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303134258	Mrs Susanne Zimmer of the Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303134300	Thank you to the Minister for the passionate speech. I have a question: is the state still giving money for meat advertising? Now I hear that the minister has been impressed with these advertisements for plant-based diets. Would it be worthwhile to stop meat advertising in general? Because just as the minister is affected, we are all affected by advertising. The last thing is about climate labelling, so people can see when they buy something, how much climate impact it actually has. Could the Minister be interested in working to establish such a mark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303134341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303134344	Many thanks also to Mrs Susanne Zimmer for the support and praise for her commitment here. This is an important agenda. It is the case that we are still using state funds to advertise meat. It has also been criticised. There are a number of our support parties, red parties, who have said: do not spend money on it; this climate agenda cannot be right to do so. We have had a long tradition of this, also because we have large incomes from very large exports of, among other things. pork. We have been proud when you visit our friends in Britain that they talk about Danish bacon. It is a product which has a high quality and which we have been happy to sell. What we have been afraid of from the government and from the Social Democrats is that, if you just change this over the night, you pull the curtain away under people's finances... people who have a big debt in a pig farm. There are slaughterhouse workers standing out there fearing that their slaughterhouse will be closed down and how can they afford the next rent, how can they afford their daughter's confirmation, etc.? So it is not just a matter of pressing the outlet and turning off all the lights in Danish animal production. There must be a transformation where we do it at a reasonable pace. We would like to discuss how we use advertising money offensively. I think we need to be much better on the new agendas, which are about the plant-based, and then we can walk away from some of the traditional. But we can't just snap our fingers and change it overnight. And then in relation to the climate label: we are working on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303134512	Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten, the red-green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303134516	The Minister is quite right in saying that it is small change that we have committed to the Finance Act for kitchen change and more ecology and such, compared with the 40-50 billion. kr., which society could save, if it were the case that the Danes just followed the Climate Diet Councils, which are not so far-reaching. In view of this, I would like to hear from you when the government has begun to address itself as if it were going to be green, and I have seen two government Finance Bill proposals where, on the parliamentary basis, we have fought to make the Finance Act green, and it has succeeded to a certain extent if the government is preparing a green financial bill which, like this, can put it in perspective, given that there is so much money for society to save on health expenditure, if we are going to have a better diet. Now that the Minister himself talks about it as small change, can we look forward to the government coming up with a green financial bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303134618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303134620	When we look at the time we are living in now, one of the most important agendas is that there is unrest and, unfortunately, war, even on European soil, the green agenda, the climate agenda. I know there has been criticism and that one could have been even more ambitious, but I would say in all modesty that when I travel around Europe and the rest of the world and talk to colleagues from elsewhere, people are deeply impressed by how green this government in Denmark is. We are one of the most green governments in the world, and the finance laws we have made so far have been green. Can you be even more green? Yeah. That is why it is obvious that when we come up with a proposal for a budget law, it will of course also be ambitious on the green side, also because we have such strong and good cooperation with our very green support parties, and that is why we will, of course, set up for continued good cooperation with them. For posterity will measure our generation by what we have done for the climate, what we have done for the environment, what we have done for biodiversity, what we have done for the green transition. That's where we want to be better. We would like to continue the good work, but we would like to be better with those who are on that agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303134738	Thank you, Minister. There's no one else who wanted to make short remarks in this round. The minister will come back later in the program. We shall now proceed to the debate and to the general rules for short remarks, and the rapporteur for the questioners will have the floor first, and that is Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303134758	Thank you. If you look at the way in which humanity has adapted itself on a global scale in structural terms and at the problems that arise as a result, then I think that the way in which we have arranged our food production is one of the absolutely greatest problems we face. How can I seriously mean that? How can I seriously believe that bacon and cocktail sausages and meat sauce should be a problem for us as humanity? Yes, I can, because there are so many violent consequences of our animal food that we do not dream of it at all. And once you've delved into those consequences, it's very hard to ignore again. Animal farming only absorbs giants in Denmark consists of half of our total Danish area of animal feed production, and 38%. of the global land area, goes to agriculture. Feed production is one of the leading causes of rainforest precipitation. Our meat consumption is one of the driving causes of climate change, which is also a threat to peace and stability in the world, because large areas become uninhabitable. Animal production has huge consequences for our environment, it accelerates the biodiversity crisis and it increases the risk of future epidemics. And then I have not yet mentioned the ethical problems that are also associated with placing billions of animals in very little place in large concrete halls in what we in Denmark call conventional agriculture, but which are elsewhere in the world called for factory farming. But let it go, because it is the climate that needs to be in focus today. And I do not think I can say much clearer than this: we need to change our food habits if we want to save the climate, not only in Denmark, but also globally. As long as we extend current developments in relation to population growth, economics and diets, according to the World Resources Institute, as the Minister often quotes, by 2050, we will need an additional agricultural area of twice India to feed the world population. If we do not find a way to change developments in relation to our meat consumption, we end up cutting down the rainforest and burning off the planet. And as one of the countries with the highest consumption of meat in the world per year. We have a special responsibility to act on it. According to the UN Panel on Climate Change, the food system stands at about 30%. of global emissions, and here in Denmark agriculture is responsible for almost 40%. of the total Danish greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, agricultural production is the cause of major challenges in relation to our aquatic environment and the decline in wildlife stocks, and in this respect there is no doubt that animal production has a very special role and is the main cause of the problem. The Climate Council points out that the climate impact on agricultural production could be about halved if everyone ate a sustainable diet with more green and less meat, and according to Aarhus University it requires 40%. less area to feed a person who lives by the new dietary advice than a person who eats an average Danish diet. That is why action is needed now, and one of the things we could do was to change the food in the public kitchens. In SF, we propose that we should have a target of reducing emissions from the diet in public kitchens by 25%. in 2025 and 50 per cent. in 2030. We want even more training for kitchen staff, which we have already started with with the government. We will have offers of plant-based food in all public kitchens, we will have taxes on the most climate-laden foods, and then we will stop state-funded meat advertising. So there is enough to tackle, and now I will read out a proposal for adoption, which I am very pleased about, and it is on behalf of the Socialist People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the Christian Democrats. And it sounds like this: Proposals for adoption The Folketing sees the climate crisis as one of the most important and urgent tasks of the time. There is global recognition in research circles that the world's food systems have a significant impact on climate, environment and health, and the potential is great if the Danes' food habits can change in a more climate-friendly direction. The government is in the process and has taken good action such as new official dietary councils, interventions in the public kitchens and significant initiatives in the food waste area. The Folketing instructs the government to examine the possibility of a 100 per cent election in public kitchens by the end of 2022. plant-based meal. V 48) Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303135348	You're welcome. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303135351	Thank you. Well, I'm quite ready that if mr. Carl Valentin could be allowed to decide, so meat production should be largely phased out the sooner, the better. So the short question is actually: if Mr. Carl Valentin could decide how many days a week there could then be meat at all on the menu, for example. In nursing homes, would it be 0 days, 1 day or 2 days, or should there be free choice? I think there should be free choice, so that you decide for yourself, because you can easily figure out how to put together a good, varied diet. But if Mr. Carl Valentin could decide, would it be as low as 0 days now, right away, or would it be 1 day or 2 days a week?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303135436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303135437	Well, it's very funny, because SF has never done a big campaign to prevent meat from being served in nursing homes, or that, for example. must be a lot of meat-free days. I think it would be a good thing if we generally served much less meat in the public kitchens, too, but the kind of rigid approach that Mr. Erling Bonnesen comes here, is not really the one we have shown. Erling Bonnesen wants it, for it is freedom. And there is no freedom to choose in public cuisine today, because very many people do not have the opportunity to eat plant-based diets, even if they want to. And there are plenty of stories about people in nursing homes, in day care centres and in public places who want to eat greener, but cannot get to it because they cannot. And it's a huge voluntary conversion we're missing out on. And therefore the policy that SF is fighting for in this area will ensure more freedom to eat as you like, and not less.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303135539	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303135540	Well then, if we look at it from the other end of the story, then I think we should take the step fully and that is our position in the Left and say: both as a citizen and as an institution you can easily find out for yourself; the nursing homes can find out for themselves; the kindergartens can find out for themselves. So, shouldn't we stop with "Can we, then, use the Danish Parliament's time to dictate how much or how little meat will ultimately be? Ladies and gentlemen, we are in fact very much in agreement with what the rapporteur of the Left says. There is complete freedom for you to put together your diet, just as you will. Of course, we expect the content to be good, healthy and varied, based on the fact that we have good consumer information and good guidance to stick to. So if sir... Carl Valentin means something by using the word freedom from the platform now, so you should follow this point of view and say: Well, we don't interfere with that by the Folketing; you will find out very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303135635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303135636	I think it's the problem with sir. Erling Bonnesen's objection is that he has a very narrow understanding of freedom. For freedom is also for me to live in a world that has no increased risk of future epidemics. It is also living in a world where there is no climate disaster, so large areas become uninhabitable. I must promise that it is unfree when you are forced to leave the place where you live because of climate change. And that is also what the Climate Council says in their report.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303135719	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303135720	Thank you so much. I don't know if there's any school kids watching this debate. I don't think they do. Maybe somebody's listening up there, that's so good. I would just like the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party to elaborate on this. Does the rapporteur really think that if I go down and replace my roll sausage with broccoli, I will save the whole world and nothing will happen at all? For that is the kind of thing that comes out of the rapporteur's mouth, that is, climate disaster and climate crisis. And then I would actually like to get some figures on what it would be like if you replaced it with broccoli, i.e. what consequence it would then have in the large overall picture in terms of climate, i.e. if we Danes did it in relation to the climate in general. For Denmark expels extremely little CO2 so could the rapporteur not respond a little and then confirm to me that the young people should not go and be worried?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303135821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303135821-2	If the young people read the latest report from the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, the IPCC, which unfortunately came just on top of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, then unfortunately they would find many very worrying figures showing that the climate crisis is accelerating and will have huge consequences for all of us. It is clear that if Mrs Mette Thiesen decides to eat a little broccoli instead of a roll sausage, it will not change the world, but Mrs Mette Thiesen will be part of a global movement that will eventually change the world. Because we all have to realise that with the disaster we are in the middle of, we must also be willing to change our habits. This does not mean that we all need to become vegetarians or vegans tomorrow, but that means that we have to face the challenges we face, fundamentally seriously and change our diet towards being much more plant-based. And fortunately, I can tell Mrs Mette Thiesen, the studies show that the young people are the leaders in this fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303135925	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303135926	I don't know if I was confirmed in that. So, I do not buy that rhetoric of fear, I simply do not, and I would also urge that it be turned down by the left, because it is simply going to hurt young people who believe that the world is about to end. But if we put that away, I would actually like to hear something from the rapporteur here at the end, because the rapporteur did not really give any figures on this. I would then like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur could not just support it, because we could, of course, do that, reducing taxes and taxes in general, so that being a Dane becomes easier and cheaper. And then it could be that there were some who could also afford to buy more vegetables, for example. So will the Socialist People's Party help to reduce tax levels in general in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303140012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303140013	In relation to the figures, I can say that, according to Aarhus University, it requires 40%. less area to feed a person who lives by the new dietary advice, compared to the average Danish diet. So you can actually deliver quite a lot by doing something yourself. No to the second question. The Socialist People's Party does not believe that we should generally reduce taxes, but we will have no problem looking at how we can make plant-based diets more accessible. And we could, for example. stop putting public funds into meat advertising and we could make vegetables cheaper and meat more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303140046	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303140049	Thank you. I was wondering if I would also have two questions. Now we have an unconventional day today, when the Rules of Procedure have not always been observed, so I would like to ask the listeners something: how many of them are vegetarians? There's talk of the young, but are there any vegetarians in the gallery, will you raise your hand? There's no one at all. It's sad you're atypical. What I think is that there are a great many young people who are trying to change their diet, and they are doing so for various reasons. Some do it because of animal ethics, others do it because of the climate, and then we in the Danish Parliament experience that we sometimes have some somewhat outdated debates, I think, and there I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr. Carl Valentin and SF for the good cooperation we have had up to financial law processes and up to the agricultural agreement we got the country, where I cannot really understand so many parties came along, but I actually thought the content was very good. So thank you for that and thank you for keeping the debate going.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303140149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303140151	Well, thank you. I also think that we have had excellent cooperation on this, and I am also very pleased with the joint adoption text that we have ended up with, including with the Enhedslisten. It means a lot to me that we are now looking into the possibility of making an offer of plant-based food in public kitchens. Then I would also like to say that some of what inspires me most is, in fact, when you come out and talk to the many young people who have either become vegetarians or vegans or maybe just cut down, because not only do they help make a big difference like themselves, they also help affect their families very much. When I was a child, I remember it was I who was supposed to know from my parents that I had to eat some more vegetables, but now it is the young people who go to their parents and say: We have to eat some more vegetables at home because of the climate crisis. I really think that's strong.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303140236	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303140238	Now we can have many traditions in this Parliament when something is in a rigid way. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he has any new ideas on how to involve us, what is moving within the population in changing diets. Sometimes stories come up: Then there is a star chef who changes his fine restaurant, then there are young people who demand something at their school etc. Does the rapporteur see that perhaps we could do something together to put a greater focus on this, that diet and climate are something that is really important beyond this question debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303140313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303140314	This debate is a good first step. I do not think I have the perfect solution at my fingertips when the question comes here, but it is certainly a good idea to talk to many of the green NGOs who are working very hard on this. I know that Danish Vegetarian Association, for example. has done a huge job, also in relation to contacting vegetarians in nursing homes, parents with children in day care etc. to discover how many people actually experience that they cannot eat according to their own values in the public sector. So let's talk to them more like this and try to involve people. It's always a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303140349	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no more brief comments. And welcome to Mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303140403	Thank you very much, and thank you very much to the SF for taking the initiative, I think, this very important question debate on how we can both get more climate-friendly happy, but also how we can get consumer behaviour further into play. I think I will allow myself to make an admission here today. Because we have discussed this in the past, among other things. when the Free Greens raised the issue, and my approach has always been that this whole area of diet is something that is so close to the citizen, something that is so close to us, and that in reality it is something where we need many actors to help in the process of change. That is why I also had the expectation that the whole climate and all the initiatives on green diets at institutions would be day care institutions, be it schools, be it town hall canteens, and be it in maternity wards, in emergency rooms, that is, in the whole health sector, and at our elderly centres would have really played a very important role in the debate we saw up to the municipal and regional elections back in November. I tried to keep up with myself, but I also had to admit that it didn't actually fill nearly as much as I had prophesied and had believed. I thought it was going to fill up a lot, because I have seen several very good examples of really concentrated efforts being made on the ground. I have previously highlighted one of the visits I have made myself, namely at Godhavn, which everyone knows from history. They have today really invested in the use of diet in their pedagogy, because they have the approach that, if we are to save the world, we also have to teach young people to eat healthy and to eat climateily, and that we need young people to be healthy, it is important what they put in their mouths. But then there is also a completely different dimension that I think is important when we talk diet, and that is that if you are to have a family and you have to have a family life to work, it is incredibly important that the traditions around a meal are maintained, that you sit and talk about the food and you talk about today's events, and here the diet just plays in very well. I have also visited Bispebjerg Hospital, where I have seen examples of how you have cooked all the way from scratch, and how you have herbs in the greenhouses that fit the seasons, and how you also in the individual rooms actually take the initiative that it is not only with your mouth you eat, but also with your eyes, and that means that you actually work in relation to the whole preparation of your diet so that it looks delicious and you want to eat. And that is how I can continue to give examples. Where I have come to the conclusion myself, I think you should have a helping hand from in here in relation to some increased incentives for how we will really create the options that can be out there. In fact, I think that the adoption text we have produced is as if it were the case that liberal parties should have supported it, because it is basically about a woman bringing her first child into a maternity ward and she is a vegetarian, so of course she should have the opportunity to say yes to a vegetarian meal. I think that is actually quite interesting, and I think that is what we are discussing. That is what is at the very heart of our adoption text; it is actually giving the citizens some opportunities. Could you imagine that woman lying in there in the hospital for several days and actually being able to choose only between meat, meat and meat? It's basically not a matter of meeting that woman's needs. So I really think that is what is essential in the text of the adoption that we are proposing, namely that we actually examine whether we can strengthen the free choice of citizens. So, it must be, if you may say so, music in the ears of a party such as the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, etc., that we are actually creating free elections for citizens, because why should it be the individual institution that has to decide whether a vegan or a vegetarian can get the meal that they actually want? I think we should see if we can have a free choice. Of course, it may turn out that it is very expensive, that it is costly or something like that, but now we have it examined at least, and I would like to sign SF to take the initiative on that. In fact, I think that is very sensible, and I also think that we should remember in this whole context that we have a broad agricultural agreement with each other, where we have set aside over 500 million. kr. to develop the plant-based, so we already have the tactstick from in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303140920	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303140927	Thank you, and thank you for a good speech, sir. Anders Kronborg. I think it is extremely important that we work together to examine the possibility of a 100 per cent. plant-based meal in public kitchens, and I am pleased that it has become an agenda that is so offensive to talk about freedom. Because I think that's exactly what this is about. It means a lot to me. When it comes to introducing it, the only thing the rapporteur is so concerned about is a bit of the economy in relation to it. But when we heard the Minister speak before, we could also hear how huge economic benefits there will be by eating greener, as Danes, because of the many lifestyle diseases it can prevent. It can give us a better and longer life. Does the rapporteur not really believe that if this is introduced, it will benefit the Danish economy as a whole, because we will simply see that people live a healthier life if they can choose the plant-based in everyday life?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141026	I firmly believe that the SF rapporteur has a point in which I would like to acknowledge it. I do not think we can afford to ignore the climate crisis that we are facing in any way, and I believe that one of the concepts that we really need to work on is the whole aspect of activism, in that we ourselves can make an effort to bring about the green transition. On the other hand, I think it is very important that we do not point the finger, that we do not get skinny in the debate, if I may say so, and I do not hear Mr. Carl Valentin be. I mean, I don't feel guilty. Now I'm 40 years old here in a couple of weeks, and on that occasion I've hired a sausage cart to come and grill the big hot dogs, and I also think you can have some plant sausages, if that's what you want, but then Mrs. Mette Thiesen can come safely and get a good hot dog. On the other hand, I would like to say that we need to be curious about the green transition, and that is really what I think is so important in this. I have great respect for them and I do not want to point the finger at those who choose to live without meat, vegetarian or vegan, and I also think we should strive for some opportunities for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141139	The questioner. Thank you. I hope so...). The asker! Well, I can't get through. That's it, that's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. When I yell out loud, it's because we'll be notified down to the technician. If I speak too low, he may not hear it).
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141153	It's okay. Well, I didn't have much to say. I am pleased with the recognition of the point about the economy, and then I think it is absolutely right what the rapporteur says, namely that it is important that we get inspired and try some new things. I hope that there will be a plant sausage in the sausage cart, because I actually think that there is a value in sticking to some of the Danish traditions and making sure to develop them. Because there are a lot of people who like a hot dog, and I've always liked that. I'm still eating away hot dogs, now I'm just doing it in the shape of plant sausages. In this way, of course, we can make a transition which is also popular, and I think that is extremely important.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141232	I very much agree, and that is where, I think, the entire processing agenda comes in, even when we talk about food waste and about how we can help make something more of the Danish products. I also think that the whole part of tourism is exciting when we look at the diversity in Denmark within the entire Danish pantry. Now I have my own summer house on Fanoe and can see the diversity you like. have of different regional specialities just on the small island by the Wadden Sea, and we can also go elsewhere, for example. to Bornholm. I certainly think that is something that needs to be developed, and that is something that I personally am curious about in relation to the whole pantry, if I may say so. In fact, I think that we should start to be much more offensive in relation to the whole education. So, go to a Danish school and go into a room where you have home knowledge, and then follow an hour of home knowledge. Well, in some places the economy is very limited, and if the young people are to learn about finer French cooking by working with Jaka Bov, we are not really going to get any further. There, I believe, we need to focus on action in the future if we are to bring the young generation with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141342	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141345	Thank you. Well, I think it's fine that things are being examined. We can only all have an interest in that so you have a clear basis on which to make decisions. Now I noticed that the rapporteur, in his many excellent speeches, mentioned the hospitals and hospitals, and so it was expressed a little with patos, as if there was too much meat on the plate there was at least emphasis on the sentences. So it's just that I'm thinking about this now, fortunately, I haven't been in the hospital lately, so I can't say that I've been standing and seeing it that it's my impression that in the hospital kitchens around here, you're actually very good at getting varied diets put together. I think it is very rare for people to hear that way round about complaints that there should be something wrong with the diet. So I have a lot of confidence in the diet in the kitchens both in hospitals, but also in kindergarten and schools etc. In other words, the Social Democratic rapporteur is not confident that the various boards of directors and, in the case of the hospitals, the Regional Council are in fact in charge of the way they do things and have the authority to put it in place. Of course, in agreement with the interest groups there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141507	Thank you for your commendation. If sir... Erling Bonnesen had listened very well, I actually used after the introduction of my speech a number of very positive examples of quite concrete visits out there in reality. It is my impression that there is a curiosity out there; it is my impression that a lot of people are involved; it is also my impression that there are actually differences between parts of the country in relation to institutions. I had the great pleasure here a few years ago to visit a daycare centre at Frederiksberg, where there was a food scheme and where a professional with special knowledge of cooking with children had been employed. When I got out there, the children were helping to prepare the food; they were helping to set the table. The fire was lit and the soup was made over the fire with seasonal, if you may say, vegetables and specialties. It was really fantastic to experience, and these are some examples that I would like to use to sign up to the rapporteur and say that we must also use them to tell the good story about this and inspire others. That is why I do not think that I fully agree with the rapporteur that we can adopt something in here, and then the Holy Grail is safe tomorrow, because it is not. In other words, we must in dialogue with the municipalities, we must in dialogue with the regions, we must inspire the institutions, because if we are to make the green transition, we really must do so together. This brings us back to what was my starting point, namely in relation to local activism at the level of the individual. In fact, I think it is extremely important that we continue to hold on to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141643	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141644	Thank you. In the first part of the rapporteur's answer, the rapporteur made it very clear that there are great differences out there. As I understood it, there was such a bit in it that it was a problem. I do not think it is the opposite. I also noticed that in the last part of his reply, the rapporteur stressed that individual freedom was fine, and both of them cannot, as it were, be an expression of the position. So I would like to clarify whether this is the first part of the rapporteur's answer or whether it is the last part of the rapporteur's answer that is the real meaning of the rapporteur. Because I think, as a Leftman, that it is great that there are differences around, because it does exactly that you can place emphasis on the special wishes you have in the individual hospital or in the individual department, in the individual kindergarten, in the individual school, etc. So if that is what lies in the word freedom, then I think it is a good thing; but if that is the first thing that could be seen as a problem, then I do not think it is so good. So could the rapporteur clarify whether this is the first part or the last part of the answer to which we have to pay attention?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141750	I really think we can sit and brainstorm on this and learn more about each other. We can either do that over a good steak or a bowl of salad. I don't really care about that. What has been, and is, my starting point is that I think I hear the rapporteur of the Left as a system preserver, and I do not always think that is what characterises the Left. I am actually talking about giving each individual the freedom to choose the freedom to choose. And there I think, in fact, somewhere, that I am not interfering with what meal as such should be put on the plate; it is up to the individual institution. But I think that if a mother, who has been a vegetarian all her life, enters a maternity ward and is forced to eat meat to get something to eat, then we are in the mad ball street. And that is what is meant by our adoption text.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141836	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141837	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Does the rapporteur not think that advertising for meat and eating more meat have an effect? And is there not a paradox in the fact that we have government-funded meat advertising when, at the same time, as the rapporteur says, we want people to eat more climate-friendly?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141900	Oh, that's an issue that's been violently discussed. I think that we should take great care of the balance here. I think that there is currently an imbalance when you look at the percentage figures, in relation to how many percent are going to support meat in advertising and how many percent are going to support the plant-based. I acknowledge that to the rapporteur. But if there are some producers in Denmark who are actually going the right way, going ahead with processing etc., then I will not stand here and say that it must be completely verboten to have advertisements for Danish meat. The agricultural agreement we have made, where both SF, Enhedslisten, Left and New Citizens are involved, does not even have the effect of reducing animal production at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141953	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303141955	I often hear the Minister say something about slaughterhouse jobs. However, does the rapporteur not believe that a restructuring of agriculture to produce more plant-based diets can maintain some of the jobs that disappear elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303142010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303142012	In other words, I believe that we must take extremely good care of the jobs that we have throughout the whole of the food trade. So there is no doubt that I believe that there is a potential for growth within the whole plant-based, within the whole green, which can create new jobs. So there are clearly some challenges in relation to the Danish agricultural sector. One area I feel really, really bad about, right into the heart, is the transport of piglets that takes place for 20-21-22-23 hours down the hot European motorways of CO2 there I think we can become even sharper. That is also why my party, the Social Democratic Party, is working hard in the European Parliament for a maximum transport time of 8 hours. And there I am happy, happy, that in the negotiations where many parties bent on the table, Mrs Mette Thiesen and Mr. Erling Bonnesen's party and Dansk Folkeparti and others said: We would also like to help look at a maximum transport time in relation to the transport of piglets. I think this is important, both for animal welfare, but also for the image that Danish agriculture has in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303142117	Thank you, sir. Anders Kronborg. There are no more brief comments. That is why I would like to welcome Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303142131	Thank you. Freedom to choose for yourself what to do in the shopping cart and what to do on the plate is absolutely central to me as a Leftman and for us as Left People. Good consumer information from the authorities is important so that a varied diet can be put together. It is absolutely essential that we, as politicians, ensure competitive framework conditions for the professions so that they can produce good, healthy food from which consumers are free to choose. The municipalities, the regions and the institutions must also have free choice to choose for themselves what to do on the plate. Denmark is known for high food safety and good food quality. Danish agriculture and food production are world-class; we are in the absolute superliga when it comes to producing with minimal environmental and climate footprints. We are actually in a league for ourselves in Denmark, and we can be proud of that, while we can rejoice that it means a lot of good export crowns in the box and good jobs throughout the country. This is all part of ensuring growth, employment and funding for our welfare societies, by the way. Facts are and have been that we are good at developing. From the beginning of the first cooperatives and cooperatives and abattoirs to the present day, we have been constantly developing and processing our products and production methods, etc. We must continue to do so, and that is why we must also take on board the opportunities that an increasing demand for, for example. plant-based diet and food provide. It is a golden opportunity for Danish food producers. Many are already in the process, but there is also room for even more, as consumers show demand for it. It is obvious for Danish agriculture and Danish food producers to invest in plant-based products, but it certainly does not mean that the production of animal products, meat etc. should be reduced. We must, of course, continue to do what we are very good at, especially because we produce in an environmentally and climate-friendly way in Denmark and are with us in the shoes in those areas. There is demand for our products around the globe, and it is good for the Danish economy. For the Left, it is crucial that we have a strong and export-focused agricultural and food sector. We must produce everything and not flush out some of our great successes with the bathing water, so to speak. Nor do we think we can afford that when we look at the many wishes that, for example, are there. is to finance law and the coherence of the economy and much else. At the same time, it would also be bad for the environment and the climate, if we did so, from a wider perspective. Because whatever we decide here in the Assembly Hall, the demand for meat is great around the world, and in many places more people are also able to afford to eat more meat. So we can almost turn it around and say that the more Danish meat there is on the plates in the world, the better it is for climate and environment globally. However, more and more people at home choose to eat less meat, and that's a free choice every time you do it. I am quite sure that it will be possible to deal with it on its own, both as a citizen, as a consumer and as an institution, as I have mentioned. We do not need state dictations for how many vegetables there should be or how little meat there should be. The individual citizen, municipality, region and public institution can easily find out for themselves. We talk a lot about freeing the public sector and trusting local management, and we should also have that when it comes to preparing the weekly lunch plan for the canteen or school meals. There must be free choice for consumers, and if you choose Danish food, you can be absolutely sure that they are healthy, safe and environment- and climate-friendly. Then I should say hello to the Conservative People's Party, which was acutely concerned with other meetings and could not be in the Chamber. Then I will read out the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the Left, Conservative and Danish People's Party, and it says: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers the climate challenges to be very important. The way to concrete solutions is to a large extent research, further development, new solutions and new products. Information and consumer information are very important and consumers are increasingly actively involved in the choice of climate-friendly solutions. The government is required to guarantee citizens and institutions full freedom to choose diet solutions and what to do on the plate. • V 49). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303142633	You're welcome. The proposed proposal for adoption is part of the debate together with the other proposals. The first brief remark is made by Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303142647	New solutions and to ensure free choice. That sounds really good. What if you are at a workplace where there is a canteen that has today's hot meal and today's hot meal so is something that contains meat, then what is the free choice you have in that canteen? It's the choice between not eating or eating what's there. It has, of course, been a bit of a debate about the introduction of such a right to be allowed to choose something without meat, i.e. whether it should be something that is a right and to what extent it should be disseminated. And now we have another text for adoption, which means that it will then have to be examined whether we could come to the conclusion that we have here. The rapporteur does not see that, for those who do not eat meat, it is quite essential that we can get something to eat if, for example, we can get something to eat. Is at work?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303142747	But now the questioner does not specify exactly what kind of workplace it is. As I heard, the questioner says the workplace, and it could then, for example. I am just wondering whether it is in a public or private workplace, because in our well-informed, good democratic society, wherever you are, there is a good way to participate in the debate, even at the individual workplace, almost wherever it is; you have good opportunities to influence things. And that's what I really think it is. If it is a municipality, then you will have it debated there, and my own experience, at least from when I was in the municipality, is that you put it to the nursery boards and the various user councils, and then you discuss things. In fact, it is also my view that, in both municipalities and regions and in the workplace, it is precisely in order to take all the different interests into account as far as possible. If there is just one person who wants a particular right, it may be a problem I should not be able to say that but otherwise it is in relation to development, and I think we can all see that as soon as a wish arises that has such appropriate weight and fullness, it will also be taken into account in the organisation of the various diets.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303142906	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303142909	So we are where it is up to the local, and then you can have people who work in the state or in a municipality or region and who go to work every day and have to bring the luncheon with them until they have won an opportunity to eat the food you can buy in a canteen. Well, it's really, I think, something old-fashioned. I really think it is awesome if you are able to achieve more rights. Does the rapporteur not see that the fact that everyone can buy something prepared in a canteen is something that we should strive for if it is the case that you are at a work place that has a canteen?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303142950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303142951	In fact, I think it is a modern Denmark that, at the various institutions, again, without mentioning them all, you can influence what should be on the shelves and in the cafeteria. And I also experience that there is variation and a creative development here. In the left, we are in favour of everything. It is the consumers who decide what to do on the plate, and when there is a sufficient desire to get some of the last new plant-based products on the plate, then you take it to heart and you produce it too, and then it is offered. The farmer is also interested, together with the food business, in producing and developing it as soon as there is a demand for it. And that's what's going on. I am sure that we are also in this area one of the countries which is furthest advanced in the shoes, and I am delighted about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143040	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143041	Well, first of all, thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen to speak up Food Denmark. I think this is commendable, because we really have a lot of things to be proud of in Denmark. There is a potential for growth in the green area. We are ahead on long stretches when it comes to animal welfare. We have incredibly many thousands of jobs in the industry. It is important to speak up the possibilities, so thank you for that. When I say that, it is also because I am surprised that the Left is so statistical that they are already rejecting any kind of study of giving opportunities at this stage. This proposal for adoption, tabled by the SF and Enhedslisten, does not concentrate on private companies. It concentrates exclusively on public kitchens. What it says is that, by 2022, the possibility of a 100 per cent vote should be explored. plant-based meal. It doesn't tie anyone up. It'll look into it. It's just that I'm a little curious about why Erling Bonnesen isn't even curious about this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143153	Well, we're not narrow-track, we're not narrow-minded, we're not against having things examined. I have just replied to the rapporteur's question, because I think it is quite fine to have things examined. Then I have just indicated that our path is as broad as possible in terms of getting local self-determination into the organisation of it. And I have also just answered the previous question that we can now see it around. We debated it before, precisely that diversity is great. And there's got to be room for that big difference. Because our taste buds are different, and there may be regional specialities, and there may be local conditions that do. I just think that's good. So we're for everything, but it just has to be a local choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143238	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143239	Well, I can easily see that Erling Bonnesen's arguments could hold up in the ideal world. The challenge is that it is not always the ideal world. Erling Bonnesen said to the previous question that consumers decide. But consumers do not decide. I just have to say that if only sausage horns and ketchup are on the menu, then it is not the consumers who decide. Then consumers have no choice. This is, in my view, an opportunity for us to strengthen consumer choice so that they have choice and so that they have free choice. And there I just think it is a pity that a liberal party is actually already saying that we do not want to hear about that at all. We will not help at all to explore the possibilities for our citizens to have a free choice in relation to the public institutions. No, because according to Erling Bonnesen, institutional owners have to decide that, but not citizens through their free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143331	I am quite sure that you cannot even find an institution where they only have one particular thing on. Now the questioner himself mentions sausage horns. In Odense, I am quite sure that contact would then be made with either the mayor's office or the regional office, where they said that we could not then get a different leadership on there, because we need to have some more varied. I actually see it the other way around, namely that there's a lot of variation in it, and it's my experience that when the responsibility is exactly there and the possibilities are there, we can say that you're very creative and good at getting this put together well and varied. Of course, in the case of kindergartens, there are also parental boards and user boards, but there are also nursing homes etc. One can only note the number of complaints that are coming, i.e. how few complaints actually get over it. So we don't mind looking into a few more things. Just look into everything you want. In our view, it should be the case that it is a local choice and that it is the consumer who decides, depending on where we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143428	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143429	As you can see on the screens and in our papers, the reason why we have this debate is that the Climate Council has made a criticism of our food habits and has said that we must eat much less meat, and they have also made a number of concrete recommendations on how we can ensure that more sustainable food is eaten in Denmark. That's why I'd really just like to hear Mr. Erling Bonnesen: If Mr. Erling Bonnesen was now Minister for Food, which of the Climate Council's recommendations could he imagine implementing in Denmark in order to ensure that we get some more sustainable food habits?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143507	Well, I think it's fine that the Climate Council and other different organisations make their various suggestions for it. I also welcome the fact that citizens, consumers in a broad sense, are taking this into account. There may also be some generational differences in how much and how little plant-based food you choose, but there is, in fact, a good and positive development in relation to the plant-based. And I'm glad there is. It is only for the consumer to decide for himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143535	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143536	I don't think it was quite an answer to the question, but it's gonna be okay. At any rate, I can say that some of what would really battling would be if we were to make some targets in order to see how much emissions from the diet in the public kitchens would have to be reduced. Then there would be freedom of method out there, in relation to whether you should serve something less of a certain kind of meat or some other type of meat and something like that. That would certainly move a lot. Could Mr. Erling Bonnesen imagined that you made such target numbers, like you did, for example. has done in Copenhagen and Aarhus?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143610	There we may see the real difference between a SF's and a Leftman, where the SF's like to talk a little freedom, but when it comes down to it, you will actually well from the mountain, from the castle, just dictate what is going to happen out there. I use the word freedom, but as far as possible in the way that you should be allowed to decide for yourself. I am also pleased that there is a great deal of variation. I also welcome the fact that there is a positive development with an increase, including in the plant-based area, and it is based on the consumer's choice, and it is not because we here from Castle have decided that it should surely be the questioner who should be pleased that we are, in fact, some of the most advanced in the shoes in this area here in Denmark. We have also been out to a few events together along the way, and there one can be pleased that it is well underway. We'll give them back out there, 'cause they're just gonna have to go for it. And you are also ready to produce it out there as there is a demand for it. So we really don't have to spend any more time in here. It's just saying to them, "Go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143708	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143710	Thank you. I think the rapporteur recognises that green diets are more climate-friendly than a very meat-based diet. In the past, the rapporteur asked whether it was not too much an amount that was spent in promoting dietary advice so that they were used, but the amount spent on government funding advertising for meat is the greater. Isn't there a problem with that, even when you recognise that advertising actually has a meaning?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143744	Well I have also noticed that both Danish Crown and Arla and also several both large and small food companies have also taken the plant-based and have begun to develop on it. So I am absolutely sure that as soon as they are ready with the plant-based goods on the shelves, they will also start to prioritise their advertising crowns after that. So I'm quite calm about that. That's what the market and they're gonna find out for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143804	Thank you, sir. Erling Bonnesen. There are no more brief comments. I would like to welcome Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten, De Red-Greenne.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303143819	I would like to thank the Climate Council for making their recommendations. I've called it the Climate Council's Christmas gift to the government, and then I've been a little excited if the government would use the Christmas present. I would also like to thank the SF for having raised this question debate. It is a little different here in the Folketing when you sense that something is moving. But if I look back on whether we have achieved anything after we have changed government, then we have achieved something. Then, through the Agriculture Agreement and through financial agreements, we have achieved results that relate to our diet. I think what the Climate Council is bringing in is very thought-provoking. So we need to change our diet. We also have to turn down animal production in Denmark in order to move forward as well. That's the main headline in it. I think it is gratifying to see that we have an agreement to implement the plant fund. We are about to create a fund where agricultural and food sector actors can apply for support if it is the case that they want to develop plant-based products. I think it's gonna get a lot out of it. We in Denmark have a long tradition of growing peas. We haven't done that much lately. In the past, it has been an essential part of a farm-worker's diet, that is, in the diet of ordinary people. It can be done again. After all, we have ended up in such a strange place where we import all sorts of pulses from all over the world. But the pulses that we can grow in Denmark without difficulty are some that we are about to give priority to. We can then support that with this plant fund. I also find it interesting that we have elements of agricultural aid which, as such, can encourage us to produce more food than feed. I mean, we're an agricultural country where 80%. of the agricultural area goes to animal feed production. Global is 70%. Something's wrong. It is there, of course, that the potential for change and climate effect is, in other words, by transforming our production. We are going to have fewer livestock and we are going to have less meat on the table. We often discuss what we can do in relation to the public kitchens. I think they're incredibly important, because that's where you can be inspired because you get served some other food. And I really think you have to win on the good taste. And the fact that you get a good plant-based meal for some public food can make you want to go home and try to copy it. So it is also my impression that young people are now not so many in the public gallery right now... have some huge potential to influence society, for that is not only what they choose to eat; it is also the influence that happens when they eat at home and have a desire to eat less meat. It poses certain challenges. I have heard of many conflicts up to Christmas, because what do you have to eat because some people have changed their diets? When we look at the solutions, we look forward very much to introducing a CO2 so that it is not just small amounts on a budget law, then it is not only a few larger amounts in an agricultural agreement, but then it is something that goes in and affects production in individual farms, and that will have an effect. This will make there are some plant-based foods that want a smaller CO2 I look forward very much to the next Finance Act, because I am very much in favour of judging politicians, including the government, on their actions, and now we have heard that the Green for the Prime Minister has become important, and the Finance Bill from a government is one of the great things. I think it will be exciting to see it, because I have seen from the last two financial laws that it has certainly been greasy when it comes to what green elements have been in play. Then we've been pretty good at fighting something. It has made it possible to go out and proclaim that you had a green finance bill. But I really think we should do better next time. It could be that those small amounts, which the Minister has mentioned in the past we have earmarked for kitchen conversions, etc., could turn into some larger amounts. The perspective of this is that bad diet costs society 40-50 billion. kr. annual. If we can just come to the conclusion that it was the Climate Council's dietary advice, which is not a vegan diet, then society would save 40-50 billion. kr. Every year because we wanted to achieve better public health and have a longer life. I think that's worth going for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144326	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144329	Thank you. Fortunately, Danish democracy has now been arranged in such a way that it usually takes more parties to form a majority, but if Enhedslisten could dictate completely for a moment, should meat production be abolished in Denmark? Should investments in all types of animal production have been stopped, or where should we go?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144356	I think, in fact, that we will create the best long-term solutions if there are several parties involved, but I also see some major drawbacks in being ten parties in an agricultural agreement. Enhedslisten's policy is the first step in halving animal production in Denmark. It is the first step, and then you can move on. After all, we only have organic production in the agricultural sector as our policy, and that would lead to about the halving of animal production. So it's gotta be step by step, and those misinvestments in pig stalls and the like have to stop. After all, we need a phasing-out plan for livestock farming, and I really think that we should take advantage of these opportunities, so that we can see that there are so many farmers who are older and who are facing a change. It may be a shift to a state farm fund buying up very large land and dismantling animal production, which means that we can live up to the EU Water Framework Directive. It's gonna be really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144455	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144456	The rapporteur has almost replied to that. However, just to follow this up, I would like to say that the rapporteur himself says that the first step is a halving of animal production, but it is a step on the way. As I understand it, and this is the question, is it a final settlement of animal production in Denmark as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144515	There's no light in the lamp, but there is now. It is not a total dismantling of animal production in Denmark, but for us the pig is not a sacred animal, but it might seem as if it is for the Left. We have ended up in a completely wrong place with the huge animal production we have in Denmark, and there are many negative effects of that. I think it is a good idea to have good organic farming in the future, where there is less animal production as something quite natural in the sustainable production that is running.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144549	Thank you to the rapporteur. There was light in the lamp at the end. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we shall move on to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144559	Thank you. I belong to a minority, and I do not think it alone is because I am DFs, but in the party I belong to a minority because I am a vegetarian. That's very, very atypical for a DF, I can just say when I compare myself with the others in the hinterland. It's my own personal choice. But the sum of my sins is certainly not less for that reason. I feel very guilty when I eat my vices, which are macadamia nuts that come from Hawaii, or pineapples that come from Brazil, or mangoes from Myanmar, which are transported across continents with a terrible CO2 When you are a vegetarian, you also get a little environmental damage when you are around. For example: When I have the pleasure, or whatever you can say, of being in a hospital, I see that the supply of vegetarian food is quite fine. They are nice to take into account one's special needs. When I come to my uncle's nursing home and I see the meal plan, I can also see that there are vegetarian alternatives. In general, I believe that local democracy works very well. People are good at finding alternatives out there, and I really think they should get credit for that so we can all be here. On the other hand, I have seen something worrying when the opposite is the case. When you try to say that it has to be because there is a shortage of resources in the kitchen, because when they are forced on them to have vegetarian food, that's all they do. So that is something we must also be aware of. In the left, they like to drink beer. In the Social Democratic Party they like to eat red sausages, and there is also a Social Democrat who is about to have a sausage cart for his birthday; that sounds really nice. In the Danish People's Party we like to eat pork roast. At the Conservatives, they like to drink red wine. There is no one who is more incompetent in determining dietary advice than us politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144830	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144834	I can start by saying that it is not the politicians who have set the dietary advice. It is true that it is the Ministry that has set the process in motion, but fortunately we are not all dieticians and have to sit and nerdy it, because you have had a lot of experts to look at that. So these brooms aren't made as such by politicians. I think I just want to make that clear. Then I think I would also say to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker that she should not be so worried about the shipping of some of the foods she eats, because the reality is that it is only 5-10 per cent. the discharge from the food we eat, which comes from transport and packaging. It's far more important what we eat than where it comes from. It may seem a little unintuitive, but it is, for example, because when you do. choose to eat meat, it may well be that you eat Danish pig, but the feed still comes away from Brazil and it is sailed into ships. So I do not think the rapporteur should be so concerned if she eats vegetarian. I think she should rather note that she is actually doing what is very much needed, namely that we eat much more plant-based if we are to look after the planet.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144943	I had trouble finding the question in it, but thank you very much for the information. I can just say that I don't eat all those meat substitutes that are full of soy; I also stay away from them. But thanks for the info.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303144958	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303145000	You're welcome. It is a brief comment that can be made here, so you do not necessarily have to ask a question. Or you can just make a comment, and I chose to do so. But it may surprise me that the Danish People's Party, as a party that really fights for the elderly, is not a little more concerned with this plant-based food in public kitchens, because there have actually been many stories with elderly people in nursing homes who are vegetarians, but who have felt pressured to eat, for example. chicken and fish because there have not been any good plant-based options. Should it not be the case that the elderly always have the freedom to choose vegetarian if they so wish?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303145037	I haven't experienced it. There's a difference in that in this debate. There are day care centres, workplaces, etc. where you have the opportunity to bring your own lunch, but when you are older and you live in a nursing home and you have no other options and are at the mercy of the food that is there, there must be those opportunities. However, I do not think it is necessary to legislate as long as we have a system that works very well locally and if it does not, I would very much like to have some matters, and then we can look at it then.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303145108	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303145112	It is kind of curious whether the Danish People's Party has changed not only its approach, but also our attitude as to how much politicians should interfere in the diet in the individual institutions, because I am sitting here with an article from TV 2 from back in 2016 • so many years it is not since • and there I can see that the Danish People's Party believes that there are regular meetings in municipal institutions, and that is for example. crèches and kindergartens, to be served medists, to be served pork chops, to be served meatballs. It has to be said to a large extent that it is the politicians who talk about Christiansborg or the rapporteur's own party who say that here. So I just want to know: have you completely changed your position on this, and can we politicians not get involved in anything at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303145157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303145200	No, we must intervene if it happens that there are many institutions that completely avoid pork because they will take account of a Muslim minority. We must take action against this. So, of course, we have not changed our mind about it. We must at the same time preserve the Danish food habits and ensure that they are not phased out, because there are some people from other religions or other waves of well-meaning people who think you should have a different diet on the program. There it is our position in the Danish People's Party that we cherish the Danish diet.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303145235	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303145236	Excuse me, I am just a little on the floor, because the rapporteur has just agreed to a text that says: "The government is required to guarantee citizens and institutions full freedom to choose diet solutions and what to do on the plate. In other words, it makes no sense to make no sense to what is in the text of the adoption, along with what the rapporteur says here in the Chair. So what's up and down?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303145304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303145305	It is that they should have full freedom to choose what they want to eat out there and that we should not dictate that they should have green vegetarian food, as this proposal is about when it comes to climate-friendly food. As far as the other is concerned, we must always pay attention to it if there are any trends that are crying out to the sky and pulling in a completely different direction, and then we must intervene there in exactly the same way as if there are foster home residents who are vegetarians who cannot get their vegetarian food for which they pay in expensive sentences when they live in the nursing home. It is also another area in which we could take action at that time. But we have to do that where the problems are.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303145342	Thank you to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. There are no more brief comments. I would like to welcome Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303145355	You're what you eat, the minister just said. Yeah, well, I'd certainly rather be a hot roast than a limp asparagus. I have previously crossed a few blades with the minister in the so-called broccoli. That was when I was critical because the Minister shared a campaign for a new political bet to eat varied and climate-friendly: Broccoli is healthy, but not if it's all you eat. Arj, okay, come on, do you say that? It is fairly common knowledge, and that is to talk down to the Danes. In New Citizens we think that the Danes themselves can control what they consume, and nothing is farther from dictating the diet of others. This does not mean that I am opposed to the prevention of serious diseases, as the Minister wrote, because I criticised the use of tax dollars in teaching the Danes about dietary advice. I am not against prevention; I am against greed with Danes money. And the formulation that you are, what you eat, I know very well. In New Citizens we are not opposed to food advice, and as a home knowledge teacher I have taught the food pyramid and the food technical qualities and nourishment of food. In addition, I have also told both my students and also my own children that you should not waste food, how you can creatively use leftovers, freeze them down and thus both save money and eat healthy, because at the same time you save all those a little unhealthy purchases of lightning, at least I tend to when you are in the queue in Netto in the wolf's hour and are a little starving. But it's not about climate, it's about good household. The formula and the food pyramid have been here for a long time. The Danes know what is healthy and good, and the councils and the pyramid have not changed very much since the very first food pyramid came in 1976. At that time there were five diet advices: Eat varied, eat less fat, eat less sugar, more coarse, and do not eat too much. That is quite common sense to this day too. The food pyramid has also been influenced by fashion's whims over the ages. In the 1980s it was among other things. marked by the time's slender and fitness trend, and now it is so marked by the climate. The climate-friendly food pyramid was produced by Coop already in 2011, so the Ministry and the Minister are actually a little behind. The new dietary advice came in 2019, and since then there have been incredibly many millions of kroner spent on the Danes' money and it seems that even more is to be spent on the frizz in connection with patronage for climate diets. Sigh! That doesn't make any sense. And I look forward very much to getting the overall overview of how many million kroner are actually spent on the conversion of kitchens, climate broom and broccoli advertisements. This will most likely just confirm to me that here too there is a completely crazy game of the Danes' treasure crowns. Because the Danes want to eat healthy. In fact, we do the same in general. And there, too, we adults have a responsibility to our children. And as previously described, we have teachers who will teach it and tell the children about healthy and nutritious food in connection with food education, as it is said today, among other things. for their health, but not because of peripheral climate targets, which do not make the big difference in the whole. Let us be quite clear about the extreme left: Danish farmers are climate heroes. Danish agriculture is part of Danish culture, but this part of Denmark's culture is seriously threatened because the left-wing is spreading myths in the population that Danish farmers both mess with, destroy the climate, torment their animals and fill the pork with antibiotics. Thus they have fertilized the land to use an appropriate expression for a political line aimed directly at destroying agriculture. Therefore, the Danes must and must be enlightened before it is too late. They should know that more than ever they can be proud of Danish agriculture, for we have probably the world's best measured on both CO2 and thanks to a targeted effort and an innovative agricultural sector, Danish farmers' consumption of antibiotics has fallen by 38%. Since 2009. When you compare Denmark with other European countries, which also have large pig production, we are lowest in grams per year. Pig. And when it comes to pesticides, samples of Danish and foreign vegetables show that there are significantly more pesticide findings in foreign fruit and vegetables. In samples from all over the EU, it was only 28%. of the fruits which did not contain pesticide residues and in samples from Denmark it was as much as 56 per cent. of the fruits that were completely free of residues. Then you can again call for, among other things. to buy Danish in season. By the way, I also did so as a teacher of home knowledge, and that is also common sense. But I also believe that we have the world's best agriculture, and in New Citizens we generally want smaller states and more people. And if you really want the Danes to have the opportunity to buy more healthy imports too, then all because the Danes can do it, and they will. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303145939	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Valentin. Mette Thiesen, I almost expected that too).
ParlaMint-DK_20220303145944	First of all, I would just like to say that I simply think it is such a strange argument to say that the left will destroy agriculture. Without agriculture we do not have any food, and therefore it is quite obvious that what some of us who want less animal production want is not to destroy agriculture, it is to convert it so that we produce much more plants and fewer animals. It is not the destruction of agriculture, it is the development of agriculture, and it is something completely different. But I can hear that Mrs Mette Thiesen is very concerned about the few millions spent promoting the new dietary councils, and that is why I would just like to hear from Mrs Mette Thiesen whether she does not recognise that society can save billions of dollars, as a report from the University of Copenhagen has shown, if we ensure that the Danes get some more sustainable food habits.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303150042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303150044	It's gonna be hard to answer both questions. I think, in fact, that the arguments of the extreme left in relation to agriculture stand alone in this and for themselves. I am also very pleased that we, in the bourgeois opposition, were united in ensuring that an agricultural agreement was made which actually secured agriculture against the ideas of the left. With regard to the last question asked by the rapporteur, I think it is really important to look at who it really is in terms of diet. Generally speaking, the Danes eat fairly healthy and varied, but it is clear that there is also a social battle in this, and it is there that a general tax relief will come in. I haven't met anyone who didn't want to give their children a really healthy and nutritious meal, I haven't met the parents I've never met them. But sometimes it may also be a question of some other things being spared if you also have to afford it. So you can put it that way. So if the Socialist People's Party wants to help reduce taxes and taxes in general, so that the Danes can keep more of their own money, then it could also be that more people could afford to buy the healthy alternatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303150158	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303150159	I will then tell Mrs Mette Thiesen that the analysis carried out by the University of Copenhagen shows that if the Danes eat on average after the dietary advice, not that we all do it, but only on average, we save 600 million. kr. a year in health care alone, and there are total socio-economic gains of around 12 billion. kr. a year. So those peppers, which Mrs Mette Thiesen cares so much about in terms of promoting the dietary advice, are nothing compared to what we get out of it if we actually make an effort here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303150233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303150234	Now I haven't got the overall overview yet, but I really think it's problematic if there are politicians and tell the Danes that 4 million. kr. Of their money are peppers. That's a lot of money, that's a lot of money. It certainly is for ordinary Danes out there. But I actually think I will refer to some of what the Minister said in his speech, because the Minister referred to a quote which I think Svend Brinkmann wrote, and I think we all laughed. One could reduce the zest for life by 93 per cent if one ate carrots instead of Friday sweets etc. etc. Basically, this is also about people's own free choice. The Danes know how to eat healthy and varied, but sometimes you also choose differently, and the Danes should simply be allowed to do so, and there we just have great faith in the Danes in general in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303150325	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303150326	Now it is also possible to make just a brief comment. But I do not really buy the premise, as Mrs Mette Thiesen says, that if you just lower the tax, then there is money for more healthy diets. Because if we look at the increase in welfare that has taken place in society in relation to people having received more money and how consumption then lays itself out in the individual household, we can quite factually see that the more money that people have received between their hands, they have actually not spent it on their diet budget, nor have they spent it on their cultural budget; they have spent on them everything that is really straining the climate very much, namely a large car, furniture for the house and an extra journey. And it is not because I am not under the Danes, but it is just to beat down on the premise that you just automatically spend more money on the healthy alternative, processing in relation to diet etc. Because it actually turns out you don't. And that's why campaigns have an effect, that is to say, to move people's habits and to draw attention to these things, also because some of these things are really, really difficult for the individual family. That is also why I was talking about Mrs Mette Thiesen and I sitting on the Committee on Children's and Education of the Danish Parliament. Well, I think that we have a great task in guiding, forming and educating, for example. in relation to a subject like food knowledge in schools, so you actually learn it and get some skills with you in life, so you get more curious about these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303150452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303150453	I agree with the rapporteur on this last point. I guess I just feel like it shouldn't be because of climate or anything else; it just has to be because of common sense. And it's common sense that you don't cook too much food and throw out a lot, and that you also learn how to use the different things. So I'm all for that. But so, in New Citizens we are not concerned with dictating what the Danes spend their money on. However, we would also like to remove the registration fee. Generally speaking, we would like to reduce many taxes and taxes, because the Danes must of course be allowed to spend their own money as they please. So we are not going to go in dictating this, nor are we going to have an attitude towards buying in as you do. Because I can damn well understand that you buy Friday sweets instead of carrots, or that you want a big steak or some meatballs on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303150542	Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. There are no more brief comments and I would like to welcome Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303150611	Thank you for that, President. Thanks to the SF and Mr. Carl Valentin to put this request in motion. I would like to start somewhere different from climate, because it is actually the case that when you are 20 years old you turn around to live on a green diet, you get 10 years older if you are a woman, and 13 years older if you are a man, and when you are 80 years old you turn to a green diet, you get 3 extra years of life. That is of course why health costs reflect how you live and that if we live by the dietary advice or we are vegetarians or vegans, we save health care for a lot of money, plus that we get many good extra years of life because we are not quite so sick. A Dane eats twice as many animal foods on average as an average world citizen, and if I think back to when I was a child, a farmer who worked hard, perhaps a couple of meatballs and then a proper shot of vegetables and potatoes. Today it is quite the opposite, and we eat large quantities of meat. So this is not because we really have to, you can say go back, but that is something that has been tried before, and I would say that the quality of life was not inferior. That is why we also have, because we eat a lot of meat and have a broad consensus, I would say that green diet is less climate-laden than meat-based diet, a very large climate footprint, and with the 650,000 daily meals served in public kitchens, there is a good place where we can help influence development. That is also why the Climate Council says that if we make a more climate-friendly diet in public kitchens, we create climate-friendly eating habits and that it has a really important role to play in making a cultural change. Because that's what this is all about, and you can see around us that it's going well, but that it needs support because we have a 70-percent objective we have to achieve. If all Danes follow the dietary advice, there will be a global climate gain of between 2.5 and 4 million tonnes of CO2 by felling rainforest or by transport etc. So it is of great importance because the CO2 Climate Council also recommends that we get a database that is publicly available, about how much the different foods strain our climate and that it is created in collaboration between researchers and industry. Furthermore, they propose that we have a labelling system so that consumers can decide whether what they buy is climate-intensive or climate-friendly. I would add that in the Free Greens we would very much like a uniform CO2 and then I would also add that it is actually cheaper to live vegetarian than it is to eat a lot of meat. We also think in the Greens that it is important that we get turbo on courses for relevant employees in public canteens, so that you are equipped to make a green diet. We need to get away from the whole thing about having half a cabbage sprinkled with cheese as an alternative to a piece of meat. I think that many of us have experienced that in the course of time. And, of course, we must stop having meat advertising which is publicly supported. On behalf of the Green Group, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament sees the climate and biodiversity critters as some of the absolute biggest crises of our time. Research shows clearly that a change in the food system and our food habits must play a crucial role in the green transition, in the environment and in health. The Danes have one of the largest climate footprints from food consumption in the world measured per year. citizen. The Danish Parliament instructs the government to submit a bill imposing on public canteens that all meals should be plant-based and have a low climate impression, including all lunch meals being served without meat and fish. The limit value for climate footprints should be set to lead to a reduction in the climate load of 50 per cent in public kitchens. in 2030 compared to today. In addition, resources must be provided for the upskilling of kitchen staff in all public kitchens. The government is also required to develop a climate label for the climate image of food products and to set up a task force to investigate other options for promoting climate-friendly diets. • V 50).
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151151	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151156	Thank you. The rapporteur welcomes the fact that you live longer if you eat a lot of plant-based foods, and that is a good thing. When you look at it historically and look at the facts, we have also lived longer and longer over recent generations, even though you have eaten meat. So should the rapporteur not also welcome the fact that we have achieved a high life expectancy now, including with meat consumption?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151220	I am very pleased about that, but now there are other things that have a bearing on a higher life expectancy, and that is wonderful. That's one of them. a very good health care system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151231	Of course, we all enjoy a good health service, but it is not just because of it. Many people have lived a good, far longer life without going to the hospital. It is also people who have eaten a suitable portion of meat, but ate varied. The rapporteur must also be pleased about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151252	I'm glad, but at the same time we have to look at the climate. And it is serious; we could see that in the UN climate report that we got here the other day. If we do nothing, life expectancy stops rising pretty quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151308	And Mr. Anders Kronborg has got the questioning back.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151309	At any rate, I do, especially when there is a text for adoption which sounds like that. I just want to know if I heard it quite correctly, namely that the Free Greens are going to impose on the public institutions that they are no longer allowed to serve meat. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151330-2	Yes, at lunchtimes, not at evening meals; there it should be just a climate - friendly diet.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151340	This means that all our day institutions in Denmark, all our primary schools, all our 24-hour institutions are not allowed to serve, for example. a sausage horn or, for that matter, a pizza snail with meat on it? In fact, I think that is a major interference in freedom. What we were discussing here was the possibility that you could choose whether to have a green meal or whether you would rather have some meat on the plate. But to tell all Danish parents who give their little boy a little money to the booth at school that he cannot buy a sausage horn, I think that is far-reaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151424	If sausage horns are the cardinal point, I'd say you can put plant-based sausages in. You can do a lot of delicious things without having to have meat in them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151439	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. There are no more brief comments. Then we have the great opportunity to get the alternative on the table, namely in the form of rapporteur Mr Beyer de Ryke. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151456	Thank you, President. I have a great deal of sympathy for this kind of debate, and I have a great deal of sympathy in particular for Mr SF. Carl Valentin and his work for plant-based food in Denmark. However, I do not think that the debate here brings us one centimeter further towards introducing plant-based food and less meat in Denmark. The wildest thing is that the Folketing is instructing the government to investigate by the end of 2022 So, that's the softest wording I've heard since they made the text for Lille Peter Spider. It's not about meat-free days in public kitchens. It is about a study that can take the rest of 2022, where you have to assess whether you can offer meat-free meals in state canteens. And it may well be that the government finds out that you can't. We all know that the government is terrified that some people might get mad that one steak is taken away from them. The last time it tried to be a visionary in this area, it ended up with something that was described in the Folketing as the greatest retreat since Napoleon. At the end of October 2020, the government announced, not least to our delight in the Alternative, that the plant-based diet will now be promoted in state cuisine. As part of a new green procurement strategy for the state, the government made a proposal to introduce two meat-free days a week into the state canteens. In addition, the proposal called for a maximum of one day per week for beef and lamb. After all, it was an agenda that was a little bit more offensive than what is at stake today. However, it took no more than a week for the government to take it all back. Some of the trade union movement that the government wouldn't say exactly who was and who hasn't shown the courage to stand up for themselves, angled his arm on the back of the government, and the government dropped the whole plan again. Now we are starting more than over and instructing the government to investigate whether plant-based food can be offered in public kitchens. But why do we need an investigation? Well, we could oblige the state kitchens to offer plant-based food tomorrow. We could introduce meat-free days in public tomorrow. We can just look at the City of Copenhagen, which can find out, and which has long since overtaken the state kitchens. At Copenhagen City Hall, the Alternative leader Franciska Rosenkilde in collaboration with Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, SF, Radical and Left has prepared a food and meal strategy. It's 34 pages, and I'm holding this. It says, among other things, that it is part of developing greener and more climate-friendly meals and to uncover the composition and climate footprints of the current food consumption in the City of Copenhagen. The most burdensome types of meat, especially beef, are reduced in total purchases, so that the meat used is primarily less burdensome types such as poultry and fish. The total quantity of food of animal origin is reduced so that more plant-based raw materials, in particular more plant-based protein sources, are used as legumes. Targeted efforts are being made to ensure that as many green raw materials as possible are in season and grown in the open, just as fish can be bought after season. This is a direct continuation of work on ecology in recent years and will also support a goal of linking Copenhagen closer to its catchment area. In the alternative, we want to continue the cooperation that started in the City of Copenhagen, along with a number of good parties with the food and meal strategy, which, in short, has a goal of reducing CO2 by promoting plant-based food and reducing food waste. So what are we gonna wait for an investigation for? The City of Copenhagen's meal strategy can just be copy-pasted to the state institutions. But now there are the parties that, among other things, are coming. SF, Enhedslisten and Radicals, who have made an agreement to reduce CO2 Now they come with the demand for a study that certainly does not scare one of the greatest advocates of meat production in the parliament, namely the Left's Mr. Erling Bonnesen. You can examine everything you want, he said here a moment ago from the platform. And, yes, time was spent on it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151921	You're welcome. No one was praying for a brief comment, so I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl. Then we have come to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303151940	Thank you very much for a lively and committed and also an inspiring debate, I think, which shows that we in the Danish Parliament have a huge commitment when it comes to precisely our food, the climate, and how we can change our behaviour. That's a good thing. So again, a great thank you to Mr. Carl Valentin and Mrs Signe Munk for putting this question, but also thank all the rapporteurs for taking part in the debate here. It's really, really useful and positive. The commitment is absolutely crucial in this debate, because we can change things; we can achieve things that will make it better for the Danes if we just change a little bit. What we see with dietary advice is that if we start eating after them, we will see fewer people who get lifestyle diseases; then we will see people who live longer. We want to see people who get some more good years of life... it's tremendously positive... while also making a huge difference in terms of reducing the impact of CO2 it's useful. So we need the commitment, we need this debate, and no one wants coercion. Nobody wants to pull anything down on people's heads. No, what is proposed here is that you can make free choices on an enlightened basis. I think that is a good thing. With this approach and with the adoption text, which is supported by a broad majority in the Folketing, we can ensure more health, better well-being, more prevention, better climate benefits. We can also ensure savings and we can ensure a good household. And we all have a responsibility for this. Yes, I have heard that not everyone agrees with the exact text of the adoption that is nuanced on both sides. There are parties that want a little more robust measures; there are parties that want to get involved even more from society, but basically we have a broad consensus in Denmark that we can do something with these dietary councils and that we can inspire something. Of course, when you say to the Danes that you pay tribute to the free choice, there must also be something to choose from, and there is no point in finding a situation where there are canteens around in schools and other places where there is insufficient choice of a plant-based meal. That is why it must be examined and it is good to do things thoroughly before simply adopting them. That's what we're going to do here. I think we have had a good and inspiring debate. I think we have raised the level of this debate. I think we have reached agreement on a text for adoption, with a majority in the Danish Parliament moving something on this agenda. Could we then be even more ambitious? Yeah, you can always wish for that. Could you be less ambitious? That's what some blue parties want. I think it's nice that we haven't gotten into that pot. But we have landed in a good place where we are moving in the right direction, and what characterises the Danish Parliament, the majority that is currently in the Folketing, is that we want the green agenda. We will take up the challenges that are in society and solve them together. Here we can solve both a public health problem and a climate problem in the same way by eating in a wiser and more enlightened way. Thank you for that, thank you to the authors, thank you to all participants in this debate. I think we are leaving here even more committed, even more enlightened and with the opportunity to act in a really, very good way. This is a commitment, and I will continue to work on it as Minister for Food. You have to work hard every day to get results in this field. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303152334	You're welcome. But we're not leaving yet. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303152341	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. Now the text of the adoption states that the Danish Parliament is instructing the government to examine the possibility of a 100 per cent election in public kitchens by the end of 2022. plant-based meal. There I would like to hear: what is to be investigated? Well, how hard can it be? Why don't we just do it? Well, I guess it's about telling the state kitchens that there must always be a plant-based offer. What is to be spent almost a whole year investigating?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303152411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303152413	Well, I'm really happy with the question, because I'm pretty sure there can be an element of something counterintuitive in this when you ask: can it be so difficult? For many places it is fortunately the case that you can choose a fully plant-based meal, but there are also places where it is not possible to do so. We have heard this in the debate where you come out and where it is potatoes or salad bar with iceberg salad or anything else you have to eat full in if you choose not to eat meat or fish. And that's not good enough. And then it could be tempting just to say: we are just doing it; we are adopting it here. Hey, it comes with a price; if we are going to implement it here in our municipality or our region, then there is an expense associated with it. And then it is nice to know before we adopt it, so that, for example, we do so. the forthcoming municipal agreement or in the context of the forthcoming financial agreement can have an in-depth and qualified discussion on how we can then ensure that what we want politically in here at Christiansborg is also followed up with the resources needed. I hope and expect that this study will also show that in many places you can do this, where it doesn't mean an extra cost, but where it can actually mean that a little less costs are involved if you do it in the right way. But in order not to get into the situation that we have a conflict with municipalities and regions that say that it will be more expensive for them, we will look into it first. I think that is only fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303152553	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303152553-2	Well, that's the way it has to be. But why not be more ambitious? Now, in the Finance Act and also in the Agriculture Agreement, some money has actually been set aside to develop a plant-based food. If that is the case, for example. As the government mentioned earlier, it introduced a requirement that there should be two meat-free days out in the state kitchens, so a vacuum would be created which would, like it, suck into the institutions the experience we have with the plant-based food. If it had been the Minister who had been Minister back at the time when there was the great retreat compared to the two meat-free days, would the Minister have done otherwise? Would the Minister like to try to discuss the introduction of meat-free days in state institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20220303152643	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303152645	I'm thinking that if sir... Torsten Gejl is looking for Twitter, and he will see that, in connection with the fact that there was this show and I was a development minister at the time that I was out celebrating this initiative; I thought it was exciting; I thought it was brave, and what we talked about at home at the dinner table at my family's is that there's a need for these things. What happened was that a lot of people got the impression that we were trying to force people to do something. And we didn't want to. So we got enough to rush forward at a little too high speed, so that there were some who didn't quite feel they were in this. That is why we have learned from it, so we do it in an order in which we get the Danes on board. Because if we get the Danes on board, we can change more than if it is that we try to pull something down over their heads and they reluctantly start pulling the other way. That's why we do it this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303152731	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303152732	Thank you. I very much agree with the Minister that we have had a good debate today, and I also think we have come a good way, and thank you for that. The whole reason we take the debate is, of course, the Climate Council's report, in which they make a number of recommendations, in terms of how we can ensure that the Danes get some greener food habits. Could it be imagined that the Minister would convene some discussions on which of these initiatives we should use in order to change the Danes' food habits and make the public kitchens greener? I think there is a great deal in this report to address, and I really think we should just get started on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303152813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303152814	Well the good thing about this new knowledge and these new reports is that it can inspire action, and it would be crazy not to try to be inspired by this in relation to what you're doing in the future. So we're going to do a lot more pulling in this direction. Now we have committed ourselves to having this examined, and it must be thoroughly examined, even so that we can say calmly in the stomach: it is reasonable, it is reasonable, it is permissible to ensure that a plant-based meal can of course be chosen when you are in a public canteen. We just need to be absolutely sure how this is connected, whether it is associated with additional costs other than that, because we will not impose additional costs on any already economically squeezed municipalities and regions without being sure that we have the funding in place. So we're looking into things so that we can make a deal about this with peace of mind. Things have to be done in the right order. We have tried to see before that if you move forward at too high a speed, you get something counterproductive. We can't do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303152913	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303152914	Thank you. I would just like to say thank you for a good debate on this. And then I note with great satisfaction that the Minister himself says 'and I think I quote correctly: 'free elections on an enlightened basis'. Fantastic! It's wonderful as a Leftman to hear it. And then I look forward to watching whether the Minister does so in action. I myself have signed up to the fact that it was also said that you have to look into everything you want. Because that is such a part of consumer information, one might say. For as a Leftman one can only be happy to note that the Minister says: 'free elections on an enlightened basis'. Because then we've come a long way. We should not dictate what is going to be on the plate out there; it is people's different minds who have to do what we have already mentioned in the debate. But thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303153001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303153002	But we fully agree that we should not dictate; we should not drag anything down on the Danes. We must give free elections on an enlightened basis. What's just important, and that's where I might think that Mr. Erling Bonnesen and the Left are missing a little bit... this is where when you have to make free choices on an enlightened basis, there has to be something to choose from. And as the excellent and very talented rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party, Mr. Anders Kronborg said that it is no use when you stand there and have to make a free choice on an enlightened basis that you can only choose, for example. Sausage horn. That's not gonna work. Therefore, there must be a variety of options to choose from, and that is what we are working on and what lies in this text of adoption here. And that's why Mr. Erling Bonnesen and the Left, as part of their tribute to free elections on an enlightened basis, should have supported our adoption text, which would ensure that the free choice could be made precisely so that it is not just on the pretext.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303153052	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303153053	It's close that you can conclude that we say the same thing, just in different words it's amazing. At least that's what it sounds like. But then it has to show itself along the way, how far it goes in practice. Because it is absolutely right that there should be something to choose from, and we have mentioned this earlier in the debate, so I shall not repeat that. And that is not the way I think it is; we also see a good, positive development. So I just want to keep a close eye on the fact that these are not just words, but that there will also be action in relation to these things. So we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303153120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303153121	It is absolutely essential that these are not just words, but that they are also actions. And that is why it is a little strange that the Left is talking so much about a free election on an enlightened basis, but will not help to investigate the possibility that one always thinks that it is just strange that the Left will not support that study, and that is where there is a difference between the Left and the Social Democratic Party and the Government. It is because we will actually investigate this so that we can give the opportunity to choose freely.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303153148	Thank you to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Then we usually start the second round of the debate by giving the rapporteur for the questioners the floor. Then he can either start a new debate or try to sum up the debate. Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303153205	Thank you. I have given my fire speech, but I was told that there was a chance that I could say a few final words. I would just like to take advantage of this because I think we have had a good debate today. I'm gonna give you a couple of hits. I think it has been very positive to experience the Minister of Food talking so passionately about this agenda, and I hope that it will materialise in lots of further initiatives in terms of changing the Danes' food habits. We have a very big task ahead of us, and I think the Climate Council report shows this very clearly. We even have a lot of tools from them, so I just think we should get started. I also think it has been very good to hear Mr. Anders Kronborg strikes a blow for freedom today and speaks up freedom in relation to the possibility of choosing a plant-based meal in the public kitchens. I think it's a shame that Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Danish Liberal Party is no more concerned that you can choose freely out there locally, even if that choice means that you may not want to eat meat for every meal. Then I think it was a little too bad that Mrs Mette Thiesen was so hard to get through to this with the huge cost of our high meat consumption. I think that the hunt for the minister, because a few million have been spent promoting dietary advice, is completely out of proportion when you look at how insanely large health costs we could save if we decided that we in Denmark served something more climate-friendly food. I would just like to say a general word of thanks to all the parties behind this text of adoption. I think it is excellent that we now have a study on the possibility of introducing a plant-based food offer in all public kitchens. Well, I think I saw him like Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl, that you should just introduce it now? Yeah, I think so. After all, I voted in favour of it in the Parliamentary Chamber and I have gone to the polls on it. It would be nice if we decided to introduce it. Of course. However, there is no majority for that in the Folketing, and then you have to try to go other ways. Now, in fact, we have a majority that will examine the possibility, and I just think that is extremely important. In my best judgment, this will mean that we will have more plant-based food in public kitchens, and hopefully also that we will have this option once we have discovered how it can be done. Then you have to compromise a little sometimes when you want to achieve results. At least that's what we've been trying to do here from the SF. I would like to thank all those who have taken part in today's debate. I think it has been very good, I think it has been constructive and I think it has shown that the debate on food is a debate which must remain high on the agenda. And it is good that it has started to fill more, because there is no doubt that the food production that we have today has huge consequences for climate, biodiversity, our health, animals and too many other things. Those were my concluding remarks. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303153509	You're welcome. There were no comments or anyone else who wanted to speak in this context. As this is the case, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday, 15 March 2022, as I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20220303153530	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting except to thank you all for today's work in the service of the people. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 4 March 2022, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
