ParlaMint-DK_20220401100011	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen): Bill no. L 158 (Proposal for a law on lump-sum allowances for low-income households and heat sources covered by exceptional price increases during the firing season 2021-2022). Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others.: Question No. F 51 (What is the reason why the government wants to impose a ballot paper on the electorate that does not describe what the referendum of 1 June 2022 is about, namely yes or no to abolishing the Danish defence reservation?). The titles of the cases submitted will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20220401100049	The debate is open and we will give the floor to the Minister for Justice first.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401100123	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Socialist People's Party for having tabled the motion for a resolution. Let me begin by stating what cannot really be debated, namely that gross abuse of a religious relationship in any form is unacceptable. It is morally reprehensible if a priest or another religious leader exploits a relationship of trust with a person from the congregation for intercourse. Sex must always be with consent, and no one should feel compelled to have sex with another, even because of a religious addiction. Increased security is a guiding star for me as Minister of Justice and for the government, and it has been absolutely crucial for this government to ensure gender equality and to increase justice for victims of violence in close relationships and rape. The right to decide over one's own body and the free will to decide who to start a sexual relationship with must, of course, be the focal point of our legislation. And, of course, that must also be reflected in the provisions of the criminal code. That is why we also agreed last year on a consent-based rape clause, and the rape clause will be applicable in the circumstances if a member of a congregation has not consented to sexual intercourse, but has felt obliged to have sex with a religious leader because he deliberately exploits the dependency relationship of the member. However, the government also shares the proposer's view that there may be a need to criminalise those cases of gross abuse of the dependency relationship between religious leaders and people from the congregation who are not subject to the rape clause. However, as with so much else, it is also necessary to consider further the formulation and definition of the proposal and the content of the act, and precisely today the calendar says on 1 April, which is why it is not realistic to be able to table a legislative proposal in this session. So the government can support the proposal. We will continue to work on the proposal with a view to putting it forward in the next session. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401100342	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the Minister. And then we can start with the rapporteur's series. The first is the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401100354	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Socialist People's Party for presenting this motion for a resolution. After all, the proposal calls for criminalisation of cases where a religious leader grossly abuses the addiction that he has to his congregation to intercourse with a person in the congregation. I can start by saying that this is a good proposal that we support. After all, priests and other religious leaders have a central role and a special authority in the congregation, and by virtue of that role you can gain a special trust and loyalty from members of your congregation, which can end up in a real religious dependency relationship. And then it is quite unacceptable if, as a religious leader, you abuse your special role of intercourse with people who depend on you. Of course, we have a number of other rules which deal with sex crimes, including the consent-based rape clause, which, in the circumstances, will be applicable to these cases, but there is a need to make it quite clear that there are also cases outside the rape clause, and that is totally unacceptable. That is why I am pleased that the Minister for Justice has said today that we will continue to work on the legislative proposal which can be put forward in the forthcoming session. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401100507	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401100516	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Socialist People's Party for putting forward a proposal for an interesting debate which we are also following with interest. The proposal is about criminalising what is called religious leaders, i.e. priests, etc., if they grossly abuse their position... the relationship of trust that may arise between a religious leader and a member of the congregation... to achieve sexual intercourse or other sexual association with that person. There have been a few examples of this happening. Most recently there was a DR documentary called "Miss Used in the Free Church" and there was a priest accused of manipulating a number of women into engaging in sexual relations with him. It is important to stress that it was a matter of consent- The women police reported nevertheless the preacher and two of them did it for rape but the police had to drop the case, as what the law is today is not illegal in that way to manipulate or lie to sex, to tell someone that they are getting closer to our Lord by having a close relationship with the priest. Now, if it had been a psychologist who had exploited a client's vulnerability to achieve a sexual relationship, then it is something that is already punishable, and it could be punished by prison for up to one year, because there are quite clear rules that psychologists and doctors should not have sex with their clients or patients, while it is therefore a matter between the priest and God, one can say if he or she exploits or misuses the title given to him or her, to initiate a sexual relationship with a person from the congregation. The SF then suggests that we change, so that priests are equated with, for example, psychologists and doctors in the legislation... that would be by extending section 220 of the Penal Code. We in the Left would like to take a positive view of this and see if we can have a report in which we can clearly clarify the area so that we can get rid of these cases. For one is very believer and perhaps in a weak and vulnerable position, we can easily imagine that one can be so vulnerable that, as in conversations with a psychologist during soul grief conversations, one can be manipulated into a relationship that one does not want. This should not change the fact that, as a starting point, we are sceptical about legislating every time a single case pops up in the media, but here it seems that we are dealing with a problem where it is not an isolated one, but something we might fear would happen again. So we look forward to the work of the committee and hope that we can arrive at a joint report. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401100813	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401100824	Thank you very much and thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt and the SF for having tabled this resolution. There can and must be no doubt that it is wrong for a religious leader to abuse the addiction or trust that exists between the religious leader and members of the congregation. The penal code already contains a number of provisions which criminalise rape and sex without consent, and that is why I have also asked the Minister some questions about whether this has not already been criminalised. However, as I understand it, there is still a gap in the legislation where, unfortunately, these situations are not covered. In view of the fact that it should openly be criminal to abuse vulnerable people who are dependent on a religious leader, we in the Radical Left welcome this and that the Minister will table a bill. So we look forward to the work of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401100942	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401100949	Thank you. This resolution, as I understand it, is based on a very unfortunate case in which a young woman has been manipulated by her priest to enter into a sexual relationship. It is a situation that hurts your heart to think about, and it is terrible when someone you trust abuses the trust you have given them. But explicitly criminalising gross abuse of dependency between a religious leader and persons from the congregation is not such a straightforward matter in the eyes of Enhedslisten. As the comments on this motion for a resolution also show, one of the reasons why no case was brought against the priest was lack of evidence. And that is unfortunately a condition in very many cases of sexual crimes; they are very difficult to prove. Thankfully, with the consent law that was introduced, we have made it considerably easier, but that does not mean that there will not still be cases that are not raised or guilty that are being acquitted. We have in Article 220 of the Criminal Code today a protection against the exploitation of a dependency of an economic, work, treatment or care nature. That provision primarily covers people who are actually in a dependency relationship. In some cases, for example, they may be spouses, one of whom is highly dependent on the other financially. But in the vast majority of cases you are not in a relationship of addiction simply because you are married and have a common economy and a common home. On the other hand, you are most likely very dependent on your treatment when you seek medical or psychological help, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned. These are people who are subject to health rules and actually provide treatment. And I understand that you can have a relationship with your priest, who can remind you of what you have for a psychologist, but on the basis of that, a priest never does a treatment. In principle, a priest never has a relationship with members of the congregation that can create an addictive care problem. That is not their job, and therefore there is not necessarily a need to regulate the situation in the same way. However, I would also like to say that there is always an abuse if someone is subjected to a sexual act without having consented to it. However, the very few situations which the motion for a resolution wishes to regulate will in some cases be covered by the consent law. Because it is difficult to lift the burden of proof that someone has done something wrong if a consent has been given. Even if this motion for a resolution became law, and it sounds like it does, it would be almost impossible to establish that a person should have such a violent relationship with his priest that it could be used for sex. If we first engage in criminalising specific positions that go beyond the current Article 220 of the Penal Code, it will be difficult to see where to stop. Because basically, a relationship of dependency can arise in a great many types of relationships, and it is no worse to be a priest who abuses the relationship than to be a football coach on the oldboys team who abuse the relationship. It is the abuse itself that is wrong, and fortunately we have both a consent law and a law on the criminalisation of mental violence that will be possible in the vast majority of situations. Therefore, I would also like to ask the Ministry of Justice to make a paper on why this does not fall under the consent law or the law on psychic violence or section 220. I understand that the Radical Left has also asked a number of questions, and it will then fall back on the rapporteur, so that I have not read the answers to them. We want to go into this resolution very openly, because I understand 100% well the intention, which is to protect as many people as possible from sexual abuse. That intention, we share one hundred percent in the Enhedslisten. I just need to make sure we don't go down a slippery slope where we're about to criminalize, I don't know how many posts, because that's no good either. But I think we can meet in committee on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401101407	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401101413	What was at the heart of the case from the Free Church was that there was actually consent to sex. The problem is that the priest in question had manipulated, had, what can be said, groomed the person, on the basis that he came to the church and was a strong believer. And the free church, which helped to save the woman in question, also says that there is a gap in the law; it simply does not cover the manipulation that can occur when you are in this very strong dependency relationship. Does Enhedslisten not find it problematic that it can occur?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401101456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401101457	Yes, it is certainly a problem that it can arise at all, and that is also why we are going into this very openly. I think more simply that Enhedslisten's concern, I would call it, is that if we then say that this should be for priests or free church priests, then what about the next time, unfortunately, this can happen where it can be, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, the oldboys coach on the handball team, who then does not fall under the paragraphs that we have, which are about it because it is based on age? And that is why I think that we need to check whether there are any clauses in the criminal code in advance that this might fall into, or whether it would be better to make some general paragraphs, for example. a grooming paragraph that I know SF would also like to have, just as we would like in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401101545	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401101548	I think if we get a grooming paragraph, there's a lot of things that will sort out. But perhaps Enhedslisten can then tell: What is the difference between soul grief and psychological help? There will be a person who is incredibly vulnerable and who is at risk of becoming addicted to the vulnerability he is addressing. And this is where I think I might be missing something, because I think Enhedslisten said it wasn't exactly the same as a psychologist. In fact, I think that we can equate that; that there are vulnerabilities, dependencies that can be exploited in relation to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401101633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401101634	Unfortunately, there are many situations where vulnerable people are exploited. After all, we have also discussed the situation with vulnerable people in terms of dating inmates, dating people who are in prison, such as: is life-time doomed. It was also used as an argument, as I recall, from Mr. Peter Skaarup, that these were vulnerable people and that therefore a separate rule had to be made for it. And what we're really skeptical about is this knobbing that can get into the penal code. At the same time, I would say that psychotherapy, as I also said in my speech, falls within the rules of the Health Act, and there is a difference between going to your priest and going to a psychologist. Well, it's two different things. I have a lot of respect for the fact that you can choose to go to many different kinds of authorities, we can call it, with your grief or with your problems, but I also think that a psychologist would say that it was not the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401101727	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Bager.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401101733	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for putting forward this motion for a resolution on gross abuse of dependency between religious leaders and people from a congregation. In the Conservative People's Party we share the scepticism or reservations that have been about making legislation on the basis of individual cases, and I, as elected in East Jutland, have also been closely involved in the case of the free church priest in Aarhus. I am of the opinion that we should be careful to legislate on the basis of individual cases, but our reservations should not stand in the way of us covering a gap in legislation when there is a gap in legislation, and we actually believe that there is a gap here. Priests or religious leaders have a very special role in relation to congregation members, at least in special congregations, perhaps not the one in which most of us come, but there are congregations in Denmark where there is a completely different relationship of dependency between the priest and the people in the congregation there is a relationship of trust, and there is a confidentiality that can be unique and therefore we also need to be able to punish if that relationship of trust and dependency is abused. We think that there are situations that show that this can happen and we in the Conservative People's Party agree that we should put an end to this and therefore back up this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401101919	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we are going to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401101933	We in the Danish People's Party agree with much of what has been said here today. I think there have been many good and objective things, including objections to perhaps just tackling things in a way that could be the easiest way. However, we have to say in general terms, and also on the basis of the information on the table, that sexual relations between a priest and a private person can be very problematic, and I do not know whether it is only through gross abuse, as the resolution says, that this is problematic. So, from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, abuse, even without it being gross, is enough for us to have to do something about it. And in this particular case, which is also mentioned in the motion for a resolution, it is quite clear that we have something here where we abuse our authority to have sexual relations with one or more people in the congregation and where it is to compare with what we know from a medical profession or psychologist in relation to a patient and, as several rapporteurs have said, there are rules that make it criminal. But apparently it is not when it comes to the relationship between a priest of a congregation and one of the members of the congregation. So basically, we have to look at this, including legal policy at Christiansborg, and we hope, because I clearly sensed from the Minister's speech that the government is willing to look at how to make a solution here. We are also willing to make a report or vote for it if it is; it may be that we have an amendment or two, as I have said, but basically we agree that something needs to be done here. Having said that, it is also clear that there may be cases where a priest actually gets along with a person from a congregation and where this person actually wants to. So here, of course, there is an area where we have to be absolutely sure that we hit the head on the nail. But basically, the Danish People's Party thinks that the SF has some of the right things to do, and we could have thought of making a proposal for something in the same direction ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401102208	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401102216	First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist People's Party for putting forward this proposal and for having this discussion in the Chamber today. There is no doubt that a relationship with a priest may have exactly the same character as a relationship with a psychologist or a doctor or something else. Well, it's one you get to in deep, deep confidence, and you're deeply dependent on this natural balance when there's this very, very strong relationship of trust. This proposal suggests putting it here with religious leaders under section 220 of the Penal Code, where several different relationships of trust have already been defined today, such as relationships with a doctor, a psychologist, etc. We also think it sounds as if it is definitely something that needs to be looked at, because it is clear, of course, that if you use another person in this way, it is at least deeply morally objectionable. We also think it is very positive that the Left is saying that they want to help us land a report. At any rate, we would like to take part in this, and I could also understand from the Minister for Justice that on the other side of the summer holiday there will be a bill on precisely this. So I think that is positive too. However, we look forward to the work of the committee and we would also very much like to see a joint report drawn up and we look forward to discussing it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401102400	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I'll take a look at whether there are rapporteurs from LA, the Free Greens and the KD. There is not, and then we go ahead and give the floor to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401102419	Thank you for the floor and thank you for a quick debate. One might say that it is perhaps also a relatively small and uncomplicated proposal, which many have also supported here today. So I'm confident that we'll get the country a report and find a solution. I think that this proposal is in line with the consent law, but it is also in line with the rules we already have for psychologists and physiotherapists, where we must not take advantage of the dependence that can exist between them and patients. However, I also think that it is in the wake of a bill we have just discussed on criminality for the approval of rape, bigami, terror and murder as part of religious education. Because right here we also acknowledge that when one is in religious training, there can be an improper influence; there is an addiction and an opportunity to manipulate and groom, if one wants to. I believe that what is at the heart of the proposal is the victims. It is simply a matter of protecting them. The reason for this proposal is precisely this case from a free church, an African free church, with Jasmine and a number of other women, who, to put it bluntly, were manipulated into sex. I have had some contact with the free church network, which helped to save her and which just said that there could not be a case because the legislation today does not cover where you have manipulated yourself into sex. In principle, there is consent, you might say, but all the way to achieving it is of course marked by the exploitation of the dependence that exists. I think it can be very difficult to understand when you yourself are not strongly believers, and I certainly am not • how strong a relationship of addiction can arise when a person actually has a belief and feels very attached to a certain belief. It goes without saying that if you are very vulnerable and seek soul grief in connection with a life crisis, there is a potential for exploitation, because the situation is similar to that of a psychologist. At least I think so. It is really about unequal power relations that can create vulnerability and opportunities for exploitation. It is fair enough to say that there is no tsunami of cases in this area. I wouldn't say there is either. I think I am aware of three cases where there is a potential to be covered by this legislation, but I also think many times that we are making rules in the event that the situation arises. Nor do I think that this proposal should be seen here as an expression of such general distrust of our church or of other religions. In fact, I have a very high degree of confidence that the people who are religious leaders in the individual religions also go to the task with great dignity and look after the people to whom they matter. But there is a risk of abuse and therefore it is best to have it standing. I have also taken note of the fact that there are some clergymen who have themselves been supporting it, and that the Association of Priests supports the fact that we are closing this gap in the law, and so is the network of free churches to which I have had contact. So I look forward to us closing this gap together and taking up a report in committee. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401102814	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401102832	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 5 April 2022. Then we will take a super short break, where we will just have the rapporteurs and the Minister put in the right places. Then I think we're ready to get started. First of all, we have to go to the explanatory statement, and here we are giving the floor to the rapporteur of the questioners, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103053	After all, it is the Public Act that we are discussing here today and with which we have now taken a lot of rounds, but the reason for raising another debate about this is that it is almost a year since we actually adopted a proposal from the SF to instruct the Minister to call for negotiations on the Public Act. It is not, of course, because a great deal has happened, and that is why we in the SF think we would be very comfortable if the Minister came by to give an explanation and a status on that work, because now we are being a little impatient in terms of achieving a result. We can see that there have been a number of political developments, among others. The order case, the mink case and, in fact, the Tibet case, all of which are cases that can give rise to a gap of confidence between the Folketing and changing governments, between citizens and power. The root of this trust gap is also blackout in the form of a widely criticized public law; it certainly plays in. And we know that it has led to greater secrecy, it has weakened the quality assurance of key political decisions, and it has also contributed to the political crisis of confidence. That is why we are here today to look for answers to what the Minister can tell us about the status of the ongoing negotiations on the Public Service Act and how the government will then ensure that citizens have greater insight into public administration and that the challenges identified in the Public Procurement Act are addressed. So we look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103244	Thank you. Then we go to the answer, and it's with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103253	The debate on the Public Service Act is important. The law is based on a basic principle of openness among our authorities, which is, of course, at the heart of our democracy. However, the law strikes a balance between, on the one hand, the need for transparency and, on the other hand, a number of other considerations which may lead to the inability of access to documents in certain cases. There has been a debate on several occasions as to whether the right balance has been struck with the law as it is today. This applies in particular to the ministerial service rule, which limits the right of access to documents for the purposes of the internal political decision-making process. As you know, the Publicity Act is bound by a settlement between the government, the Left and the Conservative People's Party. This means that the parties in the conciliation must, as a starting point, agree before any changes can be made. I have had discussions with Parliament's parties on the law since May last year. The purpose of the discussions is to identify the desires for changes to the law and the process for it. The discussions are, of course, based on the conciliation circle, but, as I said, the Public Access Act is an important issue and therefore also an issue on which all parties have an opinion. The discussions so far, not so surprisingly, have shown that there are very different wishes among the parties of the Folketing for how new law should be drafted. As you know, I believe that the current public law represents a fair balance between the need for transparency on the one hand and the need for confidentiality on the other. At the same time, however, I recognise that there is a desire among the conciliation parties to amend the law. For the sake of political discussions, I do not want to go into details about what they are and how the negotiations are progressing. At the same time, the conciliation parties also recognise that we must maintain a balance between openness on the one hand and internal political processes which ensure that the regulation we make and the decisions we make are on the best possible legal basis, so that they are of the highest possible quality for the citizens who must be subject to the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103528	Thank you. A brief comment from the rapporteurs is now available. The first is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103534	Does the Minister himself consider that 1 year's waiting time for real negotiations on the Public Service Act is in order? Then the minister comes here and says that you have to keep it in-house. Yes, I promise you, these negotiations are also darkened. At any rate, we are some parties that are standing in the wings waiting for real negotiations to begin. So when does the Minister intend to involve the other parties in the negotiations that are taking place between the Minister and the old conciliation group in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103612-2	When there is a conciliation circle, it is of course the conciliation circle that has the right of first choice. And when, at some point, the conciliation circle has agreed on something, I think it would be natural to reach out to other parties and see if they can then look at the work that is being done in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103634	Thank you. No one else signed in. Yeah, someone just showed up, and that's Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103641	Thank you, and thank the Minister for Justice for the speech. Well, that's how we do it. in the Left has asked that we have a dialogue on amendments to the Public Service Act because we do not believe that we have struck the right balance. We have certainly been able to see this with many of the cases that have been particularly recent. But just so that everyone else can also hear where the government stands in such a position, and it is not just those who sit and negotiate: is the Minister prepared for the government to move that balance towards more publicity than there is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103727	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103728	I think the balance is right. I really do not think that there is any particular reason to change the law on public access to documents. I found that there are a number of parties that say in connection with the Scandinavian Star study: we do not want public opinion here. Of course, when those parties say so, I am complying with it, and this is the case with all the parties that, by the way, talk a lot about the fact that public opinion is extremely important. This is not so important right here, where we have a particular interest, but in other cases it is important. Of course, I'm gonna stick to that. That's why there's a bill on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103800	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103801	Thank you. The Minister says he is satisfied with the balance as it is in the Public Act today. If, at the same time, I can see that such a long time has passed and we have not really heard anything like this, it is tempting to ask whether there are any negotiations in the conciliation circle at all, with a greeting from someone who has then terminated the conciliation. It's just to know if that process is also darkened. Can the Minister tell us whether there are negotiations and how many times has the conciliation circle met about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103833	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103834	But that's the difference between being in the settlement and not being in the settlement. If you're in the settlement, you're at the table, and you're in control. When Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen says they have a desire for change, of course I listen to it, and then I have to talk to the conciliation parties about how to do it. You don't enjoy that privilege when you choose to stay outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103856	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103859	Thank you to the Minister for Justice for presenting the matter, which we have discussed on a number of occasions. It can be said that, compared to the last time and the last time we discussed it during a question, it has certainly happened that the government has accepted that now we have to negotiate, now we have to talk. So far, so good. Of course, what one can afford to be a little impatient about is that there will then be a solution. We have seen both during the Mink Commission and in Jørgen Grønnegaard Christensen's covid-19 report that everyone is more or less agreed that something should happen. We simply need more openness towards the citizens. This leads me to ask the Minister for Justice if it can be imagined that the government will wait until after a parliamentary election to come up with something that will ensure that we have some changes on this point with regard to the Public Service Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401103956	I do not think that would suit my co-conciliation parties, which is why I have one consideration to take on board. When the mediators say that they want to discuss this, we are discussing it with the aim, of course, of finding out whether it can be done better. I would just like to point out once again that the questioner's own party is among those parties who have said in the Scandinavian Star study that they would like to see less openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401104023	Thank you. Then I'm out of sign-in now, so we're gonna thank the minister in this round. And then we can move on to the round of negotiations in accordance with the general rules for short remarks. And we are giving the floor to the rapporteur of the questions, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401104057	Thank you. It is now almost a year since the Folketing adopted B 169, which was a proposal from the SF, and which instructed the government to call for negotiations on a new public law. The proposal was adopted unanimously in this Chamber, and it was also supported by the Minister for Justice's own party. On that occasion, the Minister of Justice promised to summon parties from Parliament and I quote to uncover the actual wishes of the parties for amending the law and what process the parties might see for themselves. It has now been almost a year without us having had anything that merely resembles substantive discussions of the law or discussions of a process of amending the law. This is in sharp contrast to what the Minister said when B 169 was adopted and to the broad desire of the parties of the Folketing to address the extensive criticism raised over the years by experts, commissions, media, the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament, etc. We have then invited the Minister to take stock here today, together with the parties of the Folketing, and it seems that the status is that nothing really has happened, and the Minister is quite arduous to tell us where we are in the process, and that is somewhat disappointing. That a united Parliament, which has clearly indicated that negotiations on the Public Service Act should be held up in this way, we do not think that is good enough and would therefore like to ask the Minister for Justice whether he believes that it is good governance to ignore a united Parliament. At least we don't think so in the SF. It can then be argued that there are some parties to the agreement and that it is logical that the negotiations are running in that circle, but the Minister has actually just set out to convene the parties of the Folketing and not just the conciliation circle. I also note that the Left has actually stated in the past that there must be a broad majority behind the new rules. So what exactly is the government waiting for? As you know, there are enough problems to address with the Public Service Act, and there are very many areas in which we would like to address them. We agree that there is too much today, which falls into the dark section, that there is a need for more openness about the professional basis behind the political decisions, that the provision of the law on more publicity should be given more importance than is the case today, for example, that. the epidemic area, and preferably all other areas, should be subject to the same openness as the environment. We also agree that the ministerial service rule must be relaxed, and indeed we would like to see it completely abolished, so that we have more access to professional assessments than we have today, without, of course, compromising the confidential space for political discussions. There are probably many other things on which at least some of us could agree. After all, the Left has itself announced that you want most of the above, but if you run away from it again, I think it looks bad. We have the rather paradoxical situation today that we have two public laws in Denmark: we have one that works fine and may not therefore get so much attention, it is the Ministry of the Environment uses; and then we have one that goes against the intention and instead of the darkener. The Environmental Information Act maintains a fair balance between public concern and respect for the confidential space that I hear both the Minister and the Left at all times. And I think we should look at it as a gold standard for how a new public law should be put together. I think that the government should show good governance and live up to what a large number of parties in this Chamber want, namely that we have negotiations, and then I think that good governance actually requires us to have a new public law. Against this background, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left, the Free Greens, the Danish People's Party and, of course, the SF, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that a number of political processes, including: The instruction and mink case has given rise to a gap of confidence between the Folketing and changing governments, between citizens and power. The root of the trust gap is the cover-up in the form of a widely criticised public law, which has led to greater secrecy, weakened quality assurance of crucial political decisions and contributed to the political crisis of confidence. However, the Folketing considers that the current environmental information law serves as a living proof that the absence of a ministerial service rule, as well as significantly increased publicity, does not constitute an obstacle to maintaining a fair balance between the public interest and the consideration of the confidential space required by the Minister at all times. The Folketing recommends that the government immediately open negotiations with all parties of the Folketing on a new and more ambitious and open public law based on the Environmental Information Act. Such a starting point would ensure a much-needed homogeneity in the regulation of the right of access to documents while at the same time abolishing the ministerial service rule. • V 63). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401104632	Thank you. The proposal for adoption read out will be included in the negotiations. There is obviously no sign of short remarks, so we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401104652	Thank you for that, President. The Publicity Act is something that is regularly discussed in this Chamber and also in committee rooms. The rapporteur for the SF also mentioned this. That is understandable, because it is important legislation, and it is also complicated legislation that balances on two counts. One is the serious concern for the openness and transparency of public administration, which is important in any democratic society, in order to be able to go after the rulers. The second is the need to ensure a confidential space where officials and ministers can work more informally and dynamically. It is not a secret from the debates of the last few years that the parties do not necessarily see the same thing in the Public Service Act. We have already heard that today, and then we have the right to bring up the debate again, as we have done again today, when we have among other things. asks about the status of the negotiations under way. This gives us all the opportunity to highlight once again where we are in the debate, and we think that the public law as it stands today has struck a fair balance between the various considerations. Then there are other parties that want to change all or part of the legislation. In the past, careful efforts have been made to resolve this, unfortunately without success. This is probably because, if you ask me, there are quite extensive and complicated rules on which there are many opinions and opinions. Furthermore, as you know, there is a conciliation group which must ultimately agree on possible changes. The discussions have now been relaunched. The Minister of Justice has been talking about what the latest events have been like, so I'm not going to spend much time on that. Instead, I will read out a text for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Left: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that the Public Service Act must ensure public control of the administration, which is a prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy like the Danish one. The Danish Parliament also considers that the Public Service Act represents a balance between, on the one hand, the need for openness and openness in the work of the public administration and, on the other hand, the need for confidentiality regarding certain types of cases, documents or information. Parliament notes that the Public Act is bound by a settlement between the Government (Social Democracy), the Left and the Conservative People's Party. Two of the conciliation parties - the Left and the Conservatives - have for a long time expressed a desire to amend the Public Service Act, including relaxing the ministerial service rule. On the basis of the conciliation circle, the Minister of Justice has called for political discussions with the parties of the Folketing on this subject. The Folketing instructs the Government to ensure the necessary momentum in these negotiations so that amendments to the Public Procurement Act can be adopted as soon as possible. • V 64).
ParlaMint-DK_20220401104953	Thank you. The read-out proposal for adoption will now also be included in the negotiations. Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105003	In the area of the Ministry of the Environment, there are rules on public access which differ from those which regulate all other administrations. Could the Socialist rapporteur imagine that the rules could be extended to the rest of the ministerial area and to the rest of, what can be said, the regulation of public administration?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105033	As I mentioned in my speech, and as the Minister also mentioned in his speech, we think that the rules that exist today have found the right balance. That is why the answer is: No, it is not something we can immediately see for ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105045	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105046	However, can the Socialist rapporteur see any problems in the area of the Ministry of the Environment which indicate that this should not be a good way to go about it? Has it actually given rise to any challenges? Because here we actually have a place where we have balanced somewhat better in relation to the possibility of gaining insight into public administration, and I think that is a pillar of democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105114	In other words, the rules governing the environment are, after all, some that go back to the old rule of ministerial service. And in our discussions we did not propose to change the rules that exist today, either in this area or in connection with the new rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105133	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105136	Thank you. I am actually going to try to ask the same question I put to the Minister for Justice, where I did not really think I had an answer, but it might be that the Social Democrat rapporteur could be helpful here. Because the matter has been going on for a long time and it has been discussed, and there have been cases that show that we really have a problem with the Public Service Act today, with the secrecy that is there and that is why I think it is reasonable to hear the rapporteur if we can get a situation where the Social Democratic Party will actually drag this matter all the way down after a parliamentary election, so that we just have to start over again. Or where does Social Democracy stand? Is it one's own opinion that it should happen now, that it should not wait until after a parliamentary election?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105223	I think the Minister was very clear in his reply to Mr. Peter Skaarup. And I have in my speech also listed what it is like for us to stand, and I did so in relation to the previous question, namely that we think that a proper balance has been found in the legislation that we have now. That is why I think it is a little up to the eyes to see whether there is a need for change. I understand that this is a complicated discussion because it is complicated legislation, but we are not a place where we think there is a basis for changing it. After all, there are some political discussions and they are led by a very, very clever Minister of Justice, and that is why I think it is best for him to keep leading them and also to inform us when there are negotiations and when we can expect that there will be an end to those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105313	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105315	Yeah, I can see that it's very convenient to leave it to someone else who doesn't do anything. In other words, the question is whether there is a serious will on the part of the Social Democratic Party to ensure, on this side of a parliamentary election, that we get the problem that Jørgen Grønnegård Christensen and the Covid-19 report actually pointed to as far back as a year ago when the discussion arose. Is there a serious desire to resolve this before a parliamentary election, or does one really want to push it, to some others in the Folketing with the power of government?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105355	No, I don't see that there's a desire for that. I think it is very important to reiterate that the position of the Social Democrats and the government in these discussions has not changed. Well, we have said from the outset that we think that there is a fine balance in the cut that has been made now. Then there are some others who have other wishes, and the first discussions of them will then take place with the parties with which we have reached a settlement. These are the ones we have some discussions about now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105422	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105425	Thank you. Thank you, too. Bjørn Brandenborg. I'm glad to hear that sir. Bjørn Brandenborg thinks that we have a good Minister of Justice other than that would also be surprising. Perhaps you can also mention the rest of the government so that no one feels passed over. But what I wanted to ask was whether the Social Democrat rapporteur considers it realistic that we can meet on this and reach a settlement. Because when we are some who want to relax the public law and others who think it is good as it is, there are some who have to give in. We may be the ones who have to give in, and I just can't say that's gonna happen. Well, we're gonna demand changes. And that means, of course, that social democracy has to move. Is there the goodwill on the part of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105509	But I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rest of the Socialist Government. I think they are doing an excellent job; there should be no doubt about that. So, thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen to give me the opportunity. In fact, I could spend the last 50 seconds on that too, if it were to go through some of the many good results we have done. But with regard to the question put by Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, I would like to say that this depends on the parties. Now I was going to say that there were two to tango, but that is not what we should do in this case where we are three conciliation parties which have these discussions. And my experience is that it is good discussions, and then it must be up to the further talks in the circle with the Minister of Justice for the table end to see where we are landing. There is no doubt about our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105555	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105557	I am glad to hear that, because if you are going to dance tango, it is no use for one side to stand completely still; at least it will be a rather dull tango. So I am glad to hear that, after all, there is a willingness to move within the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105614-2	Yes, unless one acts as a leader or director and in this way the others tell the others how to dance. You could imagine that, too. That's not the experience I have in this case. I see that there is a good dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105629	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105647	Thank you for the floor and once again thank you to the SF for raising the question debate. It is probably ten years since the rapporteur and I were involved in concluding the agreement on the public law that we have today, and then there has since been party after party that has got cold feet and that has withdrawn from the public law. The Radical Left was also a member of the original conciliation parties, and now we are in the situation where there are three of us left: the Left, the Conservatives and the Social Democrats. After all, we have not concealed the fact that the public law we adopted at the time has, in practice, been given a different content from that which we adopted at the time, or at least that which was our view of what we adopted at that time, for example the principle of public access, that is to say, the fact that, just because you can keep something hidden, you do not have to do so, and then, by means of the principle of public access, you can choose to give access to documents, even if you do not really have a duty to do so. I think we can say that principle is not one that has been given the very big role around the ministries, and now I have expressed myself very diplomatically. The ministerial service rule itself has also emerged, not least during the Corona crisis and as documented by Jørgen Grønnegård Christensen and others. in their report, to have been used to keep things secret and outside access, which, in the view of the Left, should be covered by access to documents, and that was why we decided to report that we wanted the Public Access Act to be relaxed. And now that there is a question debate today, which we have not taken the initiative to travel, but which the SF has taken the initiative to travel, I would just like to say thank you for that, because we want to put pressure on the government for these negotiations to get some momentum. Because this has not happened quickly, and there may be all sorts of good explanations for that. We have all been more or less laid down by the corona, and now there is a war in Ukraine etc., but this is important. It is important to change those rules, and that is why we think it is quite good that we have a debate today which can help to speed up the negotiations. That is also what the text of the adoption shows, in other words, that progress must be made and that they must be completed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105935	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401105940	It is true that it took a little longer for the Left than it did for the SF to recognise that there was a need for a change in public law. But it is fine that we now have a common understanding that the regulation that lies is not sufficient or good enough. I would like to know what the Left has done in concrete terms to change the public law. It's been almost a year now. So what exactly has the Left done to make sure that this has a momentum? I am thinking that it is not possible to be satisfied with the fact that a year has actually passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110020	We understand that this corona crisis has taken up a great deal of resources, not least in the Ministry of Justice. So we have an understanding of that, I think we all have. So what have we done? Yes, we have come up for the negotiations to which we have been invited, and we have delivered our wishes on how to see the public law changed. We have handed this over to the Minister in writing. This is not something that can be accessed under section 27 of the Public Access Act. But it is also fair that we have some negotiations, first in a conciliation group, that is also what is meant by a conciliation procedure and then try to spread it out. And these are some changes that are good and that are substantial and that will be able to shift the balance. We do not believe that the balance has been struck properly. I think everyone recognises that there is a balance, that everything cannot be public. There is also no public access to the SF group meetings. But have we struck the balance correctly? No, we haven't. And the proposals we have put forward will shift the balance to a place that I think even SF will be positively surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110123	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110126	I've actually had a little trouble figuring out exactly what the Left wants, because when I look at different places like that, there have been a little different reports. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen and I have also been on a radio program where Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen said it was much wider than what I was imagining. So I would really like to hear: what exactly is the Left proposing to change?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110156	When we negotiate in a conciliation circle, we negotiate between the three parties in a conciliation circle, and that is the advantage of being involved in a conciliation. In other words, if the SF had not terminated the settlement for its part, SF would have been involved in those discussions. That's the way it is. There is a difference between whether you are in a settlement or not in a settlement. That is why I must then disappoint the SF; I will not tell you exactly what the Left has put forward in the negotiations. We take them internally, and when we get to something, what we hope to do there is also the possibility that we don't do; but if we get to something then you can see what it is from the SF and all sorts of other people. In other words, it is not appropriate to negotiate here in Parliament or in newspapers or in radio programmes. It is therefore appropriate to sit together in a negotiating room and discuss things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110244	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110248	I now hear from the rapporteur on the Left that there could also be an opportunity for nothing to be achieved with the government. Then I get a little curious whether the Left will follow some of the rest of us who have terminated the settlement and terminate the settlement. After all, we hear from the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur that everything is good as it is today. They are quite satisfied and, as a government, they have the right to serve in some way. What is the position of the Left if we do not get through with the wishes that we have, after all, to relax the law on public access to documents?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110328	Let's take one problem at a time. I think we should do that. I am not going to relate to the hypothetical situation that we are not achieving the goal. But it is true that this is an opportunity, and that is also why I asked both the Minister and Mr Delors. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democratic Party, whether you are prepared to move in these negotiations. Because if the government and the Social Democrats think that this law is fantastic and cannot be done better and that everything is good, then it will be a little strange negotiations. That's why the government has to move. The government does not have 90 mandates, and I would like us to be able to use the mandates more often outside the government and here I am looking at the SF to get some things through, because it can be done when we stand together when there is a minority government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110408	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110411	Thank you for your answer. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt asked whether the rapporteur of the Left would like to comment on what exactly is wanted. This has been handed down in written form and, of course, without access to documents. But will we then, in more vague terms, go into what the Left would like to do? In fact, I sincerely hope that we will have a new public law, and I hope that the Left will do so. It could be that the Left has more similarities with some of the parties that have terminated the conciliation than with the Social Democratic Party. So can one put it in such looser and imprecise terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110453	It is, of course, as the text of the adoption also shows, among other things. The rule of ministerial service, which we believe is too closed out. This is among other things. The one we need to look at. And as I also mentioned in my speech, it is the principle of more public opinion and whether we can do something here. Then there are also a number of other elements of the Public Service Act that we would like to change. But I am not going to present it exactly. And then that happens, and you can set the clock after the Radicals, SF and Enhedslisten and 97%. of the Danish press corps will say: It is far too little, it moves nothing at all, and it is hopeless all. So that is something we take in the negotiating room, and then we hope that the result we come out with will also receive an acknowledgment from the parties on the left of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110537	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110542	That's just the last thing, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen said here that makes me ask a question. I'm sorry, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen is not that what we call the principle of publicity is elastic in meter size? So what exactly is the Left going to do more about the principle of public access to documents? The way it is today, for example, can be assessed. in a board or in a ministry, whether this falls within the principle of publicity: no, it does not. All right, let's go. Well, it's kind of a bit, yeah, rubber band in meter size.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110619	Yeah, it's kind of worse than that. For the principle of public access to documents is being applied in such a way that consideration should be given in the Ministry to whether or not to give more publicity. That's all you have to do. And then you look, and then you say: should we give more publicity here? Boom, boom, we're thinking about it a little back and forth. No, we don't think we should. And that is the answer that comes from some ministries almost every time and from other ministries less often. However, as I also said in my speech, the principle of public access has not been implemented in the way we had imagined when we made the compromise. Because when we did the conciliation, we were convinced that this would lead to the fact that, unless there were serious reasons to exempt a document from public access to documents, then access to documents would have to be granted. Why not? And, unfortunately, this has not been used in practice. That's why it's one of the things you could go in and look at with a certain effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110711	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110713	Well, that is exactly what Enhedslisten's criticism of the principle of public access to documents is at least the way it works today. So it's also just to hear that you don't cheat on the scales like that and just highlight the principle of more public opinion a little more. And then it just goes on as usual. Well, that's the situation we want to avoid in the Enhedslisten. And that is why I would like the Left to be a little concrete in terms of what will then be done to ensure that the principle of public access to documents is applied according to the intention that was so evidently involved. I mean, does it have to be in a different way in the law, or what do you imagine?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110755	Yes, of course it has to be in a different way in the law. Otherwise, it will just work as it has done so far. How things are going to stand in a different way in the law is what three parties in the engine room are trying to make some really good bids for. That's the difference between being in a settlement and standing outside. I would also like to hear how Enhedslisten thinks it could be formulated. Please send an e-mail. We could use all the inspiration we can get for concrete changes and not just criticism. Criticism is fine, but if it is constructive and can be used for something, it is very good if you can then get some very concrete proposals on how things could be better put together. And there, among other things, have... The Danish Journalists' Association has been out with some good suggestions, which we have also been inspired by.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110836	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401110851	Thank you very much. Transparency is crucial in a time when confidence in politicians is at the bottom and where fake news flourishes on social media. It is a prerequisite for our democracy that we can look at the powers in the cards, but that is not enough for today. We must and must have a new regime around the pillar of our democracy that the Public Service Act constitutes. And it is true, as the rapporteur of the Left said, that in 2013 the Radical Left helped to introduce a new public law. We have regretted this since then, because while the aim was to create more openness in a number of areas, we ended up in even more areas with more secrecy. And it is for us to see, in particular, the controversial ministerial service rule, which is responsible for cases which are of public interest being obscured and impossible for journalists to dig in. That is why we in the Radical Left really want to see it abolished altogether. We would like to return to the legal situation that existed before 2013 when this Public Service Act came into force. In essence, then, we would like the Public Service Act to be changed from a law of secrecy, as it is today, to a law of openness. And I think it is a pity that the Minister has hesitated because, as the SF rapporteur correctly points out, it is a year since a unanimous Parliament decided that these negotiations should begin. And I also think it is a pity that the Minister is not more open about the process. After all, it is not about political disagreements, I recognise that we have them. But one could of course be more open about the process, since we are now also talking about openness. In conclusion, I would just like to say that the Radical Left is a co-signator of the text adopted by the SF rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111052	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111106	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the SF Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt and Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen for raising this question, as it is a matter which is dear to the Enhedslisten and me. As most people probably know, Enhedslisten has been very opposed to the restrictions that were adopted by an alarmingly large majority in 2013 when a new so-called "public law" was made. It would probably be said that it was a blackout law that was made in 2013. It has not puzzled us in the Enhedslisten that the ministerial service rule in particular became one of the major problems of the public law passed at the time. In the Enhedslisten, we were already very critical of the law-making process and asked a sea of questions where the then Minister's reply indicated that precisely the ministerial service rule and other problematic clauses of the bill would lead to a much greater secrecy in the public administration and around the political process. Since 2013, the then broad majority has started to crumble, as we are hearing today. Parties that have been in government in Denmark for a short or long time have fallen from one after another and thank you for that. I am sincerely pleased that there are so many of us who are now in favour of a more transparent society. The only reason we haven't changed in this public law is that the 2019 elections unfortunately, I would say, from Enhedslisten's perspective, ended up with the two old power parties, the Social Democratic Party and the Left, all together having a knack-ass majority in the Folketing. And the constellation in which the Left and the Social Democrats are the only ones who support anything, we actually see almost only on issues that are about the Public Act or other things that are about the centre of power, or for example. In the case of pension schemes, the amount of the pension is calculated on the basis of the amount of the pension and the amount of the pension. The worrying thing, I think, is that in all of the last 100 years either the Social Democracy or the Left have been in government in Denmark, and when one of the two parties has had a period of opposition, over the last 100 years it has turned out that they have returned to government when the majority changed. It has been a great obstacle, I would say, to many things, especially for the Public Service Act. The government sits on seats in the Folketing, which is elected by the population. The government must look after the interests of the people and the people have the right to know what is going on. In a democracy there must be full transparency when it comes to what the rulers are doing. How else are you supposed to trust what's going on? If you want power, you also have to accept that you are going after the nails, that you are being looked at in the cards, because hopefully you have nothing to hide. We have had a law in the past that worked, so there is not really much to negotiate on, I think. The law must be brought back to the way it was before 2013, or, as Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt pointed out earlier in the debate, we can actually just follow the environmental law's rules of information. It's really very simple, I think. I can also inform you that we in the Enhedslisten have put forward a bill to reinstate the Public Service Act so that it will look as it did before 2013. This is being discussed in this session, so I am glad to be able to say that we will have this discussion again. In conclusion, Enhedslisten is part of SF's adoption text.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111441	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111448	Thank you for that, President. With the speech just given by Mrs Rosa Lund, it could sound like Enhedslisten is a party without any influence whatsoever in this Parliament. And as far as I know, Enhedslisten is part of the understanding paper, and if this is such a big case from Enhedslisten, then I would like to know why it has not been written into the understanding paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111512	I think that is a very good question, and Mrs Britt Baker should know that it was not because we were not trying to get it into there there were many things we were trying to get into the understanding paper that failed. We tried, for example. I would also like to point out that a number of the quota refugees that Denmark should take should be added. It didn't work out either. And it is because we are four different parties that have made that paper of understanding, and one of those parties is the Social Democracy, which thinks something different about the Public Act than Enhedslisten does. And there we have to note with satisfaction that we can find some new friends on the other side of the political spectrum, among other things. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, sir. Peter Skaarup and Mrs Britt Baker himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111543	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111550	Yeah, but there were a lot of things in that understanding paper. There was something about consent law; there was something about more equality; there were other things that Enhedslisten has negotiated. So, when Mrs Rosa Lund stands and hascelesates against the Social Democrat Party, for which Mrs Rosa Lund's party is the support party, and which Mrs Rosa Lund keeps putting the voice to sit in power, I am actually surprised that we are not using just a tiny bit of the influence we have to either get it written into the declaration here or to press the Social Democratic Party to introduce more openness.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111642	We feel that way in the Enhedslisten and I actually think that the Socialists feel that we do not regard ourselves as a support party for the government, but as a parliamentary basis. And that is because there are so many things we disagree with the Socialists about; it is particularly in the area of justice, and it is particularly in the area of foreigners. So I guess that's why I'm up here harcelating. That is because we do not agree with the Socialists on exactly what the public law says. And if it were for Enhedslisten himself, it would have been in the understanding paper. But it was the case that there were to be 90 mandates behind that paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111708	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111712	After all, no one is saying that we should make a paper of understanding or a basis of government. You can't do that. In other words, we have negative parliamentarianism in Denmark, and that means that a government does not need to have a majority behind it; it just must not have a majority against it. I think there are a lot of people who eventually perceive Enhedslisten as a party that roars and thunders and yells and scolds, but when it comes to the matter, you don't dare so much, that is, pure theater order. Is that not a fear that the rapporteur can have?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111747	Actually, it's a fear I have every day, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, I would say. I am, in addition to being a legal rapporteur, also a rapporteur for foreigners, which is why I am very much arguing with the government. So it is certainly a fear that I myself have every day, and I have to say that we sometimes manage to pressure the government to do something like this. to take back 14 Danish children from Syria.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111805	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111808	Yeah, and congratulations on that. But are we generally satisfied with the results achieved by Enhedslisten? For the problem is that if it is always that the wolf comes, and uh, but you never take seriously your threats and use the power that you have, you have mandates in the Folketing to overthrow a minister or, for that matter, to overthrow a government so that it is not taken quite seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111842	I'm very much in agreement with Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen, for a rare time, is that when you threaten something, you have to be ready to take seriously your threat, and I am wondering where the threat was in my speech about the Public Service Act. It wasn't really there. So I do not understand why the issue is being raised in this debate. After all, in the Enhedslisten, we have said very clearly that the government must deliver on the issue of inequality and child poverty, but that has nothing to do with the public law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111907	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111910	I have two questions for Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Do we agree that there was not the government that is doing now if the Enhedslisten was not parliamentary basis and supported the government? That was one question. The second question is: what is the limit if we now assume that we get a clear answer to the first question, so that the government that is sitting now can hold the playroom with Enhedslisten in relation to some key points? And is this really a less central point for the Enhedslisten, since at no time has the government put the chair at the door?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401111956	I find it very exciting that in a question debate on the Public Access Act, we are now discussing how the Enhedslisten is a parliamentary basis. But I think this is an interesting debate and I would like to reply. We have said very clearly, sir. Peter Skaarup, both to the government and to our voters, that where the border goes is that the government has to deliver on issues of inequality, that is, there has to be more equality and on issues of child poverty. Does this mean that we do not care about climate, that we do not care about the public law, or that we do not care about equality or equal pay or anything else? No, it doesn't, but sir. Peter Skaarup himself has tried to be a support party slash parliamentary basis for a government, and therefore Mr. Peter Skaarup also very well that you sit down and make some political priorities. We have also done so in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112036	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112041	One might say that in relation to economic equality, if that is what Enhedslisten is going for, it is certainly not going very well, but we can take that up another time. In relation to the issue we are discussing here in the Parliamentary Chamber today, about the Public Service Act, we have a parliamentary situation in which the Enhedslisten sits completely alone and sometimes at least leaves the government with the Left and Conservatives and perhaps some other parties. So, Enhedslisten sits in a corner shouting with SF and Dansk Folkeparti and some other parties that something must happen now, and that we cannot have a situation where we come on the other side of the next election until something happens. Isn't it true that Enhedslisten is actually letting the government play with the ball?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112129	No, I certainly don't think so. And in relation to the issue of inequality, that is something that will be taken up in the benefit negotiations that are about to start. So that debate is quite convinced that we are going to take both here in Parliament and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112142	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112146	Thank you. I'd like to stay on the same ball street, but a little less polemical maybe, after all, because I have a concern. I understand that a government is not being overthrown on the basis of anything, but the situation is, of course, that on a good day we have a Conservative People's Party that wants to get rid of the three paragraphs proposed by the Ombudsman and, on a bad day, a Conservative People's Party that has the prospect of ministerial posts, perhaps even with a PM post, and do we know where they stand? So, up to the 2019 elections, Conservatives wanted to get rid of the three paragraphs. I fear that Conservatives are changing their attitude now that Conservatives are standing as well as they are, and maybe they can take government offices at a different level than they have been doing for some time. So right now, we have a great opportunity to push the government. It's even a government that loves blackout. Well, you can see it on the Minister of Justice. You can see it on him. So, is there anyone in this Parliament hall who loves cover-up more than the current Attorney General? I doubt it. Then can't Mrs Rosa Lund see that this is a great opportunity, not least in view of what we are up against?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112256	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112259	Yes, I can do that, Mrs Pernille Vermund, just as I also assume that Mrs Pernille Vermund can see that this is a great opportunity to kick Mr Pernille Vermund. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, no, don't kick him, but just poke him a little over this question. For Mrs Pernille Vermund's party, New Citizens, and the Enhedslisten are in that way in the same position to be in some way for a wing party that would like to see a particular political direction. In the Enhedslisten, we believe that social democracy can deliver that direction a little bit better than the Left, because Mrs Pernille Vermund I assume it is the other way around.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112334	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112337	Well, we're happy to buff, and sometimes I'm willing to hand out kicks, if that's what it takes, so verbally, don't physically just calm down. But that doesn't change the fact that it's not sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Prime Minister of today. Nor does it change the fact that the current Prime Minister is Prime Minister of a government in which we have experienced a lack of clarity: deleted text messages, minkskandalen, and what else we have. I'm smiling again, sir. Minister of Justice, but from my perspective, we have seen a completely unseen secrecy and an unseen exploitation of the possibilities offered by the cover-up law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112417	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112419	I fully agree, Mrs Pernille Vermund. I just think that the situation we are in now means that the Left Party, the Liberal Party of Denmark, is about to get a little together in this conciliation on the Public Access Act, because the situations that Mrs Pernille Vermund mentions, the Minkskandalen, the whole question of the Corona Management, where there has been very great secrecy, have actually caused the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, to wake up a little and ask: is there perhaps some problems with this Public Access Act? So I would actually say that in terms of having the greatest chance of bringing together 90 seats for another public law, it depends on the Left, because I do not think that the Socialists are moving forward for the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112457	Thank you. There are no more entries for short remarks. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112513	Thank you. The Public Service Act is intended to ensure public control of the administration. This is a prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy, as the Danish democracy is. And it is important that there is a balance between, on the one hand, the need for openness and openness in the work of the public administration and, on the other hand, the need for confidentiality regarding certain types of cases, certain documents and certain information. In fact, I believe that all the parties in this Parliament agree on that. What we do not agree on is where the balance point is. That is also why only a part of us are involved in the conciliation that has been concluded in this area. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that the public law needs a review. For several years we have expressed our desire to amend the Public Service Act, and we have expressed our desire to look at the possibility of relaxing the ministerial service rule, but this must be done while maintaining a confidential space around the internal and political decision-making processes. These discussions are now under way, and we look forward to them continuing in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112631	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112637	Is it true that the Conservative People's Party in the run-up to the elections in 2019 together with among others. The Liberal Alliance and the parties who are sitting here today agreed to remove, in other words abolish, the paragraphs which the Ombudsman proposed to remove, among other things. the ministerial service rule? And is it really understood that we have now gone back a little, that is to say that we have changed our point of view a little? And can it have anything to do with being quietly entering some government offices, ministerial offices again? Is that the reason for this, because then, frankly, I get worried, or is it just because you forgot what you said in the 2019 elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112720	I hope, then, that the last thing that Mrs Pernille Vermund says here is true. However, there is no indication of that right now, and we are not a party that changes its attitude after whether or not we are on our way to government offices. But we are a party that is actually concerned about where the balance is, because there is no doubt that the public law that has been passed now requires changes, and that is what we are discussing right now. It requires that something be changed, it requires that something be relaxed. And where the balance point is, of course, what we are discussing in the negotiations, and I will continue to discuss this in the negotiating room with the conciliation parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112758	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112801	However, up to the 2019 elections, the difference between the Conservative People's Party and the Left and the Social Democratic Party was precisely that the Conservative People's Party wanted to abolish the ministerial service rule. The other two parties wanted to adjust the ministerial service rule and replace it with something else. I just have to ask: does the Conservative People's Party stand in the same place as the party stood up for the elections in 2019, or has the party changed its position?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112827	We stand in the place of a balance between public opinion and blackout, and that balance is not there right now. That is why we are sitting with our conciliation parties and discussing what can then be relaxed so that the balance finds a better balance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112844	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112847	I think we can now see that there has been a slight shift in Conservative policy from government to now. I would really like to ask the same question that I asked a former colleague about, namely the environmental information law, which is now working on the environment. I want to know if Conservatives could imagine that it could be a viable path. I know there have been no significant problems. There have been no challenges in the balance between the consideration of what can be said to be able to make political agreements and then the public's ability to gain insight, which is, of course, better than the public law we currently have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401112934	After all, there is no doubt that we see that there must be relaxations in the provisions of the Public Service Act now. One of the things we are discussing is, of course, whether the environmental protection law can be passed on to it. But I do not want to stand here and give any guarantee that this is the way we are going, because it is not certain that this is the way we are going to go. I will give the guarantee that we look with an open mind at all possibilities, and we discuss this in confidence with our conciliation partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401113003	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401113008	You can think about a lot of things. What I actually wanted was the Conservative People's Party's position on the rules we have on the environment today. I did not get them here, so I would like to ask how many meetings the Conservative People's Party has been invited to in the conciliation circle on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401113026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401113029	I am simply not in a position to reply to that, because it is Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, who is negotiating in our area, and I have no access to his calendar here from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401113036	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. We can then move on to the next rapporteur, that is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401113101	Thank you for that, and thank you for the questions here. In fact, we think it is very good that we should have this debate, and I think that we have already become a little more aware of where, among other things. The government is standing. Or perhaps we are not really, we have not become much wiser about what is going to happen, but we have become a little cleverer about where the fronts are and where there might be some possibility of pushing the government. This is what this is all about, just as the question debate we had last time did. It is really about getting the government out of the holes and getting it pressured to do something soon and preferably before the summer, but at least before a parliamentary election comes, because then, you can say, it all starts all over again, and then the time goes well enough. After the debate here, I have some doubts as to whether it is really the aim of the government and the Social Democrats that we should all think: it is now in good hands over there in the Ministry of Justice, and something is going to happen. But all of a sudden, time's up and the game's over. Then the whistle's off, and then we're gonna have choices, and then it all starts over again. Then we will be there in 2, 3 or 4 years, and then the government that is going to sit also seems to be a difficult matter. Then there will be a new government and then there will be a new government and so on. You can see it, can't you? It cannot go on, some people have to do something, and it is then a majority in the Folketing, and it can be said that there are some parties here that are slow. The question is, how long are they stalling in this case? We'll see about that. But, overall, it has to be said that, despite the hopes of the opposite, the Public Service Act has ended up being a law which, in some key points, gives the public and citizens less insight than was actually intended, and it has never been the case that we in the Folketing should be enthusiastic that we gained less insight. Then, when effective committee work and commissions point to the same thing, all arguments are there for rolling back some of the negative consequences of the law and finding a new basis. All the arguments here for us to do so. After all, we are a well-developed society which many countries look up to and which is in control of things. We can sort of deal with corona; we can work with most countries in the world; we have diplomatic relations with everything that can creep and go; we are members of the UN, NATO and the EU, etc.; we can do a lot of things in Denmark; we are proud of our country; we can win big football matches; we can do anything. So the question is, how is it that we can't figure this out? So it's kind of a mystery. And who is it that prevents that from happening? Because that is something that restricts journalists' ability to look at the legislators very carefully. It suits an open society that you can. All we have to say is that when we apply for access to key documents, documents come to the public, and we can all see the result of these documents: everything is crossed, there is perhaps a single word or two that is visible, but otherwise everything is crossed. One might think that there were some individual names that were crossed over, but that is almost everything that has been crossed over. We cannot really be familiar with this, and it also helps the citizens out there to think that they cannot really trust this part of our public system. So we basically believe that in a society like Denmark we should have as much openness as possible. That is why we have supported this question and that is why we have supported the proposal for adoption and hopefully we can help to bring the government's work into a higher and faster gear. We would like to see the support parties that the government has, which are, after all, the whole basis for a social democratic government to be in place and made it a top priority issue on the political agenda. Before that happens, it might be hard to move a lot, because then a lot of balls can be played around before someone does anything. But if the Enhedslisten, if the Radical Left and the SF tell the government that it has to be now, then it will also happen, because then it is the survival of the government that is at stake. Is that what you want? That's the big question. But if you do, something will happen, and then the government will have to get out of the holes. That's what we're hoping for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401113611	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401113626	Exactly two years ago, in February 2020, we first dealt with the proposal by the Parliamentary Assembly of New Citizens for the abolition of the Ministerial Rule of the Public Service Act. The hope of obtaining a majority was then bright green, because prior to the treatment several of the parties who voted in favour of the cover-up of the Public Service Act in 2013 had announced that they would abolish the ministerial service rule • including the Conservative People's Party • and the Left Party had as co-signators on a manifesto of openness together with among others. We in the New Citizen called for more openness of the government in relation to the Corona resolutions. The Publicity Act extends far back in time, and originally was the starting point of the law's openness. However, in 2013, a new and applicable public law was passed: the blackout law, as it is also called, because it has reduced transparency. A large number of important documents can be exempted from access to documents by means of the ministerial service rule introduced by the new law, even though they have been exchanged between different authorities. Before the introduction of the ministerial service rule, the starting point was the opposite. Access to documents could only be restricted to a very small extent. Several of the parties who voted in favour at the time have, as I said, regretted. This is welcome, but unfortunately it is not enough to give a majority in order to give more openness to the work of the government. And despite last year's promises of negotiations, everything suggests that the Social Democrats are doing their best to hold onto the cover-up. It is the rules of democracy that the majority decides the manifesto of openness or not. I do not understand why the Left only wants transparency on special occasions, but perhaps the rapporteur can answer that and why the Conservative People's Party now seems to have changed its position in relation to the abolition of, among other things. Mr President, maybe one day the Conservative President will have to respond to the rule of ministerial service. In New Citizens we want openness on all 365 days of the year, because the Danes deserve to gain insight into what is happening. Darkness has made it difficult and, in several cases, completely impossible for journalists and citizens to gain insight into important information. The lack of openness on the part of the authorities is totally untenable in a democratic society. It is not small things that the ministerial service rule in the cover-up law has covered up what it has prevented journalists from spotting and what it has prevented the Danes from getting answers to. The ministerial service rule was used to cover up parts of the case of Turkey's release of the suspect behind the assassination attempt at Lars Hedegaard. The ministerial service rule also meant that journalists could not have access to a case of IS terrorists in Syria raising cash assistance in Denmark. And during the corona crisis, the ministerial service rule has also darkened material and correspondence across Danish authorities, which are the basis for government decisions. These are just a few of a large number of examples of what the ministerial service rule creates from problems in relation to public access to documents for the Danes. The ministerial service rule is basically about ministers being able to prevent citizens from gaining insight into information that ministers do not like to share and maybe that is the answer; something could indicate it. In any case, cover-up is totally unacceptable. The Freedom of Information Commission has recommended that the ministerial service rule be revised in order to give greater weight to the freedom of information and to ensure access to the facts underlying the political decisions. I and New Citizen recommend the same thing. The Danes deserve to have insight and to know the truth. New citizens naturally support the SF's proposals for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114027	I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I do not see any rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, the Free Greens or the KD, so now it will be the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114053	Thank you, President, and thank you for the debate. I think it can be said about this debate that nothing new has been said. No one has moved a millimetre in any view, no party has shown the will to listen to what other parties have said. Everyone has repeated the positions and camped at the top of the position that they had already taken, we have been through another ritual washing about the Public Service Act. There is a settlement that is a desire for change, the conciliation parties are negotiating. There will be a solution, and we will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114131	There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114142	I think the Minister of Justice is very hard on Mr. Knox. Bjørn Brandenborg, I honestly don't think, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg has earned such a svada, but leave it alone. After all, it is not a well-preserved state secret that it is not necessarily in the debates in the Assembly, things are being moved, but that it is quite often something that happens in a negotiating room, and I think most people can understand that what we have to agree on is not something that will be presented here during the debate. But when maybe we could get a little closer, and we've made a joint text for adoption, and we're happy about that, where we write that this has to happen as soon as possible. But when is the nearest possible time? Can we agree that it is at least before we get to New Year's Eve?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114235	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114238	It's not just up to me to decide. It is also up to the negotiators from the Left and from the Conservatives to decide. But it seems to me that it is realistic that we are through with the negotiations at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114256	I think that sounds very positive, and I can at least say that we in the Left will do everything in our power to achieve the aim of a new public law, so that we can have the necessary changes in place before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114308	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114311	That did not give rise to any comments on my part.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114316	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114320	Nothing new has been said and the positions have not moved, says the Minister. And it is really shameful, not that the positions have not moved, but that nothing new is said and that one is not willing to move to some extent. It is no more than a year ago that we voted in favour of B 169, the SF resolution, which instructed the government to convene negotiations. Yes, it has been convened, but negotiating means bowing down to each other, and what we have heard here today is a social democracy and it is a government which is not willing to move on to anything, and I have to say that the minister came a little more diplomatic about it than the rapporteur did when the rapporteur was given the floor. Because when the rapporteur was given the floor, it was quite clear that we are not going to change a dime: yes, yes, we are negotiating, but that does not change our point of view and our position. Then it may well be that it is promised that the negotiations will be concluded before New Year's, but the Minister knows very well that there will probably be a choice before then. So frankly, isn't the Minister's aim just to delay this so far that you get on the other side of a parliamentary election?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114431	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114435	I don't know when there's gonna be a choice. I know it must come within a year and a half. I am now quite sure that the current government will continue after that election as well as we have done so far. I wonder if this is going to be a task that will remain on my table for quite some time to come. Then I would like to say with regard to the fact that we have not moved, that it went to the debate today. It's been a ritual washing. Well, nothing new is being said. Where that happens, of course, are among the parties who are in the settlement • Left, Conservative and government • who in the negotiating room move the fence posts and find out what is going to happen. And I have always said that the Social Democrats and the government think that the public law we have has the right balance. But when we are in a conciliation where there are other parties who say that they do not think so, then we should listen and then we should negotiate and then we will find a solution to how the balance should be placed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114530	It's so nice to have a minister who's the world champion in answering around. Because what I was asking was quite honest, and the Minister has to answer honestly: isn't the purpose of the government to delay this so far that we come on the other side of an election?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114545	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114548	No, it certainly isn't. Because even after a choice, this will be a task that lies with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114557	The next brief remark is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114604	The Minister says that nothing new has come out today, and the Minister is, in a sense, right. But it is also very much the responsibility of the Minister that nothing new has emerged in the debate, because the Minister has not really answered questions about when we can expect a solution, how many meetings there have been and so on. In fact, the minister has not been particularly helpful. However, I believe that something new has happened anyway, because the Minister has changed the rhetoric today, including the text of the adoption. A year ago it was said that all the parties of the Folketing should be involved in this process. So is it not true that the new thing is that the Minister is now closing with the conciliation circle?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114653	No, I do not actually agree with that, because the proposal for adoption that we tabled last year explicitly says that these negotiations will be based on the conciliation circle, and that is the way it should be. Of course it has to be the case that when there is a settlement and that settlement is in place, and this is what this conciliation does.... none of the parties who are involved in it at this stage have terminated it.... of course, you have to negotiate with those parties first. Then I think that the fact that it has not been stated when meetings have been held and what has been negotiated is an insult. After all, I often negotiate with the Socialist People's Party, which I know would have been greatly deprived of the fact that we did the negotiations and had the talk that we have in the open. We simply need to be able to conduct these negotiations in a place where we have the opportunity to give ourselves and to try out views in a way that does not have to be confronted with it again, if it turns out to be a view that we could not pursue all the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114749	I still believe that I will insist that there is a quality difference between the debate we had a year ago and the debate we have now, and that the difference is that now we are very close to the conciliation circle, while the Minister was considerably more open in his speech from the Parliament's platform a year ago, when he said that this was to be found widely among the parties of the Folketing, that he would listen to the parties of the Folketing and take them into that debate. But I do not think we are going to go much further, so I would just like to ask whether the general clause is one of the things on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114830	We negotiated the Great Police Agreement together. We negotiated rape legislation together. We've negotiated the D.C.A. together. In all three debates there have been things on the table that we have talked about and that we have been able to talk about in a confidential room where solutions have been found precisely because it is a confidential space. Why? Yes, because then you can try out points of view, then you can think about things, then you can give in, then you can reflect, and that is exactly the same thing that happens in this debate. You cannot pull a debate into the open without risking the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114909	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114914	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for your comments. I guess those were almost record short comments to the rapporteurs, but thank you for them no matter what. The Minister says it is clear that there has been a desire among the conciliation parties that now you would like to look at this public law again. Social democracy does not seem to be needed, but there are some conciliation parties, and it must then be the Left and the Conservatives who advocate that we need to look at things again. My question is this: when is it clear to the Minister for Justice that there is a wish?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401114957	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115001	This is taken free from memory. I don't know when, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen is very explicit that something must happen here. But the Left has taken the view that something must be done here. The position of the Conservative People's Party lies a little further back, Mr President. Søren Pape Poulsen was out with a report that something was going to happen here. But I can't remember exactly when it's so bright to me. And it is not because it is not important, and it is not because I am not listening to what the Liberal Group, the Liberal Democrat and Reformist Group, says.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115040	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115053	I am, of course, aware that for a Minister of Justice there are a great many things to do, and we have been talking about some of them today. It is also clear, however, that it is at least my view that the desire to look at things again has come from the report by Jørgen Grønnegård Christensen's group of experts on covid-19, where it is clear that there are issues with regard to the public law. Then there comes this expressed wish from at least Conservatives and the Left and also other parties that we should now look at things again. And when did that report come? Well, there we are back in the winter of 2021. It was at the beginning of 2021, and now we are in April 2022. What I am really just asking here is: can we really tolerate such a long period of time and can the Minister live with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115145	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115148	But that is true, as Mr. Peter Skaarup says that, to say the least, there have been other matters on the agenda during that period. Covid-19 has filled a great deal, but it also has other major negotiations in other contexts. In fact, my experience is that both the Left and the Conservatives have a genuine desire to conduct negotiations so that the balance that lies in the public law is changed. That is what we are looking at at at the moment. It's hard. The last time, when the Public Service Act was negotiated, it took quite a long time. Moreover, the negotiations were based on the assumption that they could not be concluded. That is also why I say that I think it is realistic that by the end of this year we may have concluded the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115232	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister for Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115301	The debate is open. The Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115314	Thank you. We are in the midst of a biodiversity crisis. In Denmark, as in the rest of the world, we see species dying out at too high a rate and even more species threatened with extinction. That is why both the government and the green majority that came to after the last elections, nature and biodiversity have a very high priority, and we are focusing on the need for concrete action if we are to reverse the negative developments in this area and ensure prosperity for our nature and biodiversity. Action must be taken behind the words, and that is, of course, to mark action outside the floor in which we stand here, in other words, in our common nature. That is why I am also proud and pleased that the government, together with the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, has already decided and launched a historic boost of Danish nature and biodiversity, and as most people probably know, we have just selected ten natural national parks, so we are in total up to 15 natural national parks, where wild nature and biodiversity are at the forefront. It happened here quite a short time ago, and I am extremely proud of it. We have put funding behind it, and with the nature and biodiversity package a total of 888 million was set aside. kr., and that money will then both finance the National Parks, but also 75,000 hectares of untouched forest that we achieve that goal. At the same time, the Ministry of the Environment is reviewing legislation in the field of nature and biodiversity to see where it is that there are barriers to promoting nature and biodiversity in the legislation we have today, and here also includes an analysis of possible models for natural zones. The independent Biodiversity Council, which we have also decided and financed, has been set up, and at the beginning of 2022 it has launched an analysis of the basis for a biodiversity law, the result of which we expect to be here at the end of 2022. We have also launched many other initiatives, and I will not mention it all, but in relation to the sea we have decided on two new marine national parks; we have decided that the network of protected areas should be increased, more bird protection areas, new designation of protected and strictly protected areas; there will also be a debate on the marine plan; and then there will also be funding for nature recovery, particularly by stone reefs in several waters. We have also supported that the Danes can be more involved in providing space for the wilder nature. Together with the municipalities, I have launched a municipal competition to become Denmark's wildest municipality, and there it is precisely about giving more space and also giving room for innovation, so that everyone can bid in and we can all make a difference. Here all the municipalities of the country are involved, and that also says something about the huge support that is to make a difference to our nature. This is just some of the things that are going on. The reason I also mention this is, of course, to emphasise how important this is for the government and for the parties with which we have created the nature and biodiversity package: that we put action behind the words; that you can see the shift that has also been on top of the water. And that is why we have seen the objective of a more wilder nature and biodiversity in common with the proposers, but we do not agree on the way to it. We have launched this ambitious effort with concrete measures and also some of what everyone who is part of the Folketing knows is important, namely funding, and that is something that is lacking in the proposal that is to be dealt with today, that is to say, the big bill that comes with, for which we do not know the payment, and for which the proposers have not indicated the way. So the way of the government is that we are in full swing, we are together with a number of parties, but in relation to the concrete proposal I must reject it on behalf of the government. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115746	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115751	Thank you to the Minister and thank you for the 15 new national parks and the other good initiatives. There will then be a biodiversity law, I understand, and I would like to ask if there is a figure of how many percent untouched nature and protected nature we should have in that biodiversity law? Will it be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115814	What I said at the outset was that the Biodiversity Council is looking at a biodiversity law. And we'll have to watch that work when they're done with it. So what the government has delivered on, together with the parties that are part of nature and the biodiversity package, are precisely the targets that we set before the elections, i.e. also the promises we made to both Danish nature and Danes, namely about the 15 national parks and the 75,000 hectares of untouched forest.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115845	Thank you. In relation to the Biodiversity Council, I can hear that the Minister is enthusiastic about it, and I understand that. So, is it the Minister's intention that the Biodiversity Council should continue and not just shut down here after the first round?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115901	The receipt from the Biodiversity Council is, of course, that we now have some independent experts who help us to become wiser. I am now also looking down on the SF rapporteur, because some of this has been important for some of the parties that were also part of the Finance Act, and we are pleased about that. Now work has been started over the coming years, and then, as with all sorts of other political initiatives, we will have to take a position on it when that time expires. But after all, they have only just begun, so let us now look at the work they are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115932	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401115945	Thank you. I am here as a substitute for our environmental rapporteur, Kasper Roug, who unfortunately cannot be here. In the social democracy we share the desire of the Free Greens to reverse the decline in species and habitat types. That is why we have set aside 888 million. kr. to a package of nature and biodiversity. We have designated 15 national parks around Denmark, and we have to have additional untouched forests laid out, so we reach 75,000 ha of untouched forests in Denmark. We have set up the Biodiversity Council, which is an independent body of experts to advise the government and parties behind the agreement. We have launched a legislative review of legislation in the field of nature and biodiversity in order to identify barriers to measures to promote biodiversity. Together we have the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative led a historic increase in Danish nature and biodiversity. Against this background, on behalf of the Social Democrats, I shall reject the motion for a resolution on a law on biodiversity from the Free Greens. I would also like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they reject the proposal on the same grounds as the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401120050	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we would like to thank the rapporteur and welcome him. Jacob Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401120105	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Free Greens for putting nature and biodiversity into discussion and debate, because that is, of course, what is needed. I think we all share that view. The proposal here proposes that the government should submit a bill for a biodiversity law with national targets and sub-targets covering both natural areas, the quality of nature and the protection of species and habitats. It is no more than about a year and a half ago, I believe, that the Left itself tabled a resolution on precisely a biodiversity law with binding objectives. That is why we can understand the intention of what the Free Greens are putting forward. But regardless of the fact that there is one, and that is probably not the big surprise, it is also a question of proportionality, volume and funding, and not least of what we are really getting out of it as a society. We're really happy to have this discussion. We see that there are many opportunities to promote biodiversity and we must. After all, we have had the whole debate on national parks. Of course we can resume it here, I do not know if there is any purpose, but there are many initiatives. Some of them we are involved in and support, others we are more sceptical about. We ourselves also have a lot of thoughts when it comes to negotiating the marine plan and it is good that we have to negotiate the political plan and we see that there we have to be quite ambitious. I think there is a tendency for us sometimes to forget the maritime aspect when we talk about biodiversity, but there is also a whole lot going on below sea level. We would also like to see further work being done in the area of forests, both untouched forest, but also in general afforestation. We also see concepts relating to the large national parks, that is not to be confused with the national parks, because we think it is very important to promote biodiversity and nature, that we also have local solutions and involvement, because it is very different how to organise these things, depending on where you are in the country. As I said, we can see that there is a good and proper intention in the proposal, but with the comments I made before, among other things. I believe that it is one third of the country's area of land which must be allocated to nature and, of course, as the Minister also mentions, the lack of funding, that the Left cannot support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401120330	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401120334	Thank you to the rapporteur for the commitment to nature. I've seen that many times. So it's nice. Does the Left have a measure of how many percent of nature the Left wants on land and at sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401120352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401120353	In other words, in relation to the marine plan, we have seen the biodiversity strategy that the European Union has come up with, where, among other things, we have seen. 10% say. strictly protected areas. We have also noted that the Danish Nature Conservation Association and the fishermen together have gone out and said that they can promise. So that is certainly a concrete objective. On land, we are a little more uncertain about where it is that we should do it, how much it should be and what areas it is that we are talking about. Because there is a very, very big difference between what kind of land we are talking about. So I'm not going to stand here and say a certain percentage. However, I would very much like to take part in this, and that is also why we have just proposed that a professional piece of work be done on a biodiversity law with binding targets. But what the size of the binding targets should be, I would first like to leave it up to some professional experts to make some suggestions. For us, the percentage as such is not decisive; that is, of course, what we get out of it in terms of quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401120445	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401120446	That's right, of course. In other words, it does not bring any benefit to nature if we set out an area in which there is already no real nature. So I can easily follow it. Now the rapporteur also mentioned national parks, and we have many of them; they are large and we have had them for many years. But in a national park there are roads and there are agriculture and forestry and everything. So what does the rapporteur think about looking at national parks and making them more natural?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401120517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401120518	Well, I like the whole setup around the national parks, because you just have the involvement of the different players. This applies both to landowners, including agriculture, local residents' associations, green organisations and many of those who work and live and move in those areas. There you sit down and find that there may be areas, zones or other things where you say: here we can make a special effort. This is where we can go together and do some things. Perhaps you can go with the landowners and say: We lease part of your land so that we can make some special nature initiatives in the areas where it can make the best sense. Or maybe there's a part of what's maritime. I know primarily the national park called National Park Skjoldungernes Land around the Roskilde and Lejre area. It goes out in Roskilde Fjord, where you can also make some bets. That's how I think it, so you can think these things together from a local context.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401120607	Thank you. No further brief comments. We welcome the next rapporteur, Rasmus Nordqvist from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401120618	The alarm bells of the biodiversity crisis have been ringing for a long time, and fortunately action has also begun on this political issue. It is there in Denmark, it is there in Europe, and it is there in the world, as there is at present. running tracks within both the EU and the UN around how we act in relation to the biodiversity crisis that we see and which, unfortunately, is not only a Danish phenomenon, but a global problem. We are very pleased that we have managed to get very, very important initiatives launched on behalf of nature over the last few years here in Denmark. We are happy without standing with a butter laugh and saying: we do it. Because we are not doing enough yet, but we have taken some important steps in which we have actually changed the approach to nature policy in this country. Where it used to be such a bit something about how to create some nice areas and protect the individual species, we now have a different approach where we go to nature and look at how to create the good ecosystems, which also help to strengthen nature itself. For one thing, we in Denmark have a pressed nature on land; we also have a pressed nature on quality. Even those areas in Denmark where we have nature, the quality of nature is extremely low. The Minister mentioned many of the things we have done: untouched forests, national parks and, above all, two very important elements, which are respectively the legal review which looks at what the legislation looks like today in relation to nature protection, and the Biodiversity Council, which is, of course, a counterpart to the Climate Council, which provides professional advice to the government and the Folketing. This is all something we really appreciate. SF has also been advocating for many years that we should have a biodiversity law, but what is important to us when we talk about biodiversity law is, of course, that it is properly based also on the international agreements that are in the process of being made and thus have not yet been made. Among other things: we can see that one of the challenges is protection areas, i.e. how large areas need to be protected. When I was down to meetings with the Commission in the autumn in connection with the biodiversity package, the clear message was that we are not really so concerned about whether we can achieve 30 per cent protection at EU level. across countries and a special protection of 10% in the case of countries. But the ocean is really, really challenged. There has been a lot of discussion at home. Can we even get up on a 10-30 model on land? We think you can do that. But is it enough at sea to look across EU countries? And all these things have to be taken into account when you look at how to tighten up a law, just as the Climate Act is based on UN agreements. So we cannot support the proposal that we are debating today, even though we are fighting so hard to continue with the good work that has been started now on the new direction set for nature and biodiversity policy in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401120950	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it is Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401120954	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for defending the interests of nature. We cannot then agree entirely on how ambitious they should be. The rapporteur says that SF wants a biodiversity law, but because of your and that it is not right now. But what is the percentage in SF's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401121019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401121020	As I said very clearly, it is important for us that it is, of course, based on the UN agreements that are coming, just as the Climate Act is based on the great international climate agreement from Paris. Among other things: I would just like to say that on top of the meetings I have had with both the Commission and Parliament and so on. in the EU system, I can be concerned about whether it is good enough when we see a European sea area that is even more pressured and how much, very little, is protected. And we are, of course, one of those countries with a great deal of coastline and sea in the European Union, and then it has to look different. We think that a biodiversity law should be based on the international agreements that are coming right now and that are, of course, helping to push us in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401121115	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401121117	I just don't feel like I got an answer. But there were some other answers. In relation to the Biodiversity Council, which the rapporteur wants to compare with the Climate Council, does the rapporteur think that the Biodiversity Council that we have now set up should continue in the years ahead and not just be something that closes down here in connection with the projects that are under way here and now, so that we have a Biodiversity Council that can evaluate every year how things are going with nature, both on land and at sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401121150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401121151	When we succeeded in setting up a Biodiversity Council, it was in the context of a financial law with funding in the years ahead, just as we do with other things, such as the Climate Council, which we have managed to strengthen funding for. It is clear that we must look at it. Now they have great freedom to take things up themselves and assess and analyse and provide advice and analyses for us. It may well be that, just as we have had a year wheel made in the Climate Act, deciding how to return with assessments of the government's work, it is the same mechanism that we need to get into a biodiversity law when it comes. Because there is a need for the advice that such advice can give us. We can see how valuable it is that the Climate Council is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401121239	Thank you. Then there is a question from Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401121242	Thank you. That was to the part about the maritime and maritime plans that the rapporteur also mentioned. I see it as such that we have to go up to 10%. as a strictly protected area, which the EU biodiversity strategy also envisages. And there I understand the government is saying that no, that's enough with those about. 4% because the EU's strategy says it is completely at EU level and not at country level. I don't think that's good enough. Now I can almost get the answer, that's so fine. I just want to hear about what the SF rapporteur said before, i.e. whether he agrees with the position of the Left, namely that we have to go up to 10%. Then I could almost hear that the rapporteur said at least, but let us just start with the 10%. at the Danish level, i.e. within the Danish sea area, just as the fishermen together with DN have already pointed out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401121329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401121330	I do not think there can be many in this Chamber who can be in doubt that the SF believes that the government's marine plan is deeply unambitious and does not live up to what it should be. We have said this repeatedly. When I use the word "at least" it's actually important in relation to these levels of protection. After all, we cannot refer to the European Union because it is across the European Union that should be 10%. strictly protected, 30%. protected on land. And we don't live up to it. And then we say we only have to live up to it when it's at sea. There we have to have a burden-sharing discussion within the European Union about how far we should go. However, a start has to be made on the marine plan, through which we have fortunately also been forced into the budget law. It's called 10/30 at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401121417	There are no more brief comments. We would like to thank the rapporteur and welcome him. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401121428	Thank you. The biodiversity crisis is sometimes referred to as the sixth mass extinction. In fact, it has never been worse for biodiversity, and a great many species are under threat. Nature is in a huge crisis and it is now that we must act politically. Therefore, the Enhedslisten, together with the government and the remaining support parties, got the nature and biodiversity package in place and got a large part of it implemented here last week, where we had 15 national parks placed. So far, so good. Are we then in Denmark a pioneering country? No, actually, we're not. As is also mentioned in the motion for a resolution, these are poor records that we keep in relation to Denmark. In fact, we are scratching the bottom in terms of nature conservation in the European Union. We do, mainly because we make use of almost every square metre of our country. So, in order not to leave our land poorer for future generations, we must act on the biodiversity crisis. If it stands for Enhedslisten, the 15 national parks are just the first step. Unfortunately, the biodiversity crisis is not as clear as for example. the climate crisis. It is also called the silent killer. We do not see the great protests, the great movement that we do when it comes to climate. We're gonna have to change that. A biodiversity law can contribute to this. There's actually help coming out of the natural crisis. That is why, in the Enhedslisten, we of course also believe that we should have a biodiversity law. We've been thinking that for a long time. Fortunately, the solutions to the natural crisis are easier than those of the climate crisis. The solutions are straight to the right leg, and they're pretty simple. They're called: space. And we in Enhedslisten would like to give that to nature, that is space. Of course, we need a biodiversity law in Denmark which, of course, means that we meet international obligations and that we are actually making tougher demands on ourselves at home. In addition, in the last financial law, we have been given a Biodiversity Council and, as was asked earlier, it is our view that the Biodiversity Council should be made permanent. It is also in the proposal of the proposer. They must be able to do what the Climate Council does in the climate area: advise the government and keep the Folketing in the ears in order to meet the objectives that already exist and that we do not meet. They can make solid professional recommendations and at the same time ensure that we also provide solutions to the natural and climate crisis, which, unfortunately, can sometimes come against each other a little. Overall, it is the case that we support the intentions of the proposal put forward by the Free Greens. We would also like to thank you for including, at least in the comments, parts of the Enhedslisten nature plan. Thank you. You guys can do that. However, we may also have to emphasise that when it is the case that we are talking about biodiversity, it is not enough that we have legislation in which it is the case that we consider For Enhedslisten it is crucial that it becomes an anchored part of what we are doing. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. Talking about the future marine plan, we should not only talk about co-thinking We should do it, we should think about it into a unified ecosystem for the marine areas we are looking at, so that it becomes professionally anchored. As I said, we support the intentions, but, as all parties have said, this is a proposal which is unfunded. There aren't even any hints of what the means are to make this happen. It is true that if you take large areas out of production, what we support, then you must expect it to cost a considerable amount. I think that this should be included in the proposal, so that there is also a proposal for how funding is to be provided. So this is an unfunded proposal, and that is why we cannot vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401121945	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401121949	Thank you, and thank the rapporteur for his support for the intentions. After all, funding is a funny thing, and it is something that is very often mentioned in here. Sometimes it's not something you talk about very much. If, for example, you're gonna have to... I'm gonna find 18 billion. kr. For weapons, you can do it by borrowing yourself out or whatever you do. But right here, it's important. Could we not also reduce biodiversity and climate, so that we can sort out two things at once with about the same budget? That was my first question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122027	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122028	Whether you can do it on the same budget, I'm not sure I'm holding. At least that's something I want you to count on. For the fact that just knocking out your arms and then saying that it doesn't cost anything more to think about it, and then we can do it with the same budget, I think it sounds a little financially solved. Then I would like to say about the 18 billion. I fully agree with the rapporteurs that it is quite insane that 18 billion can be found. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122105	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122107	Can it be imagined that by working on this proposal that we are making, we can find something in the committee's negotiating work so that we can get to work on a biodiversity law? Because of course we agree that the percentages do not in themselves, and that is also why we need to have a biodiversity council permanently, which can help to focus on what we understand by the good nature. Then I just have an additional question with regard to our EU support, namely whether we could not find a great deal of money in terms of taking agricultural land for nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122149	To the end, I would like to say that I will not rule that out. But right now it is not something we can negotiate here. As to whether or not this can be thought out or become part of the future in relation to a biodiversity law, I would say that yes, one can imagine that. And, as has already been mentioned, it is the case that we have that Biodiversity Council which is actually working to come up with a draft or a proposal for such a biodiversity law. So in this way it can be said that this proposal, together with the Biodiversity Council, is in the process of getting legislation of this kind. So I think you can see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122231	There are no more brief comments. Sorry, there was just a request for a brief comment at the last second. Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122236	Yeah, I couldn't help myself. I'm sorry I was a little late for the President. But it was because of Mr. Bruno Jerup's remark about the insaneness of finding the 18 billion. kr. to the defense. May I understand that the Enhedslisten was rather prepared to spend the same 18 billion. kr. to promote biodiversity? Is that how I'm supposed to understand the answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122255-2	If that's the way the opportunity offered itself, I think we could do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122303	Sir. Jacob Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122304	So just to get it confirmed: Enhedslisten will spend 18 billion. kr. on biodiversity instead of spending 18 billion. kr. On our defense? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122317	We do not have a concrete plan to spend 18 billion. DKK, neither on defence nor on biodiversity. So the question is a bit of a lead, you might say, on the part of the rapporteur. So I just want to say that we want to spend money on biodiversity. Whether that's exactly the 18 billion. I don't know. That figure is only mentioned because it happens to coincide with the 18 billion. kr., which flourished for that military armament, which we are apparently going to have in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122347	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and welcome Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122356	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the proposers for focusing on nature and biodiversity. As a Conservative, it is not at all foreign to work with nature objectives, so although we do not share all the objectives we do not so much praise for formulating proposals on this. We'd like to negotiate that. On the other hand, the authors of the motion for a resolution should not be praised for resubmitting almost exactly the same motion for a resolution that we also dealt with on 10 November 2020, even this time without any provision for funding. For that reason alone, Conservatives cannot subscribe to anything other than many of the good ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122434	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we welcome him. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122445	Thank you for that and also thank you for the proposal here. When I just read it through, I could not help smiling a little, because when you read the first few lines, it also says that a biodiversity law must be put forward by 2023 at the latest following an inclusive consultation process. It is always good to write it, because the government sometimes has it with that when it comes to introducing something, it is not very engaging with those who have to work with it. So thank you for writing it in, but that is not what the proposal is about. This is about a biodiversity law. We can then discuss whether it is we who have to do it right here and in the way that is in the proposal. I do not really think so, but I would still like us to use the proposal to have a debate. For who is it that also has quite large areas and also smaller areas around it? It is indeed the municipalities, which is why it was possible to see whether, in the context of the work of the committee, the Minister might think that it was a good idea that the municipalities might be called upon to set some biodiversity targets across the board. The municipalities actually have the opportunity to do a lot of things around, and then you would also come around the whole country. I know it myself. I'm so lucky I have a double mandate, and I'm really happy about that. I come from Guldborgsund Municipality. There we have actually worked on creating a biodiversity plan and have got something really good out of it and indeed also for small money and also for exactly what was needed. What we needed in our municipality we found out when we talked to some biologists was among other things. Something like car parks for butterflies. What were some light-open areas that were needed in our area? And it was not really much money that needed to be done, and it could actually be solved without anyone coming and saying that it should be by law. That is why I think we should use this opportunity to see, in connection with the work of the committee, whether a majority could not be achieved, which would make the Minister send out a letter to the municipalities quite calmly that there is plenty of inspiration to be gained to get a better biodiversity out of the individual places, but which is also targeted at the areas that you have. So we cannot vote in favour of the proposal here, but we think that we should do everything we can to get something more biodiversity, and that could be done, among other things. do at local authority level. I also believe that, in the way of volunteering, we can go a very long way. So thank you for the suggestion. We cannot vote in favour, but we hope that we can use it as a lever to move forward a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122710	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122712	Thank you to the rapporteur, also for making some concrete proposals that go in the right direction. I think it would be very interesting to look at a biodiversity law municipal, because involving citizens also means that there will be a greater understanding of nature. So I would like to welcome that. Of course I would rather we had it at national level, but I think that is a good step, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122744	It is sometimes the case that when we have some challenges, we always have to solve them inside Christiansborg, but we actually have some other democracy forums around us. We also have the regions which actually have some land, and then we have the municipalities. If we could figure out how to do something together and get something sensible out of it, that would be great.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122801	If there is a follow-up brief remark. No. We thank the rapporteur. I do not see New Citizens' rapporteur, so the next rapporteur is Ole Birk Olesen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401122814	There is something fundamentally sad about animals and plants dying out. I do not think that the last aurochs in Europe really cared much about it being the last one, but for us people it is deeply sad, especially when we are responsible for it. The fact that Earth's species wealth, which we can go and enjoy and study and be with on this planet, is getting smaller, and that it's our fault, is sad for us humans. It is therefore a dignified task to ensure that it is stopped, and also that we in Denmark contribute to the cessation of it, and we in Denmark contribute to achieving a greater species wealth than we have today. The objective can be achieved by reserving areas where nature is the first priority, instead of everything else being the first priority. Unfortunately, we have an unfortunate debate at the moment about the designation of national parks, where the fact that you want to make a very, very small part of Denmark's area for areas where nature is the first priority meets opposition from all sorts of groups who believe that on the small areas too there are other issues that need to be given priority. It's too bad there are parties singing in that choir. The fact that mountain bikers, horse riders and sled dogs can be in the rest of Denmark is obviously not enough. The fact that nature may make it difficult to ride with horses or ride with sledgedogs in less than 1%. of Denmark's area, so there are parties in this Parliament that think that now it goes too far with nature. I think that's a real shame. With regard to the proposal here, we can support the need for a biodiversity law, and we welcome the fact that the government has set work in motion and asked the Biodiversity Council, which has been set up, to provide input on how a biodiversity law could have been drafted. Unfortunately, we cannot vote in favour of this motion for a resolution because it contains not only the creation of a biodiversity law, which we support, but also because the resolution says that more than one fifth of Denmark's area must be withdrawn from all production. We think this is a very drastic step and also a very expensive step and probably not a necessary step. The kind of nature that may be in Denmark would probably be able to unfold at 5 or 10 per cent. of Denmark's area, without the need for us to have 22 per cent. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that this proposal is designed to stop all production and, in this way, to make the world's food crisis even worse. So we can't back the fact that it has to be so high a percentage. We can do a lot here and now. The Danish Nature Agency has almost 5%. of Denmark's area, which is state forest and adjacent light open areas, and tomorrow we would be able to decide that the entire area available to the Danish Nature Agency should be untouched nature if it is valuable natural areas, land with high natural value and with little commercial value. Then it could immediately be designated as natural areas. If, on the other hand, there are areas of low natural value and high commercial value, they could be sold to private individuals and the money could be used to buy up other land which has a natural value and make it untouched nature. We should go that way, rather today than tomorrow, and I do not understand why we have not had a majority in this Parliament that has done so a long time ago. In this way we could immediately reach that 5%. that Denmark's area became untouched nature. That's a good first target. Then we're gonna have a talk about whether we can make it any further. Could we, for example, do this? 10 per cent.? I think it is an opportunity that we could reach 10%. Over a long period of time, but here and now we can very quickly reach 5 per cent. and not just below the 1% which is the government's ambition with the current national park designations. So we support a biodiversity law, but we do not support the Free Greens' proposal that we should have untouched nature for over 20%. of Denmark's area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123323	There are a few brief comments. It's only from Mr. Knox's office. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123327	Thank you to the rapporteur. I just want to zoom in on the maritime area, where the European Union has, of course, put forward a biodiversity strategy that says that at EU level you must have 10%. strictly protected marine area. The government is proposing, as I understand it, that in Denmark it will be approx. 4%, which the government considers to be enough. How does the Liberal Alliance view this? Looking at what the Left does, we also have to have 10%. In other words, is it not up to other EU countries to meet the overall objective that is strictly protected sea areas, that is to say on Danish land?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123404	I think that 10%. protected sea area sounds like a very good objective. I also think that this sounds like a very good objective on land. Does the Left agree with me that we can raise it to 5% rather quickly? by including all areas of the Danish Nature Agency on land and in the long term may have a target of 10%. On land?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123433	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123434	Now the relationship with questions is the other way around, but it is good that we are discussing it. I admit that if you choose to take all the land of the state and withdraw it, it could easily get up there. I think it just has some consequences, among other things. in relation to wood production. We also want to use wood in our buildings, and we also want to use wood for other purposes. So there are some complications if you say it's from one day to the next. So if you have to get to that level, you have to have a somewhat longer phase-in period. But I'm glad that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen on the maritime part, which my question raised, confirms that it is LA involved in negotiating a marine plan so that we can push the government to more than the poor ones I was just about to say 4 per cent, which is what the government is up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123517	There seems to be no disagreement there. However, I would just like to remind you that we have the floor for a brief comment. There are no rules about asking a question. Nor is there any rule that you should not ask a question in your answer. There is a misunderstanding here in the Folketing that questions belong to a particular place and not somewhere else. It's not really like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123536	There are several requests for comments. There's a request for someone from Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123540	Thank you, and thank you for your support, you might say, too far along the way it sounds like we agree. But there is something about the percentage, and I would just like to say that I think it is quite obvious to look at the land of the state. So I would like to take part in the committee's work. So I do not know whether the rapporteur also thinks that there could be other areas that could be looked at, i.e. low-level soils and land that are not actually very productive in terms of farming on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123614	Yes, certainly, and it is in our desire to look at state land, and then there are some of them that have a high commercial value, but a small natural value. You have to sell them off, and you get more for them. hectares other than what is needed to buy up other areas with a small commercial value, but with a high natural value. This means that if you sell 1 ha of state forest with a good commercial value, you can buy more than 1 ha of natural land where you can make untouched nature. So they're 5%. is a minimum. This is going to be more than 5%. As I said, I think we should look at whether we can reach 10%. in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123658	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123659	Yes, and it would like to be higher, but that is how we have different starting points. The rapporteur from the Left now mentions wood production. Would the rapporteur not also agree with me that wood production must, of course, continue? For the more trees we have, the more houses we can build from wood, but that wood production can be moved somewhere else, for example. to another soil which is actually suitable for wood production, but perhaps less suitable for the agriculture that you have on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123732	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123733	Those forest areas which have a high commercial value, but a low natural value, should not be transferred to unspoiled forest. They must be sold, and then they must continue to be operated as forest production areas by private individuals, and then the state must use the money to buy up land that can be laid aside for nature. But the thing about just saying a big number, for example. 33 per cent. must be protected by nature and two thirds of the 33 per cent. We must not be a production at all, is really a free round. And the Greens have not made any effort at all to find out what it will cost, nor have they made any effort to find out what it will mean for world food production, that Denmark will stop producing so much food.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123821	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Mona Juul, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123824	Thank you. I just grabbed the ball because the rapporteur said that this is not the question answer, but it is a comment, and I have a comment to make on the very fine speech, namely that it is always a pleasure to hear Ole Birk Olesen on the platform and talk about nature and biodiversity, and I would like to sign for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123842	Thank you, Mrs Juul, and it is always a pleasure with such a bright and optimistic and also commending person as Mrs Juul is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123852	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And so it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Susanne Zimmer, Free Greens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401123914	Thank you for the floor. It is good to hear that all parties are concerned that we need to have more nature and that we need to take better care of it. On the other hand, there are not so many who support this proposal or to put it bluntly: no one is backing it in its real form. But then there are some other proposals that may be interesting to look at. I think it is really nice that we have got national parks and that we have more untouched forests, but that is just not enough because nature is in decline and the key word is space, so it is not enough with declarations of intent anymore. If we are also to call ourselves a pioneering country in terms of biodiversity, we have to do something, and what we can see is that, for example, we have to do something. In the scenario of a marine plan, the target is 4%. Untouched sea, and negotiations will be in the Ministry of Business. So it shows, like, that we need to have some concrete objectives. That is why they must also be scientifically based, so that we find the areas that are actually most suitable for nature conservation. This applies on land, but it also applies at sea, so we need some analyses showing where it is that there is the most biodiversity that we have to look after and where we have the opportunity to find new areas that can be good areas in terms of biodiversity and nature conservation. After all, in their biodiversity strategy for 2030, the European Commission has proposed that we should have 30%. protected nature and 10%. strictly protected nature again both on land and at sea. That is where I and the Greens will be concerned when we hear the Minister's statement that it is fine, but that it does not have to be in Denmark. This means, of course, that we require other countries to have a much higher percentage and that we ourselves, like those who do not want to do so, do not want to do so. So we have it can also be important when we are in such a situation as we are in now, when there is a shortage of food, or at least it will be in the world that we have some figures that show that we can't just drop the low bottoms, because they count with them. In an ideal world they could count in our goals, and then we couldn't just start plowing them up. It is important that we see climate and biodiversity in the context, because in the vast majority of situations we will be able to address both climate and biodiversity. And we need to work against We have a climate law that we pride ourselves on. When we started talking about a climate law, it was something that was considered completely impossible. Then it became difficult and now, in some form or another, it is realistic that if we make the right priorities, we will achieve it. In relation to the negotiations in the UN on a global biodiversity agreement, the Minister has been quoted as saying that she hopes that the agreement for nature can end up as the Paris Convention of Nature. In the Free Greens, we hope that a biodiversity law can end up as the Climate Act has ended. We must do what we need to do to help our nature, and it is disrespectful if we do not take the EU biodiversity strategy to heart with respect for the other countries, which we then impose a greater burden, but above all disrespectful in relation to nature. We need concrete targets, we need concrete sub-targets and we need a Biodiversity Council which has a lasting status and which can provide an annual evaluation of how we are actually doing with our nature. I would also like to refer to the comments accompanying the proposal and recommend it to the kind treatment of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401124342	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401124347	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I just have a few questions with regard to just the remarks. There is one comment in which it is written that, by 2025 at the latest, a requirement must be included in the National Park Act that existing and new national parks must be able to meet the requirements of IUCN category II within five years. It cuts my eyes a little, because in some of the areas that have been identified and will be identified, there is a huge nature recovery work that has not been completed in five years. If you take a plantation area and are about to restore natural ecosystems, it will take longer than five years, because ecosystems do not just occur overnight. So does the rapporteur also agree that it is important that the entire nature recovery component, which the EU has unfortunately pushed, is part of a possible future biodiversity law?
ParlaMint-DK_20220401124443	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401124444	In fact, I believe that the rapporteur is referring to national parks where national parks are mentioned. But no matter what, it's a big deal to change nature, so it stays under nature's conditions. And now I see that the rapporteur is signalling that he is referring to natural parks. Anyway, it's a big project, and it may not be 2025, but it's really important that there's a plan for how to get there. It can then be said that it is a little complicated by the fact that natural parks have different foundations, depending on where they are located. That's what I think makes sense. But it is true that in the form they now have, it may well be that it cannot be reached by 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401124532	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401124533	When I point to them, it is precisely because one of the important things which, unfortunately, has now been postponed by the Commission is nature recovery. And we're not going anywhere if we think it's just about saying stop a lot of places for e.g. logging, etc., because there's a nature recovery that's absolutely necessary. Actually, that's just what I wanted to point out. It says about the national parks here that within five years you have to live up to these categories. You can't do that everywhere, because an ecosystem takes time. And our natural values in Denmark are so low that it requires an effort that also goes over a longer period than 5 years. It may take 10, 15, and 20 years to recreate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401124613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401124614	Now I am not a biologist or a professional in this area, but I would say that there will be some places where you can do it much faster. I do not think it should be the case that we should wait 10, 15, 20 years. We need to cut down some non-resident trees, we need to close some drains and we need to set up some fences, and we have come a long way. Then, of course, there will be more.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401124639	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401124707	The debate is open. I welcome the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401124714	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here is about soil pollution, and it is also an area which is very close to my heart. This is an issue on which we, the Green majority, after the last elections in general, have acted. Already in the understanding paper we wrote that we would handle and clean up the large generation pollutions. Specifically, we took up the efforts of last year's Finance Act, which set aside a total of 630 million. kr. over five years to enable the regions to start cleaning up the generational pollution that many of us have been dealing with for many years, but which has not been done enough. What has the government done in relation to PFOS? Yes, we have all followed that in relation to the serious and unhappy case of Korsør, which has brought to our attention the fact that PFOS pollution can constitute both a major environmental and health problem. The case has also made it clear that there has been a lack of both knowledge and overview in this area. Interdisciplinary coordination groups have been set up, including a group of health professionals and also a task force. The Danish Environmental Protection Agency sits at the bottom of the table and ensures coordination between the authorities involved. Initiatives have also been launched to identify the extent of contamination with PFOS and locate the worst sources of soil contamination with this type of substance. In 2021, municipalities and regions have gathered an overview of 206 fire drill sites, and they identify where there could be other similar cases as the one in Korsør with an immediate health risk. At the same time, municipalities are examining whether a polluter can be held liable on individual cases, and the regions identify and investigate possible PFOS soil pollution during public action. In the Finance Act for this year, together with the parties to the agreements, we have set aside funds to test the prevention and remediation technologies that can be used to clean up these complicated pollutions. The government, together with the governments of the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and Germany, has also prepared a proposal to limit all PFOS substances that are not socially critical in all applications in the EU. Now to the proposal here. As Minister for the Environment, I would like to say that it is basically sympathetic when you want to add extra funds to the environment, but that requires, on the one hand, that you have a basis on which to do so and, on the other hand, that funding has been found. You could say that this proposal does not meet any of the two parts. The motivation for the proposal only mentions PFOS efforts, but we are not at all the place where we have the overview I mentioned before, of the spread of PFOS pollution, and not least of what prevention and remediation measures are needed to put an economy on. Danish Regions probably currently have an overview of fire drill sites and also a cautious estimate of the number of other sites where PFOS has been used in industrial production, but there is no overview of the pollution situation in all these locations or of what it costs to clean up. That is why there is no basis for pointing out the amount that the proposers are making here, and that is also quite clear in the soil pollution law, and I think that is also politically correct, namely that the polluter should pay where there is a polluter who can be held responsible. That is exactly what is currently being studied. Then I would also like to take this opportunity to point out that there are other major and current tasks in the field of soil pollution. In 2023, on the basis of an agreement with the regions and the state, we will have to discuss whether additional funds should be allocated to the soil pollution area to deal with the risk that soil pollution could pose in relation to surface water. And it is a bottom-up task to meet the water framework directive's demand for good status. Since 2014, the regions have identified the mapped soil pollution that could pose a threat to surface water, and we also have an agreement with the contracting parties behind the 2021 Finance Act that in 2023 we will have to take stock of the efforts and discuss the planning of the handling of other generational pollutions. In this context, it would be natural to discuss whether there is anything in the work that has been so far that can be done more effectively, whether the priorities are sensible. It makes sense for us to look together at what has been achieved and what is to happen in the future. After all, we are talking about a task which has been going on for almost 40 years, and where the regions receive a flat-rate allocation of some 430 million per year. kr., and that is in addition to the funds allocated to the generational pollutions. So on the second part, which I also mentioned, namely funding, because the Left has not indicated where the money is to be found, and I would also like to point out that the Left did not give priority to a general boost to the regions, which is being proposed here when they were themselves in government. On the contrary, the regions should be completely abolished. So the government does not support the resolution here. Together with the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, through the clean-up of the generational pollution that we have addressed, we have shown that we take soil pollution very seriously. This is new, and it is great that we have addressed the largest associations in Danish history. We have also acted on top of the PFOS pollutions that we have seen in order to move forward with, among other things. support for new technologies to deal with pollution as well. It is clear that this work is continuing, in close cooperation with regions and other authorities. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401125347	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401125350	Now I did not expect the government to support a motion for a resolution from the opposition either, because it rarely happens unless there is a majority, and it will then be seen whether there is a majority. I just wanted to say something about the fact that no funding has been found. It is, of course, funded by our financial law, because, just as the government gives priority to its financial law, we have, of course, also prioritised this on ours. We also note that the government did not choose to increase the funding for 2022 for this purpose, nor did the government agreement concluded with Danske Regions last summer, which is the framework for the region's economy, including the effort to clean up land, allocate additional funds for this purpose. So I just want to say that before you start decorating yourself with too many borrowed feathers and golden chains. The Danish Regions themselves have pointed out that it is 100 million. kr. extra a year that is needed to get to, if not in the end, but at least a good deal further with the known soil pollutions that we already know about now, and that is in the vicinity of 30,000-35,000, depending on when it was made up. So I would just like to ask whether the Minister for the Environment will work for internal government pressure when making a Finance Act for 2023, i.e. whether this objective will be given higher priority, or, perhaps even better, that the economic agreements to be made this summer with Danske Regions will already give priority to that objective, not necessarily in relation to PFOS, but in relation to the known soil pollutions that we already know are out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401125517	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401125518	Thank you. To this point, the government should not be able to support a motion for a resolution by the opposition, I would say that I think it is a good idea to do so, but it requires agreement on the content, and that is where the waters at least separate here. In any case, I think it is easy just to say that it is financed when you do not point out where the funding comes from. In the past, we had a little discussion about what a brief remark might contain, and I now understand that it may also contain a question from the platform, so I shall take that opportunity immediately. I just haven't heard where it's the Left pointing that funding must come from. What, then, is the priority to be given away, where is the priority to be given to something else? The simple thing is to say that this is our priority. But we have just not seen any concrete funding from the Left, so I certainly owe the Left an answer to that. The fact that the regions want more money for a major task, I think, is quite natural and, as I said, we are now looking into what this task is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401125621	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401125622	It should not sound cynical, but the regions can in principle be indifferent to the fact that they have just been given a job. They just point out that there is a task here, and it will then perhaps take over 50 years before you get close to it, and that is why they ask if you could give it a slightly higher priority if you actually think it is an important task. We believe it is, and that is why we are trying to push for it, both in relation to the generational pollution, but also in relation to all the other pollutions that we already know thousands of people. It's people who live around here who are also affected by this, not to say our nature and our groundwater. So, in relation to our funding, I should just like to refer to the financial legislative proposal that we made, in which we do not agree with spending all the funds that the government spends on this and that, because that is one of our priorities, among other things, from the point of view of courage. to be able to prioritize this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401125707	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401125709	I think it is extremely interesting if the Left has made their draft budget for 2023, and we would really like to see that. Where is that funding? I have not heard the Left point to a single place where it is said that the money should come from here. When we look at what the Liberals themselves did when they were in government, we did not give priority to that promise in relation to the regions. Now I know my good colleague from the Left well enough to know that he is also sitting in Danske Regions himself and therefore probably has a greater love than so many others for the regions in relation to his own party, but there was, on the contrary, the proposal that the regions should be completely abolished. We think they are doing a very good job.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401125748	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401125752	I wasn't really going to have to say much, but I do so little anyway. I mean, we're talking about 100 million. kr. This government spends billions without blinking its eyes. This government is making deals to spend 18 billion dollars. kr. you haven't found at all. We're talking about 100 million here. kr. to clean up after the sins of the past • generational pollutions that exist out there and pollute our environment. It is a danger to humans, animals and nature. And then we're gonna be down here in the Assembly Hall discussing about 100 million. kr. No, the government has to say: this is not what we want to do. This is purely a matter of priority. If the government wanted to do this, you could also find the 100 million. kr. It's not a problem. We just got the accounts for 2021 and there were 58.7 billion. kr in profits from the state accounts... you could probably find this 100 million. kr., if you would. The Minister has to say: we are not giving this priority at this stage. Then it may be that you want to do it in a financial law, and that is fair enough. I hope that this can be done, and I certainly hope that, in the context of the work of the committee, we can try to see whether we cannot have a majority which requires the government to find this money in the context of a financial law. Of course we can find 100 million. kr. To clean up the mess.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401125902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401125903	I can at any rate say that the Danish People's Party was unable to find the 100 million. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. Well, that's not where that grant changed. That is why it is perhaps a free round to say that it is so easy and that the government can just snap its fingers, and then you will find 100 million. kr. I believe that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, who is even the rapporteur on finance law himself, knows very well that this is a process that is under way, and we are not now negotiating the Finance Act with this motion for a resolution. But we have given priority to soil pollution. We have just set aside 630 million. kr. In addition to the tasks undertaken by the regions on an annual basis, generational pollution is also a priority. So we are in full swing, including with the economic agreement, to look more into the whole question of surface water. So we are deeply concerned about this task... I don't think you could see exactly the same priority with the previous majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401130003	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401130004	No, we put a 1⁄2 billion. kr. to clean up generational pollution. And it's kind of just really important. The reason why 100 million is being asked. kr. Here it's always a question of who can make the biggest figures, because it's the capacity that's out there. You can actually find the 100 million. kr. The knowhow is here, and we know where the pollution is. In fact, the regions have done this review of all the sites. So we could find this money, and we could get started faster. That's why this is interesting. In fact, it is not so much about the money, but that there is an opportunity to do so. I am well aware that the Minister cannot stand here today to say that she can now say yes to finding this 100 million. kr., but the Minister could say that she will fight to find this money in the forthcoming Finance Act of 2023.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401130048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401130054	Now I remember the proposal of the blue bloc in relation to the half-billion that is being referred to here. After all, it was a proposal that the regions should be abolished, and it would spell 500 million. kr. And none of us believed in that. How is that supposed to mean getting that money for this task, by the way, a task that I think the regions are doing very well? So it is still the policy of the Danish People's Party to abolish the Danish regions, or how else will you get the money that the Danish People's Party rapporteur says is so easy to find? We believe that this is an important task and we have given priority to it. This was not the case in the last government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401130132	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401130145	I am here as a substitute for our rapporteur, Kasper Roug, who unfortunately cannot be here. We should be able to drink the water from the tap safely, we should be able to eat food from Danish agriculture safely, and we should not worry about getting sick because of pollution. That is exactly what the government has been working for since 2019. With the motion for a resolution, the Left will require the government to add 100 million. kr. annual to the regions for the work on soil pollution. We agree with the Left that the case of PFOS pollution is very serious and we have taken it very seriously. The authorities are in the process of examining the extent of soil pollution, where municipalities, regions, defence and the Danish Environmental Protection Agency are working together. That work has not yet been completed. It is therefore essential to remind the Left that we have a 'polluter pays' principle, which I assume the Left also continues to support. When the work has not yet been completed, it is also a post office too early to require the government to find funds for the regions before there is responsibility in the cases and before you know exactly what the task is for the regions to land. The PFOS pollution cases are unhappy, they have shown that we do not currently have the necessary knowledge or overview of the area. A coordination group has been set up across authorities and experts with the Danish Environmental Protection Agency at the end. We have set aside 3 million. kr. together with the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Christian Democrats for testing technologies that can clean up PFOS pollutions; we have set this aside in the Finance Act, where the initiative is funded in contrast to the proposal that the Left is now putting forward. Similarly, on behalf of Denmark and in cooperation with several EU countries, the Minister for the Environment is working to limit the use of all PFAS links that are not critical of society in the EU. It is not only the PFAS pollution that is problematic. We have taken the lead in doing something about soil pollution at all. In the 2021 Finance Act, we set aside funds for soil pollution, where together with Radical Left, SF, Enhedslisten and the Alternative, we set aside 630 million. kr. to clean up some of the biggest pollutions in Denmark. We are not sitting on our hands in this matter. On behalf of the Social Democrats, however, I would like to reject the motion for a resolution because it is too early to give additional funds to the regions when no responsibility has yet been placed and, secondly, when it is an unfunded proposal which bypasses the Finance Act and the Economic Agreements, where we otherwise deal with financing, among other things. The soil cleanup work. In addition, I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they reject the proposal on the same grounds as the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401130409	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401130418	I fully agree that the rapporteur is a substitute, so I will not go down in the technical part of it, which is quite fair. Then we can, of course, take the debate with the Social Democrat Environment Rapporteur when he is present on a later occasion. However, I would just like to call on the deputy rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party in this area today to take the message home to the Social Democratic Group, in the hope that, in fact, the Social Democrats will work to ensure that their government will give priority to this when it makes the draft budget, if it is not possible to give greater priority to this summer's regional agreement. PFOS is mentioned, and it is a very, very big thing. And I understand that there are some things that need to be investigated, but this is going wider than PFOS. It is just as an example that the task here is enormous; this is also targeted all those in the vicinity of 35,000 already known soil pollutions, where the regions themselves point out that they need approx. 100 million kr. further to carry out the task. So that is just a comment that the rapporteur can make.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401130512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401130515	Thank you. However, as the Minister for the Environment explained, the government is very concerned about the PFOS problems, and after all, 3 million have been allocated to the 2022 Finance Act. kr. for the development of technologies, and here the Danish Environmental Protection Agency is in charge of coordinating the expert work undertaken in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401130537	There are no more brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur and we can move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mr SF. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401130553	Thank you, and it is the day of the temporary workers, because our environmental rapporteur is in negotiations elsewhere with another minister, so I have promised to take this matter for him and read his speech. The SF agrees that much more funding needs to be provided for the regions' action against soil pollution. The regions asked for an extra 100 million last year. kr. for e.g. The PFAS pollution and action against pesticide pollution from agriculture, that is to say, what comes from buried packaging and hotspots where pesticides have been spilled. The SF therefore proposed this amount in the financial law negotiations, but did not come through with it, unfortunately. We expect the government and the regions to find the necessary money for further funding during the economic negotiations in the spring for the economy 2023 and also in the draft budget for 2023. There are studies going on and we would like to speed it up, but the most urgent delay we have is the clean-up of hotspots where the PFOS is used or wasted, because there is already water purification technology, and for this purpose we were actually granted 3 million. kr. on the Finance Act to demonstrate the remediation of PFOS contaminated soil. We have knowledge of a technology that seems to be ideal. There is evidence that heating can eliminate PFOS and PFAS in small scale installations, and this will cost 2-3 million. kr. and a few months to demonstrate it in full scale. It's just getting started. This method can eliminate pollution on the spot, either while it is in the ground or right next door, and therefore it is not necessary to run the soil for purification elsewhere in the country. Therefore, it looks as if it is both cheaper and not least less environmentally and climate-friendly, and it might be nice to get a status for that work from the Minister for the Environment soon, and when it is started, so that we can move on quickly with this clean-up. It could, for example, be done. be that projects were made between the defence and Krüger, who have developed this method, or a municipality and Krüger, so we have a full-scale demonstration that we can proceed with. Then there is the fact that some of these pollutions are recent and they are not straying, and that means that the polluter pays, and we think that is a very, very crucial principle, which also applies to these cases. We shouldn't just stand here and take the bill and say it doesn't matter if you've been out polluting our groundwater with various fluorine substances, and we'll take the bill. No, the polluter pays, and that applies to everyone. This applies, for example, to defence. Finally, there is the issue of funding and, of course, reference is made to the Left's Financial Bill for 2022. However, the 2022 Finance Act is, of course, a law that has already been adopted, so it is rather strange to refer to a proposal and to some amendments which are not here anymore. But that is why I would like to ask the Left whether they will help to finance action against past sins with, for example, a chemical tax, so it is the users of dangerous chemistry today who are paying for the sins of the past, instead of the fact that it is so widely all taxpayers. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401130910	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401130916	I would like to start by saying that, with all due respect to the talented rapporteurs from both the SF and the governing party, it is a little problematic that we have more temporary workers present, because there is an unwritten rule that we do not go to the details. But I know Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist well enough for the day and I can see he nods that we can do that anyway on today's occasion, so thank you for that. The SF and the Left have had a fine cooperation in the past, also in relation to the generational pollution, but with all due respect for the government's announcement from before, it was only when we started this question debate that these matters were moved. However, I would like to know whether the SF in the committee work will help to look at a report text which could bring together a majority who could put that pressure on the government, so that, as I heard it, the SF's rapporteur says it can achieve the extra priority, either in connection with the region's financial agreement with the government this summer or on the government's financial bill or in the financial law agreement to come, applicable from 2023.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131014	Well, we always go openly and positively into committee work to find some good releases, also because the SF knows that across the Folketing we are immensely concerned about these PFOS and PFAS pollutions, because they are very violent. So we would very much like to see how to find a common text. In relation to the temporary work situation, I just think it is a little awful to say when we have a rapporteur who is sitting with it that he could not be here. This does not mean that we should not go to this rapporteur, because I know the problems very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131043	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131047	I am also grateful for the latter, which is more to mention, as we know, the unwritten rule. But I hope we can actually have a serious discussion. I know we can, because it is a task that is great. Now PFOS and PFAS are mentioned as examples here. But this is broader. Well, we have already known 35,000 I think it is, or in the surrounding area soil pollution, and the proposal here refers simply to what Danske Regioner himself says, i.e. an extra DKK 100 million. And then I will sign that we will hopefully be able to find a text that will embrace us, and thus a majority that can impose on the government either during the economic negotiations or to the Finance Act in the autumn to find the funding that we very, very much want to provide.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131132	However, I do not think there is any doubt that the SF is concerned about generational pollution, and I am pleased that we finally managed to find serious funding here a very short time ago to clean up some of the worst generational pollutions. This is something that previous colleagues have been struggling with for decades and, as we also said in relation to it, the first step we took with the massive funding we obtained there. But we're not done. There is a lot of work to be done in the future, as the rapporteur of the Left also points out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131204	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We can move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131213	Thank you. Soil pollution, pesticides in drinking water and in groundwater and generational pollution are huge problems in Denmark, and this is something Enhedslisten has been working on, and we are of course also pleased that we have managed to get through with the marketing of funds under the Finance Act to do something about the generational pollution. However, in relation to the proposal from the Left and the Left, the previous rapporteur was right in asking whether it was possible to draw up a report on this, and I would like to say this: I would like to be open to that, so that we will be able to try to make a report on it here, because we think it is necessary to give the regions more money to solve this task. If we now take the specific case we are talking about, the case of Korsør Nord, where there is pollution with PFOS, then it is actually the case that in the Region of Zealand a calculation has been made of what it would cost if you had to come in and clean it up, and there is the bill 43 million. kr. It's a little special with that case. At the moment it is located in the municipality of Slagelse, that is, Korsør is part of the municipality of Slagelse, and it is the fire department in the municipality of Slagelse that is thus the polluter, but it has been done at a time when PFOS was allowed and was not recognized as a toxic substance. What is then the problem is where the bill is going, when we then have the principle that the polluter has to pay. But where's the bill going? So, the municipality of Slagelse is those who are, we should say, the source, that is, it was they who were supposed to pay, but since this has happened at a time when this was not illegal, you cannot send the bill to the municipality of Slagelse. And then it happens with this type of pollution that they become what you call stray pollutants. Probably it will be the case that all the PFOS pollutions you have end up being strayed and that the strays mean that it is the regions that have them on their table, and the regions have no means whatsoever to do anything about it. 38,000 sources of pollution have been mentioned by the Left in their proposal • 38,000 and that is not just PFOS pollution. There are plenty of other pollutions that are just as glaring, you might say. So when we talk about PFOS, sometimes it may sound as if we have almost forgotten that there are thousands and thousands of sources of pollution other than PFOS, to which we also have to relate, and which we also have to deal with and do something about. Unfortunately, the answer is not that we clean the earth 38,000 places, because it would cost many billions that we do not have in the treasury. So there are some other initiatives that need to be taken. I think it's a good thing that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Nordqvist mentioned the fact that you are actually developing a method so that you can clean up PFOS cheaper and faster than what it originally seemed. I really find that interesting, and it would be really exciting if you could speed it up and perhaps also advance the possibilities of doing so. So we are in the spirit of the proposers' idea that more funds should be allocated to the regions in relation to this. We are not at all sure that the amount we are talking about should be 100 million. kr. It might as well be a whole different number, i.e. a much larger number, at least a completely different number. That's why, as I see it, it's kind of a hip shot when you say 100 million. kr. Here. I would call for this to be taken into account in relation to the forthcoming economic negotiations with the regions, which will take place here in May and will probably be completed by the beginning of June. Otherwise, I would call for this to be included in the discussion on the 2023 Finance Act. I'm in on it, too, like sir. Jacob Jensen said that it is possible to write a report on this proposal in relation to, like, focusing on, what kind of problem we are facing and what kind of problem we are giving to the regions, which they must also have the tools to solve. So in those words, I would say that we are positive. We agree with the authors of the motion that there is a real problem here and that it is necessary to give additional funds to the regions to carry out this task.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131729	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131733	I'd really like to sign that, sir. Bruno Jerup for. I had some doubts as to the way in which the Enhedsliste is presented with the specific proposal, i.e. whether you choose to support it, because that would be a good thing. Perhaps it could even be that we already have a majority now, and then we do not have to make a report and all these things at all. But no matter how Enhedslisten feels, sir. Bruno Jerup will answer in a few moments. I would like to sign that we can make a report in which we say quite specifically that the 100 million. kr. is what needs to be done, either in an economic agreement or in a financial law to 2023, and then it is up to the regions to give priority to those funds, because I think we agree that we should not stand here and say that 50 million will have to go. kr. extra for PFOS or something else. I think it is important that we continue to have the skills and priorities that the regions have just been given to deal with. So this is a boost to the general soil cleanup effort, both in connection with PFOS, when we know more about it, but also the 35,000-38,000 pollutants already known, in the order in which we can get the most environment for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131840	We will not vote in favour of the proposal as it stands. My comment was that I support the intention of the proposal, and I believe I would like to contribute to drawing up a report on the proposal, preferably, of course, if that is the case, that we can get a majority in the committee, which, as it were, is a part of signing that report, otherwise it may be a little unimportant, but if we can do so, I think it may be useful, also in relation to the further discussion. About the 100 million. kr. I would like to say that I have also said in my speech that if that is exactly the figure that is the right number to solve the problems we are facing, I will not sign it. But I would like to sign that there is a need to give the regions more money for this task, and it may well be that it is a larger figure than the 100 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131928	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131931	Yes, but the 100 million. kr. It is not something I have caught out of the air, it is in this way Danske Regioner who, according to their assessment, has pointed out that it should be added in addition to what they get in advance for this effort. So it's not just a shot in the mist or whatever it was, sir. Bruno Jerup called it earlier, it is actually assessed in Danske Regioner, so that's kind of what we're just trying to copy here. Then I just have to understand why we are voting against the proposal here, when we say that we agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401131957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401132000	As far as the proposal is concerned, it is unfunded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401132005	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. We can move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401132015	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. There is no doubt that we are suffering from the sins of the past. New, very serious cases of soil contamination are emerging on an ongoing basis, which unfortunately also have consequences for our drinking water. Most recently, it is about PFOS, where fire drills several years ago have polluted the surrounding areas, in fact so much that experts believe that there is a significant health risk in taking meat from cattle that have grassed the area. It's quite horrible, and I think it's very scary. Millions of people are spent each year investigating and cleaning contaminated soil. The regions do not believe that the funds are sufficient, and I certainly cannot deny that they are right. That is why Conservatives want the government to call for discussions and, indeed, would like to have a debate on this, where we can also find out how to find the funding, so that we can find out how much is needed here too to ensure the health of the Danes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401132111	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401132125	Thank you for that and also thank you to the Left for making the proposal. There's no doubt that it's important that we clean up these generational pollutions. After all, we have been talking about this for a very long time, and it has to be said that there is also a reason why some time has passed. In fact, there has been a lack of knowledge, and some tools have been lacking to clean it up. So it is not only because changing governments have not wanted to do anything about it. I think that is also important to say in this matter. But now there is, in fact, a basis for really getting started and then cleaning up these generational pollutions. What then lies, and that is also what the proposal here says, is that the regions say that they can actually do more than they have the economy to do today. And that is why we think it is quite good that we in the Folketing should also have this debate, which the Left has then raised. It's not really about 100 million. kr. kr. DKr. I can understand that. But to say that this should be almost impossible, I don't understand, because it certainly isn't. If you look at what else funds are being spent on, then 100 million. kr. Annually, in financial terms, it will be maximum. 400 million, because a budget law only goes four years ahead of what was to be financed. That is why I really hope, also after Enhedslisten's fine speech, that we in the committee across parties, perhaps even with the government, should never refuse anything, actually be able to agree that we will actually use the knowledge and capacity that is out there in order to clean up our generational pollutions. It's just that when we look at the know-how there is, it's actually Danish companies that can help clean this up. After all, we had a hearing with the Committee on the Environment and Food a little year ago, so I remember it at least when we had several companies inside to tell us what they really can do and how they want to clean this up. It is not the case that all generational pollutions are very different because in some places it is mercury; elsewhere it is something else, but there are actually companies that can clean this up. There are also companies that really want to, because unfortunately it is not only in Denmark, we have this challenge; we have it around the world. The fact is that in the Western world we have been very focused on momentum, and what we could do was fantastic and in the 1950s you weren't so careful. Throughout the 50s, 60s and 70s, and perhaps even through the 80s, it has to be said that technology development went very fast, but it did the consequences of the way we consumed, too, unfortunately, and that is why we are now facing that challenge. So I would like to thank the Left for making the proposal. And on the part of the Danish People's Party, we will do everything we can to get the country a report on the committee, preferably as broad as possible and with a majority, where you tell the government that this should be given priority in a financial law. Then, of course, we know that it is always a priority and that this 100 million. kr. is not 100 million. kr. kr. annual. Of course it's hard, but it's also important. We need to clean up when we have the capacity and knowledge to do so. So we can vote in favour of the proposal, but I do not think that is what it ends up with. We hope that we can make a report for which there will be a majority. If there is no majority in favour of it, we will vote in favour of the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401132457	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the New Civil Alliance, the Liberal Alliance, the Free Greens and the Christian Democrats, and that is why we are giving the floor to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401132522	Thank you. We have had this discussion in the past, but it was primarily in relation to the generational pollution, i.e. these major pollutions that have been in place for a long time. And we had, in all modesty, luck or skill, or what we can say, which certainly did, that we had a query debate initiated by the SF and the Left some time ago, which led to the fact that there was actually the necessary pressure on the government for funds to be set aside so that we could move forward with the generational pollution. Then I know that the government is sure to say that we ourselves have not done enough and so on. etc.; but in relation to the generational pollution there was a timing in relation to when you could really start it in terms of technique and access conditions etc. So with regard to the generational pollution, we have come a long way, and we are very pleased about that. This proposal is aimed at, you might say, the wider and the smaller, but many soil pollutions that we have. The number varies a little, but let's say 35,000-38,000 pieces, and then the whole PFOS is added, which is something that has appeared to the surface of the earth here in the past well over a year. So it is in this context that we are thinking that it is now time for us also to give further priority to the soil pollution part, because it is of course many thousands of people who are in local, where they live and who have the challenges with it. Potentially there can also be groundwater contamination and wait if you don't clean this up in time. Unfortunately, there was no extra in the economic agreement concluded last year with the regions, nor was there anything for the soil pollution part in relation to the financial law that was made. There was a less modest effort in relation to PFOS studies, etc., but not in relation to the broad approach to soil pollution. That's what we'd like to try to help with here. The figure of 100 million. kr. As I mentioned earlier in the debate, the Danish Regions have been judged by them to be what they believe there is capacity and also a need to speed up the implementation of many of the pollutions which could potentially pose a high risk to groundwater and nature and the environment, etc., and where the bill will therefore be much higher if they are not cleaned up in time. The alternative to that is that you have to wait plus 50 years before you can get around these things, and we don't think it's fair that you have to wait that long. Then, of course, there has been the classic discussion about • and it is quite fair that it has not been financed. But, of course, we have our priorities, and of course we have presented them, and we will do so again when we reach the autumn in relation to the 2023 priorities. Just as the government and other parties have their priorities, and that is what is beautiful about the people's regime. Then I hope that we can find each other in a priority of this area in 2023... either through a report that can oblige the government to prioritize it in the negotiations that the government is going to have with Danske Regions here before the summer holiday, or in connection with the Finance Act which will then be made in the autumn applicable for 2023. It is always the case that there is something more important than other things, and that is why, of course, this will also be what must be included in the overall priority, and that is where we believe, as I said, that it is essential both to clean up, but also to contain. That is the reason why we have put this forward, and I hope, as I said, that we can have a good debate. Now it may be limited what the debate can be about and I would just like to say that, without sounding like an awkward upbringing, it is rather remarkable that we have a rapporteur from the Enhedslisten, and I am very pleased that we have a substitute for the Social Democratic Party, and it is as it is, and then we have a number of other parties from the left who are not present, despite the fact that they say that this is something that is of great concern to you. It has just been said in a friendly manner; I think it is a bit of an insult to those who make proposals that one does not think that one can give it higher priority. Then it's said, without it sounding like a nasty upbringing. This is a very, very important agenda for us, and it is something we have been following for a long time, and it is something we will also insist on, because we can see that this is not something we should invent; it is not something we should believe maybe there, maybe we will have an effect. We know that the regions are working on this. It's a matter of expanding capacity and getting this work up-to-date. That is why, in conclusion, I would like to express my appreciation of what has been said, not least by my good colleague, and also by the Regional Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Bruno Jerup of the Enhedslisten, who says that you would like to look at whether a story can be made. Sir. René Christensen also mentioned that we can make a broad account of the proposal, and he will even support it, and I would also like to sign it for the fact that this issue is a priority for us to move forward. I think we owe that to the next generations too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401133017	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220401133041	The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has submitted: Report on the Review Committee's investigation into the involvement of the Defence and Emergency Management Board in implementing the decision in autumn 2020 that all minks in Denmark should be killed. 15) The account will appear in the Parliamentstidende.dk. Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 5 April 2022, at 1 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. And I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
