ParlaMint-DK_20220426130004	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426130009	I give the floor to the Prime Minister for an introductory statement. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426130018	The war in Ukraine has been a shadow over Europe for two months. Last week I was given the opportunity in Kyiv to meet some of the Ukrainian men and women who have lived through the terrible horrors of war, and on behalf of the Folketing, the government and the Danish people I assured President Zelensky of Denmark's continued support for Ukraine's struggle for peace and freedom. At the same time, on behalf of Denmark, I gave a commitment to further contributions, not least more military equipment, but also to, among others. mine clearance, for the prosecution of war crimes, and I would like to thank the Danish Parliament today for its broad cooperation, both in providing arms and military aid, humanitarian action and in receiving Ukrainian refugees in Denmark. I also hope for broad cooperation to be free of Russian gas, and I also hope for broad cooperation in relation to targeted aid for those most affected by rising prices. The consequences of the war in Europe are many, all Danes now feel the rising prices, energy, gasoline, everything becomes more expensive, but of course some are hit harder than others. Therefore, the government will invite the parties of the Folketing to negotiations as soon as possible on how best to provide targeted help to the Danes who are hard hit by the price increases and who have the least to resist. Several parties have already made proposals, and I would like to sign for that. On the part of the government, we will, among other things: suggest that we help the folk pensioners who have the least, with an extra elderly check of 5,000 kr. tax-free. Our proposal is also that we increase the transport allowance. It will benefit you who have a long way to go to work. Now we have to negotiate, and we look forward to that. But I would like to point out before then that we cannot keep all Danes free of injury, because if we did, it would probably only increase prices even further. In other words, we must try to find a difficult but necessary balance where we also continue to look after the Danish economy. I am pleased that a majority here in the Folketing has already taken responsibility for strengthening the Danish economy also on the slightly longer track. With Denmark we can increase the work offer by approx. 12,000 people and bnp with 17.5 billion. kr. in the year 2030. Last week we presented so Denmark can more II... to free us from Putin's gas and accelerate the green transition even more. But we're not done yet. After the summer break, the government presents a 2030 plan to set a responsible economic path into the future, sharp priorities and more reforms that make the Danish economy stronger and get more people into work, so that in the future we also have a solid economy and something to resist when crises hit our society. The world and Europe were changed when Russia entered Ukraine, the war is back on our continent, and this requires us here in Europe to take greater responsibility, that we spend significantly more money on defence and security, and it is therefore my very clear recommendation that on 1 June we vote in favour of being able to participate in European cooperation on security and defence. We are the only country that cannot fully participate in the EU's security and defence cooperation. Each Dane must now make up for itself, whether Denmark should take more responsibility on itself or whether we should retain our reservations. For me, it is clear that the ages have changed forever.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426130358	Thank you to the Prime Minister and that means that we are now starting the debate. Here you go, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426130404	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by signing for the Prime Minister's visit to President Zelenskyj last week and for the commitment to send weapons to Ukraine's freedom struggle. This is important, and we fully support it in the Left and will press for it forever. We must all back up and I hope that the next step we can take together can be the reopening of the Danish Embassy in Kyiv. But that is not what I am going to use my Question Time here for, because I am going to use it for something quite different. Because in these days a lot of young people who are about to start a high school education get answers to their high school application, and that is why I would like to ask about the government's agreement on the compulsory distribution of high school students. After all, we in the Left believe that freedom and personal responsibility go hand in hand, and that is why I deeply regret the fact that the government will rob an entire generation of their freedom to choose the high school they would prefer to attend. I don't understand. I think it is a responsibility that young people should take on with their parents that they should choose. It's been hard getting some answers from the government about this. Now we know that it is in the vicinity of 20,000 young people who have to be forced to distribute each year because their parents are either too poor or too rich. For 20,000 young people, then, the future must be determined by how much money their parents earn. That's what determines their educational choices, and it's stigmatizing for young people who start with this stamp on their foreheads. It's a way to put people in boxes like the government does, and I have to say I don't like that. It is an interference in the freedom of the individual, and it gives less freedom and fewer opportunities. When I'm around talking to the families who are going to apply to a high school next year, there's a big concern about this, there's a big fear of being subjected to this forced distribution, and that's a real concern. No one wants to take away their free choice. Nobody in here likes that either. When it comes to young people, they also want to go to the local high school with their friends instead of being sent far away by bus or train for their own wishes. So I just want to ask the Prime Minister if it doesn't make an impression that there are so many who are concerned about government policy and who are afraid to be sent elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426130628	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426130630	There are two things. First of all, I think we should start somewhere else. When I had the opportunity to start a youth education, ethnicity was not considered at all. It wasn't really a factor at all. At that time in Denmark we had a very, very small immigration and had had a very small immigration from non-western societies. Today, Danish society is quite a different society in this respect, and for a number of years we have been able to see that we have received youth education, and this also applies to primary and day schools, which have become more and more ethnically divided. I am deeply concerned about that. I am deeply concerned because I have no doubt about what many people in the educational world are saying. If you have too many non-western backgrounds in a few programmes in Denmark, and you may even experience schools that we have heard about over time, where almost everyone has a non-western background, how can you ensure integration? In other words, if the majority culture is not present at all at the local primary school or in kindergarten or in youth education, how should one integrate into Danish society? So I am in favour of a Denmark where we are interfering, and that applies to housing policy, and that applies to education, and it is clear that it comes of course with a price, a price that is linked to a failed integration policy for many decades. But an increasingly ethnically divided Denmark I do not think is good, I do not think it is wise, and I find it difficult to see how we can make integration succeed at some point if we accept that schools are completely ethnically divided apart. So if we do not want an ethnically divided Denmark, even if it is difficult, and many campaigns will be run against it, we will have to take responsibility for us in this house: How do we ensure that schools and educations in Denmark reflect the surrounding society? That is what we, together with the majority here, have taken the lead in trying to find a solution to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426130823	Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426130824	That solution is wrong. For instead of solving the problem where it is, instead of solving it in the high schools where it is a problem, you put this solution on top of everyone, that is, it is just like the policy now, thank God, of the time of Mrs Ritt Bjerregaard: that which not everyone can learn, no one should learn. So what not all high schools can achieve, no one can achieve. Then no one has to choose for themselves. Well, I think it's a strange way of looking at it. Well, who's next here? Is it the parents who should not be able to choose their children's school next time? Is it the ethnicities in the nursing homes that are wrong? I mean, does it have to be made up as well? When this concerns me, is it because it is such a basic thinking from the Social Democratic Party that each person's life is a piece in the big picture, where yours always is the kind of society the Prime Minister should have, where it is the Prime Minister and the government, moreover, that distributes where we are going, represented by the ministers who happen to be sitting here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426130931	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426130932	No, and that's unbelievable nonsense to say. That is also nonsense to say, I think. But I can try to ask you back: how will the Left solve it? And you're with the Left, for example. for Muslim free schools? I'm not in favour. I think it's wrong. I think it is wrong if we get a large group of people who have roots in countries other than Denmark, who for various reasons end up having children in the same schools, where wearing a scarf is the most normal thing, because it is not the most normal thing in Denmark, it is not wearing a scarf; and where the most normal thing may be other languages than the Danish language, because it is not good for Denmark, because the language we have to share in Denmark is Danish. I think it is a problem when, for example, we are dealing with a problem. In the case of schools where social control is exercised, where girls are not allowed to go to parties, do not participate in camp schools. I think it is a problem when I hear about social control that you should not be allowed to have it too festive, because then you become too Danish. And I know that the risk of social control is increasing compared to how many people with the same roots go to the same school, and that is what I am trying to do something about. I would like to hear about the proposals made by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131041	Sir. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131043	It is of course interesting that the Prime Minister always has the approach that if you want another solution, if you want to use a screwdriver instead of a hammer to screw in, you will not take responsibility when the Prime Minister has found out the big hammer. I don't think it's the best tool to use. I think it's best to focus on where the problem is. Nor do I want to tear down all free schools because there are problems with some of them. I want to solve the problems. I do not want that approach of putting all the problems that are involved into it. I think that the young people who have to choose the high school now and next year should have confidence. It is a generation that I should like to say has suffered enough, including during corona. These are some young people who are far better at making decisions in their lives than the young people of the Prime Minister and my generation were. Some people are more responsible. They're acting better. They take less time on their education. They have more control over their lives. Let us now show them the confidence that they are allowed to choose for themselves, rather than that there are 20,000 young people who are told by the Prime Minister: I know better than you where you are going.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131151	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131152	I wouldn't dream of saying that last thing. I have very, very much confidence in our youth generation. That's just not what this is about, because the thing is, we haven't solved this problem. For 40 years we have allowed the problem to grow so big that we eventually ended up having schools in Denmark, where having a Danish background is the abnormal and it is a huge problem. So you could also turn it around and say: if you fight for those girls who don't I fight for confidence in our young people, and there's nothing I would want more than that we didn't have to regulate this area at all. But the freedom struggle for the girls who are being oppressed today, I wish we could get together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131253	Thank you. The question is closed. Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. We move on, and now it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131300	Thank you. After all, it is good to see that the Prime Minister has come back from Ukraine energetically. I was able to read on DR's text TV that the Prime Minister had arrived in frozen pork roast and several sheets of hashish. I hadn't quite seen that before me, but peace be with it; joke aside. Fortunately, the Prime Minister also brought a lot more to Ukraine, which was both needed and absolutely necessary, and thank you very much for that. I am glad that we are a very broad majority in the Folketing supporting this effort. During the past week, we have focused on various aspects of the green transition that will help us to speed up energy independence, CO2 At the same time, it is relevant what is crucial to me and to SF: that we have to achieve our climate. On the one hand, the climate crisis does not go away, even if Putin's war one day should go away, and on the other hand, we must in fact aim at a certain understanding that climate and energy and security policy are linked. That brings me to the first question. We want security about how we reach the 70%. We will if agriculture delivers as agreed and if the green tax reform for industry and industry is calculated, but we cannot be entirely sure of that. I would therefore like to know whether the Prime Minister is willing to guarantee that the green tax reform will be adjusted if it turns out by 2030 that the 3.7 million will not be delivered. t CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131443	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131444	Now the SF President made it sound like I brought a pork roast to Ukraine, and I didn't. As I understand it, it appeared to me that text television still exists and is being read by so many people... and then the leader of Enhedslisten says no, so that's obviously where Enhedslisten gets his news from, but that might explain the view of NATO that you use a media we used in the 1980s. Well, leave it alone. I didn't bring any pork roast. If I understand that, it was two telegrams that had been brought together in a very, very colourful way. And then I'll answer the second question. How good it is that in Denmark we choose to use the situation we are in, so offensively, because we have to free ourselves from Russian gas, but we do not just have to do that. We must meet our 70-percent target. There are many of us in here, not all of us who feel very, very committed sometimes. That is why I think it would be quite natural, in the negotiations we have on tax reform and other initiatives, for it to be included in the agreement, of course, that we should go back and visit it again if things do not go as expected. Whether it should be exactly that way, I dare not answer it. There I am not close enough to the negotiations, but we want to achieve the 70-percent objective, and I feel sure that we will come to Denmark, but of course we must keep up with it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131601	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131602	Thank you for that answer; I am very pleased about that, because it will be absolutely necessary. Following the presentation of the green tax reform, the government has clearly, as everyone knows, set up a rebate for cement factories, brickworks, refineries, etc. At the same time, the government has said: something for something. A grant of 7 billion has been proposed. kr. distributed over a number of years for conversion, collection of CO2 It is important that the professions deliver, and this requires that the largest emitters, who account for a very large part of the overall climate pollution of the industries, actually also deliver. So I would like to know whether the Prime Minister agrees with SF that the discounts and subsidies should be designed so that it is only given or actually triggered if a company undertakes to reduce its CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131702	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131703	Now I do not want to go into the negotiations so much, because if I know the SF President right, then the SF President sits in those negotiations, and I do not do so as Prime Minister. But the whole idea of CO2 is not to get companies to move out of Denmark. The whole idea is to get turbo on the conversion in Danish industry, in Danish business, so we get to the goal of 70 percent, so that we retain jobs in Denmark, but in a green way. That's what the whole intention is. So I find it very difficult to imagine that we are going to continue, and that there are companies that say: Regardless of what you may have of good ideas in relation to climate, we just continue out there without doing anything. So I think we can work that out. And then I would like to be allowed, and perhaps just stress it, to discuss specific companies too, that the world does not get any better from the fact that good Danish companies move to other countries and continue their production there. So the whole task must be to make a green tax reform that maintains jobs, but does so in a green way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131808	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131810	That is precisely why I asked the question, because I am concerned that the Danish jobs stay here, but that we make demands on them if we are to give them some kind of pool. It could, for example, be done. be a pool to innovate so that in the future you can actually become CO2 This is really true of both the companies I have mentioned, among others. cement factories, but this also applies to agriculture, and agriculture is the next step. I am just as concerned about the fact that if agriculture cannot deliver, then it is the case that these subsidies are linked to a commitment, and I would really just like the Prime Minister to confirm this: that, of course, agriculture must also deliver in relation to our climate commitment. After all, I am not talking about moving agriculture out of Denmark, but we must always find the balance that means that we have the climate reductions, but that we cannot avoid delivering on the climate either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131905	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131906	I think that is right, and I think it is in all modesty that this is one of the things we have proven for nearly three years in Denmark: that we can have very, very high climate ambitions and make a wealth of green deals without the price that companies have left our country. In other words, we have the lowest unemployment rate for 13 years, it is less than 3%, we have the highest employment rate ever. So never before in Denmark has there been so many in work as there are right now; it has been fantastically well done while at the same time we are converting our society faster than most others. So I think we are well in the process of proving what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says, and that is also what I am about to say, but that must be the green thread in the negotiations we have towards summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131953	Thank you to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr. We move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426131958	Thank you, President. For the Question Time of 22 March, I asked the Prime Minister if she agreed that by 2030 we would have to build much more renewable energy and the Prime Minister agreed completely. Last week, the game was played... Denmark can do more II... and played out for a green tax reform, so thank you for that. Both proposals seem to me to contain green ambitions, excellent starting points ahead of the negotiations that are about to get under way. But as the Prime Minister knows, we in the Radical Left are also very, very interested in concrete plans and in the fact that funding is under control, and so I sincerely hope that you will listen to us and, of course, to other parties in the Danish Parliament when we say that Denmark can more II... really is a really nice vision catalogue, but that there is a long way to the concrete plan because it is great visions. However, it is urgent and there are no proposals on how we should finance it all with the play-outs. We in the Radical Left have a concrete proposal and answer to how we can finance the green transition towards 2030 and get this permanent green space, and so that it is possible to construct and implement the many very large energy projects, and so that it does not mean that it will be even more expensive to be a Dane. • Denmark can show something along the way to being able to do more in Denmark. It shows a direction, and I think it is a good one, but it does not prove how it is to be done. There is still no funding. That is why I would like to ask: what considerations is the Prime Minister making about finding funding for those who really, and I think we are all agreed on this, to recognise historic giant projects that we must start now and here, not just over the coming many years, but over the coming months and years?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426132201	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426132202	Thank you for those words. Indeed, we are very much in agreement on this issue, and I see it perhaps a little the same as when good friends helped to push this government to reach the 70-percent target. There, too, we did not have all the answers together, either on how to get there or on how to finance it. Now we've come a long way. Now we are in a new situation where both we and the rest of Europe must get out of Putin's claws. We need to get rid of fossil fuels from Russia faster than expected, you might say. By the way, it is very good for the climate and it is good for our security. And there we start, I think, in the same way, that is, by setting the level of ambition we have done with Denmark, we can do more than that, and then we start the concrete negotiations with each other afterwards on how exactly we do it. The Radical Left itself has, of course, come up with a proposal for a green climate fund. I myself have had the opportunity to have it reviewed, also in very detail, by the party. I think there are some exciting thoughts in that work and other parties have been there with something similar. It is, of course, certain that we must have the green transition financed jointly. We have succeeded so far, so we will succeed from here too. And it is clear that when the government gets more concrete with something, of course we also put forward funding proposals. But I would actually like to sign up for the reflections which, among other things, have been made. The Radicals have made a case for more stable green funding, if you like.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426132324	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426132325	Thank you. As Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr also mentioned, in the green tax reform there is funding for 7 billion. kr.: 4 billion kr. to the conversion and 3 billion. kr. to CCS, i.e. this thing about pulling CO2 but it's like coming from inside the companies themselves, and that's not enough either. The Danish Climate Fund, to which the Prime Minister kindly referred, and thanks for that, is an idea to establish a climate fund of 75 billion. kr. and then invest 25 billion. kr. in new technology, in research, in afforestation and in conversion, because if we ensure such a conversion, we can achieve not only a 70% reduction, but actually an 80% reduction. in 2030, in the same way as Mærsk has set itself that goal. I agree that the companies are there. They're on it. They just need us to deliver both funding and the concrete plans, and that is why the question is: is the government interested in getting more concrete in the financing of the negotiations ahead of the negotiations here and taking in our proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426132436	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426132437	In other words, first of all, I am glad that research is specifically mentioned here, because this is something we have said in some instances on the part of the government: that, if we are to achieve our climate objectives, we will not get out of the way of researching some of the solutions that do not exist today. It is very much technology that must help the world through the climate crisis that we are facing, so it was nice to have it said, also from the other side. Because we have often been shot in the shoes, that we have no other solution than that, but we have actually just tried to say that new technology is part of the solution, so I am happy with those words. We would very much like to move forward with the concrete ideas that the parties have in relation to funding, and this also applies to the proposal from the Radicals, which, as far as I can see, is both well thought out and thoroughly worked out and indeed something we are in dialogue with each other about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426132523	Last question from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426132524	Well, I'm really glad to hear that, and I might even encourage it. It's a fund, and it's not uncontroversial. I'm in on it where we find 75 billion. kr. in the event of immediate taxation of the deferred taxes in the remaining capital pension depots. This means, of course, that it will not lead to an increase in the tax burden, on the contrary, it is merely an advance, and then it is financing. And at this time, when it may be said that a great deal of money is being borrowed, we are helping to support the increase in the structural deficit limit, because we have major challenges ahead of us, it would probably be quite reasonable to find something that is permanent and financed too. At any rate, we would be delighted to be involved in this so that we can fund our conversion seriously until 2030. I am pleased with the Prime Minister's intentions, but it has to become concrete plans now, and I hope that the Prime Minister can confirm that this will be in place by the summer, so we have the concrete plans, also financed, for how we achieve the objectives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426132632	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426132633	I am also concerned that we will, of course, have the ambitions, on which we agree, translated into concrete solutions, and we have been good at that so far. Now we are in a new and significantly changed situation. As I said at the outset, I am of course pleased that Denmark is a country that chooses, although it is on such a violent background, namely war in Ukraine, to use this crisis to make us stronger in the future, thereby creating new jobs and ensuring that there is competitiveness in the Danish economy and that, moreover, we achieve our climate ambitions. Now we have put out some things on the part of the government, and so have other parties, and we are doing so quietly, or I am not even sure that it is quite calmly, but we are in the process of negotiations, among other things. on green tax reform, and I think we should certainly look at that before we go on summer holidays if we can't be done with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426132723	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Then we move on, and now it is Mrs Mai Villadsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426132732	Thank you. And I want to continue a little along the same lines as the previous two, not on text TV or hash or pork roast smuggling, but on the climate, of course, because it is extremely important, and because the government recently presented its proposal for a CO2 It has been long awaited, but it is really nice that the playout is now there. And from the point of view of Enhedslisten, the proposal also contains a number of good tactics. In general terms, the main concern for me and for us is that it does not have enough CO2 we would like to work on that will be even more important in the negotiations. After all, the Prime Minister himself announced back in the New Year's speech that the government would come up with that particular initiative this year, and I remember having praised the Prime Minister myself for saying the following: "The Danish principle that the widest shoulders must bear the most. It must also apply in the green transition: if you emit CO2 Now there has been a move, and that, as you know, gives a very, very large tax rebate to some of the biggest emitters, and I cannot get into that with what the Prime Minister has said before. For the Prime Minister said that the broadest shoulders must bear the most, but at the same time there is a special treatment, one has to say, to some of the greatest emitters, among others. Aalborg Portland. I do not understand how it can be connected, so I must ask the Prime Minister: Does the Prime Minister seriously believe that Aalborg Portland has very narrow shoulders?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426132909	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426132910	No, but now it's hard to do shoulders in relation to a single company. But as I understand it, about a quarter of the CO2 is also related, of course, to the fact that there is large CO2 so the picture that has been drawn that the cement industry is not going to contribute, both in terms of reductions and in general, is not really correct. However, I would like to say that our aim will not be to close down companies in Denmark at any time. And I don't see why we should end up there. In addition to the fact that there will be people who would lose their jobs, and I personally would be incredibly sorry for that on behalf of those people, that production will just move to another place, because the world is screaming on cement. I myself have just been to Ukraine and seen the destruction, and that is just one place where we will need cement. But in developing as a society, we can't build everything in wood... that's a lot of cement. So I would rather that cement production is in Denmark and converts over the next few years into green production than I would like us to close down, for example. Aalborg Portland as a company, so that they move their production to another country and continue CO2 So I think the task is to make a green tax reform. And by the way, I would like to say thank you and acknowledge that Enhedslisten would like to join us. I hope that we can do this broadly across the parties of the Folketing; that, compared to the part of the industry that has the most difficulty in the transition, we will have pushed through the green tax reform, but that it is, without shutting down companies, that the aim is at least to ensure employment and proper conditions for the business community, while accelerating the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133106	Mai Villadsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133107	I believe that the aim of all mandates here in the Folketing is to ensure employment, jobs and green conversion at the same time. The challenge is, of course, that if it is not the biggest emitters who pay it extra, then it will be the small and medium-sized enterprises which also have a lot of people employed, perhaps not at the same frequency on the individual company, but which then risk having to raise a larger part of the bill. And that is why they are also out and very critical now, and I understand that. Basically, I think there is a lack of justice in the proposal that has been made, and I hope that we will be able to correct that. For my great concern is, on the one hand, that it will then be just some small companies that will have to pay and, on the other hand, that, with regard to the building materials we will need in the future, the cement, which is, of course, the main source, will have a competitive advantage over some of the most sustainable building materials. Does it not also concern the government and the Prime Minister that small businesses and more sustainable building materials can be affected by this advantage?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133214	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133215	Now I would very much hate to call myself an expert on building materials, so I think that the questioner will have to be a little more specific in terms of what kind of competitive situation it is that it is supposed to be. After all, the negotiations must be that we can be sure that we find the right balance, and it is quite right that there is a bill to be paid. And I would just like to stress that my words before were not a promise that Arla is a company that is going to close in Denmark because of the green transition. I would like to emphasise this, because it may happen, but what is then the task on our part is to ensure that it is done properly and that people move on to other jobs. So it was just that it couldn't be interpreted as if I promised Arla would shut down a company. Of course, we need to find the right balance sheets. I hope, on the other hand, that there is also a concern to take into account the part of Danish business that is harder to adapt than others, because there are some companies that can do so more easily. There are also some who are in front of others. So I agree that we need to find a balance point, but exactly that with the competitive advantage, I actually don't think I understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133323	Mai Villadsen, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133324	One is the tax. Something else is the way to do it. And what the government is up to for some of those who find it hardest to adapt is technological solutions, that is to say, to suck CO2 And it has been said before that the hockey staff is buried, that the hope that this is how we solve the problems is what we have put into our graves; now we are acting. My great concern is: What if we do not achieve that technology if Aalborg Portland does not succeed in achieving the goal of sucking CO2 I would really like to hear the government if there is a plan B, that is, a plan B, if the technology does not succeed. So what do we do? Is there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133416	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133416-2	In my view, it is quite natural to follow up on whether things are going as we wish, in these agreements as well as in others. But if you imagine that we had not used technology to get to where we are today with the green transition, where would we be? Well, I think that now we are all talking about heat pumps as the most natural as an alternative to gas pine. It's a technological solution. The wind turbines are a technological solution. The solar cells are a technological solution. It is not long ago that power-to-x almost sounded like science fiction, and now you're already talking I think it was actually Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr who told me the other day about the next generation of power-to-x. Technological progress is going so fast that, as I see it, we must consider it our friend in this and as a necessary prerequisite. But, of course, we must have an eye together on whether the conditions for the agreements we make are in place, and then we must be ready to meet again years and build on top, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133515	Thank you to Mrs Mai Villadsen. Then we move on to Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133522	Thank you. 14-year-old Emma says to Berlingske's reporter: "I find it strange that my parents' income should determine which high school I should end up at. She one of the several thousand young people who next year will become an involuntary part of the government's forced experiment... the agreement that means that in future students will be forced to attend high schools that they do not want to go to. If your parents make a little too much or a little too little money, you risk being forced somewhere far away from family and friends with up to an hour's transport from your home each way. If ethnicity is a problem, close those high schools, build others out and distribute the students. I think it is important to tell Emma that I think it is deeply unfair and that we should change it now. What is really the PM's response to Emma and the thousands of other young people who are now at risk of having to be redistributed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133632	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133633	A majority in the Folketing has decided on a new model for youth education, and that is why we have tried to give the majority a response to how we can ensure a more representative distribution of young people. I just have to get this right. Is it being said by the Conservatives that you have to close those high schools? So aren't some young people going to get a long way to their place of education? I guess some other young people will have to travel over a longer distance. That is why I really have to answer a little the same as I did to Mr Beazley. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen: There are never any ideas for me cast in concrete. I'm always willing to discuss whether we can do things better. In Denmark we must not distribute on the basis of ethnicity, but we have received youth education that is divided from ethnicity, and that is what is our challenge. We might as well be honest and say that a few years ago there were no ethnically divided youth education courses in Denmark, but that has come today. And if we think it's a problem I think it is, not least because of the social control, I know can be a companion when the concentration gets too high... what do we do then? As I understand it, students cannot be distributed on the basis of ethnicity, so what is the solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133748	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133749	Unfortunately, it is not only in the field of high school that the government wants to deprive students of their free choice. The Prime Minister's party colleague, sir. Jens Joel, has written such a whole book about how problematic he thinks free school choice is in the primary school area. According to Mr. Jens Joel is therefore only the first stop before the forced distribution also hits the country's primary schools. The Minister for Education has also been out to state that the government is going to propose how it should be done, and so I would really like to ask the Prime Minister today: is there an upper limit to how many children in primary school are to be forced to attend another school and where is that limit for the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133833	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133833-2	There is beginning to be a pattern in that there is not an answer from Mr. Søren Pape's own side. You can criticize the question and I will answer it, but you don't give an answer, because it's a fair discussion. Put aside the majority of the Danish Parliament. What do we do? So will we continue a development in which Denmark is becoming more and more ethnically divided in the area of housing, in the area of day-care, in the field of school, in the field of youth education? Do we think this is the right way to develop a society? I'm afraid of that development. I do not think that this leads to integration or cohesion. I think it brings the opposite, as it does, among other things. Also seen in the field of crime, as both Mr. Søren Pape and I have been working on a lot of things in the past. If this isn't the answer fair enough, then what is the answer if we are to avoid an increasingly ethnically divided society? Then I am not quite sure that I understood the question, i.e. whether I should put a figure on it that way, but I can of course say what is the government's position, and that is that we want, in general, both primary and secondary education in Denmark to reflect the surrounding society and that we do not get too much concentration of ethnic groups in one place or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133943	Sir. Søren Pape Poulsen for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426133944	The Prime Minister will probably learn to live with that it is the Prime Minister who, in what we have here, called Question Time with the Prime Minister, is asked about something. And then I would like to take part in a lot of debates about our schools, about ethnicity, about the huge challenges we have, places in society. But I get worried about what I hear here. Because what I hear is and I can be corrected if I have heard wrong, because it is very, very violent that all the primary schools in the country should expect that they will now have the same pattern and that forced distributions of small children will be sweeping over the country's primary schools. If we are to understand this, then we are going to fight the free and private schools in the same way as the private colleges, so that the government can have what it wants. I think that is a very, very fundamental discussion on what kind of society we want. And I do not want a society where there are some schools that become very ethnic with the resulting problems; but that small Denmark should then be the test cloth for a project of forced distribution I think is really scary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134057	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134058	Well, then let's straighten it out right away. No, no one in the government is planning to transfer the model of upper secondary education to primary school. Then we fixed it and set it aside. And it is quite true that the Question Time is for the Prime Minister to answer questions. I've just noticed that there's not a lot of answers from Mr. Søren Pape's side, and the ability to do so, and it is actually quite impressive, not least because you want to be Prime Minister, to bypass all questions and never give an answer. Søren Pape Poulsen Then we will meet for a debate). Oh, I'd love to. I've invited Mr. Chandler, too. Søren Pape at a time when I think we got no to a debate. So, yeah, it'll be fine. But you have to answer, because the challenge is there. And the reality is that changing governments have not solved this problem for many years. The problem has been allowed to grow too big, and if we agree that a primary school in which 90% of the population live. of the children have minority background, is not good, what is the solution then? This is the discussion we are going to have with each other. I should also like to add that I am not in favour of this, for example. is Muslim free schools in Denmark, where the possibility of meeting a child with a Danish background is almost impossible. Actually, I don't think that's good. Søren Pape Poulsen I look forward to the debate).
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134204	Thank you, sir. Søren Pape Poulsen. The question is over. We move on to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134211	Thank you, President. Let me just say at the outset that I think we all would very much like to meet with the Prime Minister and Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen in many debates, and we look forward to that. I do not normally belong to the indecisive type, but I really think that these debates are difficult to prepare for. What to do, what to do? First of all, I would have taken up the reservation vote and so on, but it seems that no one else really cares about it, since the Prime Minister mentioned it a little in his concluding remarks. I do not want to stand out too much as a new party chairman, so it may be strange to ask about it. Then you could address the excellent announcement made yesterday by the Prime Minister, whom I cannot help but see as a small compliment to the Danish People's Party before Easter, where we asked: Should we not tax-free the elderly cheque? That's close to what the Prime Minister is proposing. We also asked: should we not withdraw the transport allowance? And that's what the Prime Minister is suggesting. Well, that's a good thing, but that topic is like the one that's been taken. So I thought, how do other party presidents do? And then, for a rare time, I came to think of Mr. Torsten Gejl. I know that he is not a party chairman, but he has such a public service function running from the platform, where he conveys questions from the real reality, and I will try that too. Then I went to my Facebook page and asked what really interests people... so if you had the possibility of it and the privileged access that I have to ask the Prime Minister, what would you ask? And what a lot of people really want to know is: Now that the Prime Minister has made this very ambitious CO2 tax plan and has specifically exempted Aalborg Portland, which has a close connection with the Prime Minister's constituency, how much has Aalborg Portland actually spit in the Prime Minister's electoral box? I'd like to ask that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134404	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134405	Firstly, I am not aware of the fact that a specific reservation has been made with regard to Aalborg Portland. It is included in the proposal for the tax reform that there is a part of Danish production and Danish industry which has different conditions than others and which should therefore have some other conditions in connection with the necessary green conversion. As far as Aalborg Portland's involvement with political parties is concerned, that is something Aalborg Portland must answer. Finally, I would like to say that I am delighted if the Danish People's Party would like to take part in doing something for the elderly, and I am particularly pleased because I have had some doubts as to where the Danish Parliament is going. I have no doubt that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt is very classically bourgeois.I even think that if I say that he is very classical right-wing, it will be regarded as a compliment in his camp. And I know what the consequence of that is. These are savings in our welfare society: savings in health care, the elderly, children, education or even disability, or where you can find a way to give the tax relief that others in the blue block wishing to get. At least that's the pattern that normally follows. So if the words today mean that the Danish People's Party is still a party with which we can work in relation to social improvements, then we have actually got something really good out of this Question Time today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134524	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134525	Danish People's Party is blue block soft heart. I spoke of this even when I was elected President, so nothing has changed there. And I would very much like to help guarantee the areas mentioned by the Prime Minister. I consider myself to be an arch-citizen, and part of being a citizen is also to have a natural but, on the other hand, transparent relationship with business. And we know that business seems to have a natural relationship with this government. After all, Aalborg Portland has been out to indicate that election contributions have been made. It is just up to the limit of DKK 20,000, where you cannot be so transparent. What is unclear, however, is how many of the contributions have been made. Is it 5, 10, 20, or is it 100? Well, how much are we up to? Now that we have chosen to exclude this so-called mineralogical process, which I understand is the defining one, and which also helps Rockwool, one can ask: is there a connection? Well, do those who really get hit hard by this CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134631	Then we get answers from the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134634	I know that an exceptionally good piece of expert work has been done ahead of the negotiations that are now under way, about green tax reform, and that this work has also clearly said that there is a great difference between the conditions that apply to companies. Besides, I'm gonna leave a claim of that nature. But it is almost bizarre that a social democratic government should be accused by bourgeois parties of wanting to maintain jobs in Denmark. As far as all the things I expected I would be criticised for as Social Democratic Prime Minister, I actually expected that the list would be about as long as it is, perhaps even infinite, but that blue parties in Denmark actually think it is a problem that a social democratic government would like the Danes to have a job to stand up to in the morning and that Danish companies should not be pushed out of the country because of the necessary green transition, I had not actually expected. I would almost have thought that blue parties would say: how nice it is that we have a social democratic government which is also concerned with Danish business. Because of course we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134741	Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt for the last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134744	I think it is right and proper that the Prime Minister should acknowledge so openly that the CO2 tax she presents will move jobs out of the country unless special arrangements are made, for example. by introducing derogations for undertakings which have based themselves on mineralogic processes. What I am talking about is, of course, whether the fact that you make such a reservation, an exception to these general very, very damaging charges, has something to do with the direct donation of money to the Social Democratic election campaign. That is what is being speculated in out there, and that is why I think the Prime Minister is doing a little disservice by just saying that Aalborg Portland has to answer that. Why can't the PM just answer that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134825	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134827	I can say that when the government organises its policy, we do it on the basis of what we think is right for Denmark. And I wouldn't think that the right thing is to put a CO2 Well, we're an employee party. There's almost nothing I'm more concerned with in this world than the Danes having work. By the way, I am proud to represent a government that has helped to support the highest employment in Denmark ever. Because if there is something that really matters to people, it is probably not the political discussions; then it is of course whether, when they wake up in the morning, there is a job for mother and father and whether they can make their everyday life work. I hope that when we are negotiating the green tax reform, it is also what we have in mind. Equally important is to achieve our climate ambitions, just as important is that we have a Danish industry that is competitive and that we continue to have such a high level of employment in the country. If not all parties have that view, you must take it to the table, but that is what I will fight for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134931	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, and then we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426134937	Thank you. One of the Prime Minister's ministers recently explained to me that, as a Social Democrat, he has no problem at all in having and taking control of the Danes. When you are a Social Democrat, you think you are better able to manage the Danes' lives than the Danes themselves can. It's in Social Democratic DNA. Against this background, I must say that the Prime Minister is an excellent social democrat. As leader of New Citizens, I consider it my most important task to wrest the Danes free from the social democratic claws that move further and further into the throat of the Danes' freedom. The government under Mrs Mette Frederiksen will probably go down in history as one of the worst in that area. The concentration of power often takes place under the guise of a crisis. You grab stronger and stronger grip on the throat of the freedom of the Danes. The Minkskandale and Corona restrictions are the worst examples. Most recently, the Prime Minister has appointed the battle for several windmills to be a battle against Putin's gas, as the Prime Minister puts it. This is a false crisis report, and the Prime Minister knows that too. Europe will not be independent of gas from Russia, although the Prime Minister will now plant an infinite number of wind turbines and involve very large solar installations in the Danish country. On the other hand, it will destroy the private economy, it will ruin everyday life, and it will spoil nature for a great many Danes, who therefore with good reason call out guard in rifle. Instead of taking into account the Danes' concerns, the government, under the guise of the false crisis report, will abolish the Danes' redress options. This is not showing respect for the rule of the people. Has the Prime Minister ever considered whether it was better that politicians decide less and that the Danes are allowed to decide much more for themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426135143	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426135144	In its own way, it is actually very nice that, having been here for more than 20 years, one can still be surprised in the Parliamentary Chamber, but that one stands today and calls it a false declaration of crisis that, because of the crisis in Ukraine, we want to be independent of Putin's gas, I have to say that I did not actually see it coming. And I fully support what not only the government has said, but fortunately a broad majority in the Danish Parliament has also said blue parties: that one of the challenges we have in Europe today is that we are too dependent on Putin's fossil fuels. We should have made ourselves independent of that a long time ago. Several countries should have done as Denmark, namely expand the renewable energy that I understand we disagree about, and Nord Stream 2 should never have been thought or established. Of course we must get rid of Putin's gas and, of course, Putin is a problem for Europe. I can understand that the other day was contradicted by another right-wing politician who believes that there is no problem at all with Russia. Yes, there is a problem with Russia and there is a problem with Putin, and we must be free of gas, of oil and of coal in Europe. Do we need renewable energy to ensure that? Yes, we do. I must say in general terms that I do not want or need to regulate. I was opposed to, for example, for a long time. to raise the price of cigarettes because I was afraid that it would hit socially wrong and because I do not want to interfere with whether people smoke or not. This is one of the areas in which I have to acknowledge that there is also a dilemma, because there are a great many Danes who die every year because of smoking. I have relatives of my own in the field of cancer. It is then a place where we have chosen to say that we are raising the price. Different governments regulate how easy or how difficult it is to smoke in Denmark. It is not really something I want to do, but I also do not want so many people in Denmark to die because of smoking. So sometimes there are some dilemmas that we must try to resolve in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426135346	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426135347	We fully agree that we must get rid of Putin's gas; we must not finance his war machine. But we strongly disagree as to whether the solution is to patch Denmark up with windmills and remove the Danes' right to complain. That is what we disagree on. And we already have today • unfortunately too many wind turbines in Denmark. Danish wind turbine owners are paid to turn off the mills when it blows too much, simply to get rid of the useless power. At the same time, we depend on expensive power that we import when the wind doesn't blow. Wind turbines are and can be a good addition to a total electricity supply, but when the share gets too large, the system becomes too unstable. And today it is reflected in large fluctuations in prices. In the future, if you let the share of wind current increase further, it can get even worse in the form of definite power outages. Is the Prime Minister as technologically frightened as the Minister for Climate, or is there a light at the end of the tunnel that might cause the Prime Minister to consider including nuclear energy in Danish energy planning, if only for the sake of energy supply?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426135503	Thank you. Then it's the PM, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426135504	So what the Danes have to decide on, I understand, is whether you would rather have some wind turbines or a nuclear power plant. And I understand that some people think windmills are ugly. Actually, I don't think they're ugly, but some people think so. And I fully agree that there may be some local discussions in relation to where they should be put. But I would actually like to take up this challenge, so that we ask the Danes whether they would like to have a nuclear power station where they live or whether they would like a windmill. As far as I am concerned, I would rather not know how many wind turbines than I would like a nuclear power station where we cannot be sure of safety. And then we may also have to point out that this is not the answer to the challenges we face, because it takes so long to build, and I do not have that time. I have no patience over the fact that we will not be free of Putin's gas for many, many years. I think we should get rid of Putin's gas as quickly as possible in Denmark and in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426135606	Mrs. Pernille Vermund for the last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426135608	7 years it was the average time to build nuclear power plants by 2020. The government has planned an energy island that will probably not be completed until sometime in 2030, perhaps in 2032, and which will not bring us to the goal at all. I'm just saying that to get it straight. So, unfortunately, the Prime Minister is just as technologically frightened as our climate minister, and that is too bad. Let me move on to something completely different. We have an inflation rate which, according to economists, is due to the long-standing relaxed monetary policy of the central banks. And now the Prime Minister believes that the war in Ukraine is the cause. Then there is another crisis that the Prime Minister can show decisiveness against the backdrop of other people's money. There must be even more unfunded subsidies in circulation for special groups, which the government believes have earned it, and at the expense of all the other Danish families, which then have to purse out. If you're a full-time schoolteacher couple with gas guys and an explosive gas bill, there's nothing. If you are a couple where one is part-time, but with district heating and less heavy bills, there are 6,000 DKK. tax-free into the account sometime after the summer break. Can the Prime Minister explain why it is so much better for the Prime Minister to appoint groups to be given money rather than to relax taxes and taxes in general and to lower public spending?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426135722	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426135723	I would like to see pensioners who only have their old-age pension and an old-age check as a more vulnerable group than others. That's where we disagree. I'd like to arrest what's being said between the lines. The economic policy pursued under Corona and Covid-19 was the right economic policy. I know that new citizens have been against parts of it, at least quite a lot of the time. But if we just make up our minds where we stood when we were on our way out of the covid-19 and, by the way, as one of the first countries in the world or in Europe at least could lift all restrictions, and before the war in Ukraine hit us, indeed, there we had the lowest unemployment rate for 13 years and the highest growth for 27 years. It was a higher growth than under bourgeois governments and the highest employment ever. How, though, can it be said that this is a bad economic policy? After all, it is economic policy that means that a great many people are at work. So the indictment that we were pursuing the wrong economic policy along the way in Covid-19 has been refuted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426135830	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then we move on to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426135837	Thank you. I would actually like to say a few words about why the economic policy pursued by the government today is economically irresponsible. It is in relation to the enormously high inflation that we are seeing right now, which undermines the private economy of many Danes and which is higher than for many, many years. Unfortunately, we see that producer prices have increased even more than inflation so far is. So there is also evidence that we have not seen the worst yet in terms of inflation. This is something that is difficult to deal with politically. There are, however, some things we can do to dampen inflation while helping the Danes to increase their room for manoeuvre so that they can pay their bills. There are three things we can do. One is that we can curb public spending, because increased public spending leads to increased inflation. The second thing we can do, if we want to strengthen the Danes' economy and help them to pay some bills, is to give tax cuts broadly, either unbureaucratically or with these bureaucratic cheques, but the crucial thing is to find funding. If you run it without funding, as the government proposes, it will, as the economic wise men say in many media today, only increase inflation, that is, what the government and the Prime Minister have proposed. That is the second thing we can do. The third thing is to make reforms that increase labour supply so as to alleviate the pressure on the Danish labour market and on wages in relation to inflation. So that's the three things we can do. But the government is doing exactly the opposite in all three areas. Public spending increases; it increases inflation. The cheques given to Danes are financed in goose eyes with increased debt; this increases inflation. And you do not have a policy that really increases labour supply; it increases inflation. So I am very, very concerned about the trend we are seeing now, with rising inflation, and I am very, very concerned that government policy just makes worse. So I really want to start by asking whether the Prime Minister shares my concern that we have not seen the worst yet with inflation, but also with regard to the fact that the policy being pursued by the government right now is actually only creating even more inflation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140036	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140038	Yes, I agree that we can look into something even worse and even more difficult. It is worth emphasising, I think, that the inflation we are experiencing right now is, after all, the result of some global trends. It is not on the basis of it, it can be said, of domestic economic policy. It is largely the result of the rise in energy prices, which has been reinforced by the war in Ukraine, and it is in fact due to the fact that two crises meet each other: the covid-19 and the war in Ukraine. There were already delays on quite a number of supply chains. When it comes to what we are experiencing because of the war in Ukraine, we now see an inflation in Europe that we have not seen in quite many years. I also agree that one should be very, very careful about how much one steps on the accelerator when there is inflation. In fact, you can quickly make the problem worse. That is why the right thing would not be to give tax cuts for a huge amount of billions, because that would certainly reinforce inflation even more. That is why we think the right thing to do is to give targeted help to those who have the most difficulty. But you do not hear the government suggest that we send much more money into circulation, because that will not be the right response to the economic challenge we face, because we do not have a demand crisis, we have a supply crisis. Therefore, our tools must be different from those we used in the situation we were in a short time ago because of the covid-19.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140206	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140208	The Prime Minister says some things that are right, but also some things that are wrong. Let's start with what's wrong first. It is wrong to say that tax cuts in themselves will increase inflation. If tax relief is fully financed through less public spending, it will not increase inflation. It will only help the Danes in their daily lives. The economic wise men have made that clear, just as the economic wise men are today saying that it is not true when the Prime Minister says that it does not increase inflation with the targeted aid. It increases inflation because it is not funded. It is true that it is global trends that cause high inflation, but the current government policy helps to strengthen inflation, and I think that is worrying. I am glad that we in the Liberal Alliance have a different policy. We have presented our 2035 plan this weekend with lower public spending, which dampens inflation and with significant labour supply reforms. It was there, moreover, that the Prime Minister was right about the fact that it is a supply crisis, so there is a need for increased labour supply. It alleviates inflation and the tax cuts we give so that Danes can pay their bills are financed so that it does not increase inflation. I could then see in Berlingske today that the finance rapporteur of the Social Democratic Party called our policy 'economic madness driving'. No one, of course, is committed beyond one's abilities, but one has to admit that it is government policy that is economic madness and it increases inflation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140317	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140318	What we agree on is the need for continuous reform, so that we strengthen the Danish economy structurally and ensure that even more people enter employment. That is why I have today also announced a 2030 plan that will come after the summer, where we will be laying the track for the future and necessary reforms of the Danish economy. But it would not be more fair if I had to ask the question in this way, to say to the Danes what a small public consumption of 10%. Because that would mean massive welfare losses and huge savings on the elderly, and I do not see where you can save on the elderly in Denmark, on the contrary. In fact, I do not think that it has the quality it should have everywhere. That would certainly mean huge savings on children and on young people. After all, we just had a bourgeois government that cut down on education. Then it was good that there was another majority who wanted to invest in education. I would recommend continuing with that. It could also be huge savings in health. But where? But where?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140421	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140424	I do not think that the Prime Minister is really concerned about the fact that the policy pursued by the government is aggravating inflation, and I think that is deeply worrying. I'm not worried about the Prime Minister, nor am I; we're gonna be okay with the transport paid and high wages and something like that, so we're gonna be okay. But ordinary Danes will be hit by this if the government doesn't change economic tracks. Then it is true that it is not because there are all good choices to make. So, you can say to the Danes: we do not want to reduce public spending, ergo citizens must lower their private consumption. One could say that the state and the system are more important than the citizens. But we can also say that we do not want to ask the Danes to reduce their private consumption significantly, and that is why we are reducing public consumption, possibly to use it for tax cuts. That is an opportunity, and I think that is the responsible way forward. And I am really just glad that there is a camera on today, because at least now I have clearly warned the Prime Minister that the policy you are pursuing is increasing inflation, and I think it is irresponsible. I would just like to end by hearing the Prime Minister now that a 2030 plan has been notified after the summer: Will the 2030 plan significantly increase the supply of labour or reduce public spending or lead to a new principle in the government that spending is being financed? Because then I think it's a little light in the dark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140525	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140527	I know there's always a camera on there when we meet in the Assembly Hall, so I guess it's not new in itself. Compared to what is happening outside the individual elderly in our society, the system: is that a fair explanation? I mean, if you want to cut 10%. of our welfare society, it will mean translated into ordinary Danish • huge savings in the area of the elderly, huge savings on children and young people, and I am against that. I disagree that it is people with disabilities or our children or our older people who have to pay such a high price, probably because I am a Social Democrat. But when I come around and visit our older sector in Denmark, I can't see that you can just cut 10%. of, without that it will mean huge deterioration. Then I'll arrest what's being said. When we have inflation in Denmark today, it is primarily due to global trends. Inflation has come back in Europe because of what is happening in Ukraine and because of what is happening globally, which is, at least in part, depending on what happened because of the covid-19. Then we have proposed making targeted aid, but at the same time we say that there are limits to how high we can go up, in order not to adversely affect inflation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140632	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. We're moving on, and now it's sir. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140642	Thank you for the floor, President. Thank you, Prime Minister. The Prime Minister was red before the Prime Minister was green. Then the Prime Minister had a revelation, and then you could read that the Prime Minister is now green before the Prime Minister is red. And, of course, we in the Free Greens are very pleased about this, because that means that the green always comes first. How, then, does that position relate to the government's proposal for a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140727	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140729	Now, in fact, I have never experienced a revelation, but allow me to become wiser as a human being, and I can also see that we have now, for three years now, disproved what was really my concern when we started this parliamentary term. I was afraid that the very high climate ambitions would put themselves in an excessive inequality, that too many companies would not be able to be in Denmark and that unemployment would rise. And, of course, it is because I am a socialist that I have that fear, because it is of course not much worth being able to do anything on climate if it means that ordinary people lose their jobs. And I must be so honest as to say that it is not the benefit of the Free Greens, because we are often outside the political agreements, but other parties, together with the government, have shown that we can both in Denmark. We have succeeded in reconciling the green and the red, perhaps in reality with the blue, because we now have a higher employment than ever before. We have a strong Danish economy, unemployment is very, very low, and we have some of the world's highest climate ambitions. So it's not a revelation. It is an experience built up over 3 years that it is possible to do both. I do not think that a green tax reform should mean that a lot of Danish companies should leave Denmark. I believe that our objective should be to ensure the necessary green transition while ensuring employment and competitiveness. That is the goal. There are, of course, some companies which find it harder to adapt than others, and there are companies which emit more CO2 than others.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140919	Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426140920	I mean, once you've given Aalborg Portland this pollution discount, you can't say you're green until you're red. In fact, the Prime Minister is blue. I hope that the Prime Minister can see that ordinary citizens find it creepy to make a proposal for a CO2 Add to it that the Prime Minister has said that the Prime Minister will cling to Aalborg Portland and will not let Aalborg Portland close. The company is in the Prime Minister's constituency, and now the company has been out to say that it supports social democracy and social democratic candidates. When we then say: OK, now we have admitted it ourselves, and now we want to know in the name of democracy who we have supported and how much we have supported, we are told from here that the Prime Minister will not respond to it. Then the Prime Minister must understand that people think it is creepy and that there is no pure flour in the bag.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426141032	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426141034	There is nothing creepy about this and, as I understand it, it is of course up to a very, very large contribution in the forthcoming tax reform to be paid by, among others. Some of the companies that have a large CO2 but it is actually incomprehensible to me that you can call yourself left and not care if people have a job. How did things take that development? Well, there was a time when people belonging to the political left in Denmark were concerned about whether people had a job so that they could support themselves and have something to stand up for in the morning. Why did it fall out of the left-hand equation? How can you not care if there are enough jobs in our country when what is most important for people outside these walls is whether they have a job to stand up to? I think that we should perhaps consider going from standing outside and criticising everything all the time to going to the negotiating table in respect of our people's rule and our democracy and helping to find the solutions that make it possible for us both to ensure the green transition, that we achieve the climate ambitions, but then in such a way that there is still work to be done for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426141138	Sikandar Siddique for the last round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426141140	In Free Greens, we are cultivating meaningful life, not workers'ism. And it should also be fun to go to work. Now I'd like to change paths. During this year's Ramadan, we have again seen the Israeli regime attack innocent civilians inside and outside the sacred Al-Qaida Mosque in Jerusalem. More than 200 civilian Palestinians, including children, women and men, have been injured since 15 April. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister condemns the Israeli attacks on civilian Palestinians.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426141213	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426141215	First of all, I have to answer the second, because what is a meaningful life if you do not have an economy if you do not have a job? After all, we cannot build a welfare society on the fact that we do not want to work. Excuse me, who thinks the questioner is paying the nurses' salaries or for the scan to make sure the cancer patient survives? Danes go to work. We cannot have a welfare society, and we cannot ensure a green transition, and we cannot fight inequality, and we cannot ensure equal opportunities for our children if there are not enough Danes who every day are getting out of bed every night or night or morning and think: The most important thing is that I have a job so I can support myself and my family, and so I can pay taxes and contribute to this society. It is dangerous thinking if it starts to sit down, that it is not important that we can finance the welfare society. And those who lose in it are the most disadvantaged in our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426141313	Thank you. Then the question is over and the question time is over. I have called the vote, but there are approx. Five minutes before we can start voting. So there's gonna be a short break.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426141809	We'll resume the meeting. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 170 (Proposal for a law amending the law on social pensions, law on the highest, middle, increased general and ordinary early retirement, etc.) and the Act on Active Employment. Bill No. L 171 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Temporary Family Allowances of Certain Parents). In this context, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty (now, after amendment, Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (now, after amendment, Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (now, after amendment, Article 108 (3) of Bill No. L 173 (Proposal for a law amending the law on unemployment insurance, etc., the Law on sickness benefits and the Law on maternity leave. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and Pia Kjærsgaard (DF): Request no. F 55 (How will the government ensure that the organisation Antidote Denmark can continue its important work of distributing and instructing the use of nasal spray with naloxone that can save people from dying of an overdose when Antidote Denmark's grant expires by the end of 2022, and will the government make nasal spray with naloxone available over the counter, as it is in Scotland, France and Italy, so that the product can be disseminated to even more?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Lotte Rod (RV) and Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) have informed me that they want to withdraw the following proposals: Proposal for a Parliament resolution on state guarantee provision in the establishment and conversion of free nursery and leisure homes. B 117). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426141920	The item listed as No. 11 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. That is why we must vote on the approval of this paragraph. There shall be, cf. Paragraph 42, three-quarters majority of the Rules of Procedure for such consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426141942	The consent may be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of 101 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG), Naser Khader (UFG) and Susanne Zimmer (UFG), against 0, abstentions 0. The consent is granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426141959	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142042	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 71 by Peter Skaarup (DF), Bjørn Brandenborg (S), Preben Bang Henriksen (V), Britt Baker (KF) and Pernille Vermund (NB), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 74 votes (S, V, KF, DF, NB, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG) and Naser Khader (UFG), against 27 abstentions (SF, RV, EL and FG). Proposal for adoption No V 71 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 72 by Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF) and proposals for adoption No. V 73 of Rosa Lund (EL) and Samira Nawa (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142135	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 70 of Lotte Rod (RV), Ida Auken (S), Ulla Tørnæs (V), Astrid Carøe (SF), Bruno Jerup (EL), Gitte Willumsen (KF) and Alex Ahrendtsen (DF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. For voting 99 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, LA, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG) and Naser Khader (UFG), against voting 2 (NB), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 70 adopted. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142229	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142242	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 99 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, LA, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG) and Naser Khader (UFG), against 0, abstentions 2 (NB). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142302	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142317	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 54 (S, SF, RV, EL and FG) voted against 46 (V, KF, DF, NB, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG) and Naser Khader (UFG), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142339	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142402	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 adopted by the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142411	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142416	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 101 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG) and Naser Khader (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142435	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142449	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. For voting 99 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, LA, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG) and Naser Khader (UFG), against voting 2 (NB), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142509	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142522	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and the vote shall end. In favour, 101 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG) and Naser Khader (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142542	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. There will be a short break so that we can empty the Chamber of those who do not want to take part in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142756	The debate is open. And the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426142825	Thank you. This bill proposes amendments to various parts of the legislation to ensure the best possible conditions for Ukrainian refugees. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that here in the Folketing and in the Danish society in general we must do the best we can to ensure that Ukrainians thrive during their stay in this country. We have to deal with a lot of pressure and we have to deal with a lot of pressure in a very short time. That is why it is proposed, among other things, that we should: with the bill that municipalities should continue to be able to offer accommodation and catering to Ukrainians while awaiting response to their application for stay under the special law. In addition, it is proposed that municipalities should be given the opportunity to assign Ukrainian refugees to temporary or permanent residences in vulnerable residential areas. It is also proposed that building legislation should be able to be waived when a municipality temporarily uses premises for day-to-day services, schools and the like to house Ukrainian refugees. It is proposed to extend the access of municipalities to suspend the deadlines for different integration offers. In other words, it gives the municipalities greater flexibility when they have to receive many Ukrainian refugees in a very short time. The bill also proposes to extend the circle of people that the municipal council can approve as a suitable network care family to an inhabiting Ukrainian refugee child. It is also proposed to ensure that virtual education and a derogation from language requirements for Ukrainian refugees will be possible in the area of the Ministry of Children and Education. Finally, it proposes amending the Health Act and introducing a new authorisation clause so that resources and certain rights for Ukrainian refugees can be adapted on an ongoing basis. Social democracy supports the bill. And I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143007	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. And it is noted with the greeting from the Radical Left, and I can see that there is a request for a brief remark from Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143017	Thank you. I should just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur whether it does not give a little bit of food for thought that, in order to give the good treatment to Ukrainian refugees, which we all want to do, we need to change, I do not know how many legal complexes so that this can happen. If it doesn't give a little bit of food for thought, how tight a policy of aliens you have actually made, how many legholds you have set up to make life awkward for people on the run, that we now have to make a special law to make exceptions to all the legholds that, among other things, are. The rapporteur's own party has been involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143059	The short answer is that no, it does not give any food for thought. But I'd like to elaborate on it a little bit. Because I have 57 seconds left and I can say that the difference between the situation we are in now and the situation we are in, for example. last time there was a major refugee disaster, you know that in 2015 and 2016, plus/minus 20,000 people arrived over a few years, while there was potentially going to be up to 100,000 people in a few months, and this puts a huge pressure on the systems everywhere in the welfare state, which means that you now have to introduce all kinds of exceptions. In fact, I think it can be said that it is not as clear as Mrs Rosa Lund is trying to draw a picture of, because in reality much of this is also a question of extending some deadlines in relation to not getting as good a service as refugees have normally done, at least not initially during their stay in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143154	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143156	So let me try to make it less clear, sir. Rasmus Stoklund. With this bill, we are giving a better opportunity to receive mother tongue lessons in Ukrainian for refugee children, because it is the agreement made in the Ministry of Children and Education that it is good for children to get lessons in their mother tongue. Well, then I'll just have to ask sir. Rasmus Stoklund: What makes it particularly good for Ukrainian children, but not so good for Afghan children or Syrian children?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143228	After all, we are here in the slightly special situation that it is now actually a group of refugees who have a strong desire to return to their country of origin. Often we have had a different type of problem in the foreign debate and in the debate on refugees, where people have had a very strong desire to stay, and here, therefore, both on the part of many Ukrainians themselves, but also on the part of the Ukrainian Ambassador, there has been a strong desire to maintain a strong Ukrainian identity and to have education. A teaching portal has been established from the Ukrainian side so that all the students who had to flee here in a short time can continue to receive teaching in their own language, and I think that we should do all we can to support them in their hopes that they will soon be able to return to their homeland. When is none of us gonna know?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143312	The next brief remark is to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143317	I just took the floor because I think it is remarkable that the rapporteur believes that Ukrainian families want to return to Ukraine when, hopefully, there will be peace, but no one else does. Or how is that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143333	But it is surely no secret that many of the Syrians have had the opportunity to return to Syria, who have no strong desire to return to Syria. Well, it's pretty widely known if you read newspapers every day. So that is what it is, and I think it is positive that the Ukrainians are making this attitude, and I also think it is an important signal to send to Putin that he should not think that he can drive a people out of a European country and then take over the country in that way. And that is a parallel story to what happened in the former Yugoslavia at the end of the 1990s, when part of the reason why a special law was made for Kosovo Albanians was the same, in other words to ensure that Milosevic would not succeed in pushing a population away and then be able to take over an area himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143419	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143420	No, of course you do not want to return to a country like Syria that is not safe, just as Ukrainians do not want to return to Kharkiv or Mariupol or anywhere else in Ukraine until it is safe. Well, I guess it gives itself. And in relation to the historical references one might ask whether anyone would like to return to a Syria where there are also all sorts of historical reasons why there is uncertainty. So, is it only Ukrainians who want to return to a safe Ukraine, and no other people want to return to their home countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143501	I do not know why Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen keeps talking about everyone and nobody and something like that, because nobody has said that. But there are plenty of Syrians who have returned to Syria over the last few years. From Denmark there are 100 Syrians a year who voluntarily go home to Syria because there are also 100 Syrians in Syria. Damascus and Rif Damascus have been quite stable for years now, there have been no acts of war, and in addition, according to the UN, there are 130 000 Syrians who have returned from the vicinity. Then it is a fact that there are plenty of Syrians who can return to Syria and that there are parts of Syria where there are stable, and then there are other parts of Syria that are not stable and that cannot be returned to, and the world may be a little more complex than Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen caricatured before.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143537	There is a request for a brief comment on Mrs Krarup, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143543	Thank you. I am very sympathetic to the fact that we must of course grant asylum to Ukrainians; they are our immediate area, they are a Christian neighbouring people. However, I am a little concerned that no more has been done about repatriation procedures. Because, of course, these Ukrainian homes need to be brought home as soon as possible, and I hear that the rapporteur assumes that too. But there are not really any concrete provisions in the law, not in it, for which we have already voted, nor in this supplement, as far as I understand, to be sure that it will be implemented. Is the rapporteur sure that there is sufficient certainty that the Ukrainians will return as soon as it is possible to return to Ukraine?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143633	It's hard to answer, because none of us know how this war is going to develop. After all, there are parts of Ukraine to which Ukrainians have already begun to return, and there are other parts of Ukraine where violent fighting is taking place and there is absolutely no return. It is my clear impression that the Ukrainians, both those who come here and also their authorities, represented by the ambassador here in Denmark, have a strong desire for them to return. But it is true that it is not part of this legislation. I also believe that we must be honest and say that right now it is a question of finding urgent and practical solutions to the current problem of accommodation and education and all the things where we have to depart from the legislation that is already in place. And then I do not think this is the last time we have passed legislation here in the Folketing which concerns Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143723	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143725	Thank you for your answer. In other words, it may not be possible to include it in the present law, but it must be necessary to adopt legislation on the return of these refugees as well. Because we must not repeat the mistakes we have made in the past, where refugees have remained in the country without problems. I would say that Ukrainians are different, they will probably be more easily integrated into Denmark, but it must still be the case that asylum is a temporary stay as long as there is war in one's country of origin. So it must be necessary to adopt some rules so that we can be absolutely sure that this will happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143808	However, it can be said that Parliament will automatically have to take a position on the question of just under two years when the residence base that has been made now expires. This is part of the law we made in March, and I think it is just too early for us to anticipate now when people can return home because there is so much uncertainty about that war.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143838	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143841	Thank you. Yes, but it was perhaps mostly a rather leading question, but it is also possible to do so in connection with Enhedslisten and SF's rapporteur. So, is it really not much to think that the fact that they want to return to their country of origin, in this case, is opposed to those who come from Africa and the Middle East? These are women and children, and could one not have a clear feeling that they will very, very much want to return to their husbands as quickly as possible, to their fathers and to their sons who have remained in Ukraine and are fighting for their country?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143918	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143919	It is my clear feeling that we are meeting here a little different mentality and a different desire to come back than we have been used to when many refugees have arrived in Denmark. I think that is right, and I also think that some of what shows it is that we can see how many of the Ukrainians who have fled Ukraine prefer to stay in Poland because they want to be close to their family members. Often it is the men who are then home to fight Putin's troops. So I think it is true that there are a lot of people who have a very strong desire to come home as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143950	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426143952	I very much agree with that, and Poland is perhaps not the same welfare society as Denmark, for example. are, and yet they want to be there. There is clearly a different view. I think it might as well be said bluntly. It is not only our immediate area, but there is a different view of things and how they should be. That is just the way it is and against the Middle East and Africa, where men came first and wives and children were then brought to Denmark. Here it is quite the opposite, and of course it is quite obvious that you would prefer to be where your male family members are.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426144029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426144031	I very much agree with that. I think there is a slightly different mentality, and you can see it in some of the world value surveys that have been made. On the other hand, it is not the case that when we look at various issues of value relating to democracy and homosexuality and such things, we look like Ukrainians to one, but we are, after all, closer to them than we are to the nationalities from which we have traditionally received refugees from the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426144103	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Mads Birded. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426144117	When the war began a few months ago and Russia began its terrible invasion of Ukraine, we in this House adopted a special law guaranteeing a temporary basis of residence for people displaced from Ukraine as a result of Putin's invasion. I am glad that we did as Parliament and as a country we have acted quickly and helped the Ukrainian refugees with everything we can. We have always preached to help in the vicinity; now the balloon has gone up with us, now we are near, and it is good to see that we can act quickly. I said in my rapporteur's speech on the special law in March that it was an important first step in helping the people fleeing Ukraine. Now we have to take one more step. That's how it's often when you act in haste. The municipalities must have a better framework for fulfilling the great task they face. In the Left, we have constantly worked hard to give municipalities as much flexibility under the special law as possible in the handling of Ukrainian refugees. It is crucial that the municipalities have the necessary tools to help the many displaced persons from Ukraine, and that is what they get with the supplement to the special law here. In our optics, the municipalities play a crucial and central role in solving the challenges we face. This applies both in terms of accommodation and catering, but also in relation to providing a framework for as normal a daily life as possible to the Ukrainian displaced persons, whether this is in the mother tongue, access to family allowances and housing support or treatment in a hospital. With those words, I can say that the Left will vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426144315	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426144327	Thank you. Even now, in Denmark, we are experiencing the consequences of the brutal and cowardly attack put in place by Putin against Ukraine. Several thousand displaced persons have come to Denmark, and although many of us are affected by higher inflation and rising prices, the Ukrainians who are coming to Denmark now are people who have fled from everything they know and own from their homeland, where the vast majority have lived throughout their lives. As a society, we have a duty to and we have a political responsibility in here at Christiansborg to ensure that the people who have come here from Ukraine not only get a good start, but become part of society, whatever it is about starting kindergarten, school or entering the labour market. The fulfilment of those aspirations places particular demands on our society, and the pressure of the many people means that we need to include measures that we otherwise do not want to take, to meet the need for education and to meet the need for accommodation. Therefore, SF supports that we allow municipalities to offer displaced Ukrainian temporary accommodation or permanent housing in vulnerable residential areas. It is far from an ideal solution, but it is necessary if the number of Ukrainians in Denmark is increasing, as all the evidence suggests. The same applies to the possibility of virtual education and a derogation from the language requirements for the many children whose future we must try to restore as much as possible. It is a very high priority for the SF that these children come back to a daily life of play and learning without having to worry about Russian bombs and destruction, and that we try best to give them back the future that they have been robbed. So the SF supports the proposal that lies here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426144513	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426144533	Thank you. This is a bit at risk of repeating myself, but that's the way it is, because I said the same thing when we dealt with the special law on temporary residence permits for Ukrainians. That law showed exactly how wrong things are in Denmark with foreign policy. I actually think this law that we have today does the same. The need to make a special law and to make special rules illustrates how badly an asylum system we have set up in Denmark, with far too long processes and unreasonable demands on the refugees who come here and with unfair conditions to live under. We have been shouting about this in the Enhedslisten for many years, but it is just as if it suddenly dawned on all other parties that the system has simply been destroyed by the innumerable austerity. Because, of course, people with obvious protection needs should not sit in an asylum centre for several years and to use the Minister's own words to spin around themselves. It doesn't make any sense if you can get them into society right away. Of course, we must be able to send children to school and sick people in the hospital and ensure that they have the opportunity to get to work as soon as possible. There is no doubt that it is better for society as well as for the individual refugee. As the Minister himself indicated in connection with the special law, it does not serve any purpose to let people sit in an exit centre and look into the wall. The adjustments we are making to the legislation now are a predictable consequence of the urgency of the first special law. Because when it's all going so fast, you obviously miss a lot of issues. It is, of course, also good that we are getting the law right today so that it fits in with the reality of the world, but I would like to reiterate my point from before: it would not be necessary at all to adopt special legislation and subsequent adjustments if our law on foreigners actually made sense. Then we could follow the rules in it. It is not only the law on foreigners that makes no sense here. For a majority of us in this House have, of course, been trying to tighten up the rules so many times that we now have to change the rules on language requirements, in the primary school law, in housing policy, in labour market policy, in fact all the places where rules have been laid down and tried to make life as difficult as possible for people on the run. After all, these are the rules that we must now make exceptions to. A good example, I think, is the law on parallel societies, which has led to housing being demolished throughout the country. I guess it's nice functional housing that's being demolished right now. In principle, this law also prevents Ukrainians from being able to move into our general residential areas. In fact, it is precisely the Ukrainian refugees for whom we are standing with one hand right now and cannot find accommodation. So what do we do with the other hand? We rip excellent homes down in Vollsmose in Odense. That doesn't make any sense at all. If we did not have a discriminatory and superfluous ghetto law, we would not have had to change it now either. In addition, we have also had hundreds of family homes at our disposal in which the Ukrainians could have moved if these had not already been removed. But perhaps, in the interests of the climate in particular, we should change that legislation so that we do not continue to remove suitable housing from the ground. The Enhedslisten supports this bill, but I would like to say that I hope it gives cause for thought to all other parties. That must be the case, as Enhedslisten does, because we want to help all people on the run. I just cannot understand why it is only important for Ukrainian children to receive mother tongue teaching. I think this is also important for children from Afghanistan or Somalia. I believe that all refugees want to return to their homeland as soon as there is peace and as soon as they have the opportunity. That is why I do not think we should make any difference. But when we in the Enhedslisten nevertheless support the bill, it is because we want to help as many people on the run as possible, and we believe that this bill sets the example of how all people on the run should be treated in Denmark. That is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145020	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund and the Enhedslisten. No, there was still a request for a brief comment. In any case, I give the floor to Mr Seligman. Lars Barfoed Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145039	It is just because the rapporteur says that you want to help everyone who is fleeing. Does the rapporteur not think that there should be a limitation on how many people can come here and get asylum? I mean, it was Mrs Rosa Lund who said herself that we must help everyone, and I didn't think so. I understand if you have a political desire to help many or as many people as possible, but the rapporteur said that was true of everyone. And I would point out that there are 80 million people on the run right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145103	Actually, I think I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathisen, that there are more than 80 million people on the run right now. I believe that this war in Ukraine has led to a significant increase in the number. I am well aware that Denmark cannot house all the refugees in the world or help everyone, but I believe that we must help everyone we can. And right now, some refugees live in Denmark who do not receive the same good treatment as Ukrainian refugees. I think they should have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145129	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145131	I heard the rapporteur mention earlier that people should not be sent back to Syria. But does the rapporteur not also agree that it is not politicians who send people back to Syria? It is the authorities that have made some decisions • sometimes it is the right decisions, and sometimes you may think that the decisions taken are wrong. And sometimes you also have the opportunity to appeal against those decisions. So sometimes they're right, and sometimes they're wrong. But that is not politically decided. We have isolated authorities which make decisions where lawyers and judges sit and make an assessment. In other words, should we get away from the system that it is independent authorities that make an assessment of whether it is safe for people to go home?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145215	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen knows very well that the authorities are making decisions on the basis of the legislation we are making in here. And there it is now the case that if we did not have the paragraph of the Aliens Act, which is paragraph 7, paragraph 7. 3, then there would be far more people from Syria and Afghanistan who would be given quite different residence permits that would look quite different. So I'd like to say to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that I am quite much in favour of having a system with a court-like authority. I appreciate that, but I believe that the court-like authority administers according to some rules that I fundamentally disagree with. And there it is my job as an elected parliamentarian to question that legislation. And I do, I'll say, and I think there's more in this room who can sign on to this platform pretty often.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145257	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145300	Thank you. Well, I actually noticed the same thing, that we had to help all refugees. That was just before I said what? Lars Boje Mathisen the one before me. But Mrs Rosa Lund also says that we need to help as many people as we can. And there we have very, very often urged the red wing of the Folketing, including the Enhedslisten, to say: Well how many? Well, it's really easy to hurl out, and that sounds like too many sympathetic. But how many? Well, 80+ million. But how many? I mean, you must have thought about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145340	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard can certainly believe that we have had some thoughts about ■ in fact quite a lot. Now it is the case that you cannot put a figure on it because Denmark has signed the UN Convention on Refugees ■ actually as one of the first countries in the world. I'm proud of that. But that also means that we cannot do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145403	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145404	So that's 80+ million again. That must be the answer. And it doesn't add up. Well, it doesn't. 80+ million, as Mrs Rosa Lund herself said, Ukrainians and perhaps many others. I just have to say that the answer is still blowing away in the wind, and it's gonna keep doing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145423	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145424	Well, I think that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard as well as I know that there is no room for 80+ million refugees in Denmark. I have not heard anyone in this Chamber argue for that either. I'm just saying that we signed the refugee convention. I appreciate that, and I think we should stand by and keep doing that. There are then some refugee groups on which I would like to put a figure. I think that the government should take 2 000 quota refugees from the United Nations quota refugee system. We're behind; right now we're taking just under 200. I think that's too little. We stopped taking them when Mrs Inger Løjberg became Foreign Minister in 2015, so I think we owe it on that front. That's where I think we could take 2,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145501	Then there was a request for a brief comment from Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145505	Thank you. It is because I think that Mrs Rosa Lund will once again involuntarily expose the hypocrisy of Enhedslisten's immigration policy. What about number one? 2,001? What are the arguments that Mrs Rosa Lund will use against refugee No. 2.001, when Mrs. Rosa Lund has agreed to the first 2,000? Because that would be the same type of argument as the rest of us, where we would just put the bar somewhat lower to try to take care of the cohesion force and try to make integration work. Mrs Rosa Lund is not worried about that. But what are the arguments that will be put forward? What is it that makes that no. 2,001 so must stay in a war zone or where it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145542	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145544	Well, that was the funniest thing that Mr. Rasmus Stoklund was supposed to say that it was Enhedslisten's immigration policy that was hypocritical. Well, I think this is an exciting day. I wish this debate would continue all day. To answer the rapporteur's question, I would like to say that this is precisely why we cannot set a figure, so that we cannot say, as a country which has signed the UN Convention on Refugees, that we want to take three refugees from this country and seven refugees from this country. That is exactly what the rapporteur himself says: what is being said about the next. However, I would still like to say that I think we can put a figure on the quota refugees and that, if it were on the Enhedslist, I would also wish we could say 5 000 or 7 000. But Mr. Rasmus Stoklund knows as well as I do that this is not where the discussion is. After all, the discussion is not between us whether we should take 2.001 or 2,000. The discussion is probably closer between my own party and the rapporteur's party on whether we should even take more than the just under 200 quota refugees we are taking today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145645	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145648	But that only makes hypocrisy even clearer. For this then underlines that the whole foundation of Enhedslisten's policy in terms of refugees is that by far most of the world's refugees have no chance of financing a trip to Scandinavia, and that it is therefore very convenient for Enhedslisten that it is a number who are able to get here and knock on the door themselves, or that these are the relatively low numbers that are referred to as quota refugees. For if all those over 80 million refugees could come, then the logic of the Enhedslisten should be that they should all be here. But Enhedslisten is never willing to stand by his own policy in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145724	This is the first time I have heard in my time as rapporteur for foreigners that Enhedslisten should have a convenient foreign policy. In fact, I myself would like to say that I think our foreign policy is quite often anything but convenient, because it is constantly in disarray in this Chamber, among other things. from the rapporteur himself, and this is not about who can afford to finance what. We are talking precisely about the quota refugees, who are exactly the system that we in the Enhedslist would like us to take much more advantage of in Denmark, that we took far more quota refugees. But the rapporteur's party is not prepared to do so. Now we have to see what will happen if the rapporteur's party's plans to create a reception centre in a third country succeed. There was the second half of the promise, after all, that the number of quota refugees would increase. But you forgot, it seems a little.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145811	There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, so thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426145821	Thank you, President. I hope this gets a little quieter. In any case, we welcome the bill here. A large part of the proposal has already been negotiated in various ministries, where Conservatives and a wide range of parties have supported it. The common denominator for the many different proposals included is, of course, to create better and more flexible conditions for the many Ukrainians whom we welcome here in Denmark. I would actually have summarized the various parts of the draft law, but rapporteurs have done so before me in the past. They range across the residential and educational areas, the municipal area, etc. I would just like to emphasise once again that the situation we are facing is unique and that, of course, it requires unique measures, whether it is that Ukrainian children can have distance learning, among other things. in Ukrainian from home, that municipalities can make the best use of housing, access to hospital, labour market, etc. Of course, we support that. That does not mean that this bill solves all the many problems that have arisen with the situation we are facing. There I hope that the Minister will also put a great deal of emphasis on the bottlenecks that are in relation to biometrics and to getting a CPR number so that Ukrainians can get into the labour market more quickly. Then the Left has quite sensibly proposed that Ukrainian mothers whose husbands are back in Ukraine and fight against the Russians should not be indirectly penalised on benefits by being put on a benefit, as if their spouse were also in the country. There, of course, we support what the Left has proposed, namely to see whether the benefits can be adjusted for the benefit of Ukrainian mothers. I don't know if this is something we can get into this bill, but I hope the Minister will consider that. In any case, the Left must be very praised for having made that proposal. We also hope that, in addition to this bill, the Minister will look at and have as his priority. Having said that, we support the draft law as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426150013	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426150031	A little week ago, 23,500 Ukrainians had applied for a residence permit in Denmark under the special law adopted by a majority of Parliament on 16 March. It is more than in 2015, which was otherwise a record year. At that time, the Syrian men of young people wandered up the highways. Today, it is mainly Ukrainian women and children who come while their spouses remain in Ukraine to fight. The Danish People's Party was against that special law because it meant that citizens from third world countries with refugee status in Ukraine were also included. We do not want more Muslim immigration in Denmark, even through Ukraine. Having said that, we have always said that we want to help the Ukrainians. We recognise that Ukraine, which has been talked about, is a close area for Denmark, but it all comes with a price. It is not free for Denmark to help the Ukrainians, and although some of them certainly enter the labour market, there are others who will not do so but help, we must. I'm just saying this to point out that there will certainly be some problems along the way. We can't help it. We cannot accommodate more than 20,000 people in permanent homes around Denmark at such short notice. That is where we need to use the opportunities we have. We also agree that Ukrainians may be allowed to move into vulnerable residential areas. The Ukrainians count as third-country nationals, but it is hardly the Ukrainians who are going to make the situation in the country's ghetto regions worse. That, of course, does not solve the problem either. That is why I have also said that we need to look at other options to accommodate Ukrainians. It could be tent camps, it could be pavilion houses. I also know that some municipalities are already prepared to do so. For obvious reasons, the municipalities cannot simply undertake a series of integration measures which they are otherwise obliged to implement under the law. And here I would like to note that the Danish ambassador to Denmark on 22 March told the Danes that we should not start integrating the Ukrainians into Denmark. He wants his countrymen home when there is peace in Ukraine. I know that because he was a little attacked, he may have moderated his statements a little, but the intention was quite clear, and I support that one hundred percent. It is very positive that we are trying to ensure through virtual education, for example, that Ukrainian children are taught in Ukrainian and not just all are locked into Danish school classes. It is not good for them or for the Danish schoolchildren, and certainly not when we talk about the large number that we get. But of course Ukrainians must work in Danish society while they are here, and therefore it is also good if they can get work and support themselves, and there are many good examples. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426150324	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426150333	Thank you. Our normal rapporteur cannot be here today, so I have just promised to take the matter. The war in Ukraine has brought pressure to bear on Denmark. Of course, we have to help them. We in the New Citizen support that we do. Now you want to help by accommodation some of these Ukrainians in vulnerable residential areas. We are not the biggest supporters of this. We have said that it may be necessary, but we also believe that we should first try to find out whether there is a chance of getting them into, for example, a place where they can be found. provincial towns in Jutland. There are a number of mayors who have said that they may have some. It is clear that if the number reaches where it can no longer be done, we must of course be pragmatic and they must have a place to live. I think that in the debate here I have such a flashback for the debate of the 1990s and 00s in the field of foreigners, as if in some parts of the Parliament • especially in the Enhedslisten • recognising that there have been massive challenges with the immigration that we have had from the Middle East and Africa. It is as if it is the same flow of refugees as the one we are experiencing now. Well, you have to live in a completely different world if you equate the two things. This is a completely different situation and that is why, of course, other solutions need to be found. That is why it is natural that there should be a special law to resolve the problem now facing us. We should not be blind to that and close our eyes to it. I have a question that we can also put in writing during the committee procedure, because we are a little surprised that the Afghan interpreters are suddenly included in this legislation. They were not there when the Minister asked for this to be dealt with urgently. I am therefore a little surprised that they have been included in the legislative procedure itself, but it may be that the Minister can explain why that is the case when the Minister comes to the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426150513	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. And as far as I can see, all the rapporteurs who wanted to speak have had it. I can therefore give the floor to the Minister. Welcome to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426150532	Thank you for the floor. Already on 16 March, we adopted the law on temporary residence permits for people who have been expelled from Ukraine. That law makes it possible to make a special effort to those who have been expelled from Ukraine, regardless of whether or not they fulfil the general conditions for residence under the Aliens Act. The law ensured the right conditions for the displaced persons to be able quickly and effectively to continue their lives and actively to be part of Danish society. Although it has not been long since the special law was adopted, a need has already emerged to adapt some of the rules both in the field of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in the fields of other ministries. This is in order to continue to deal with the many displaced persons who are staying in Denmark and to ensure them security, stability and the best possible conditions. This is an extraordinary situation which is constantly changing, and therefore the changes must also take place quickly, and I am therefore pleased that the Danish Parliament has agreed to this speedy examination of the bill. As I said, the bill contains changes to the rules in both my own areas and those of my fellow ministers. The bill provides for the possibility for municipalities to continue to offer accommodation and catering to displaced persons from Ukraine pending a decision on their application for a residence permit. This is in accordance with a political agreement reached on 1 April. The draft law also introduces a legal basis for the municipalities to designate Ukrainians with a residence permit under the special law temporary residences or permanent dwellings located in vulnerable residential areas. We do so in order to support the possibility for municipalities to designate a temporary residence or accommodation for displaced persons from Ukraine after the granting of a residence permit. The draft law also lays down the rules on the transition to municipalities and the rules on the distribution and provision of accommodation to family couples. It is difficult to predict the extent of the influx of displaced persons from Ukraine, so the bill introduces an authorisation clause allowing the Minister to lay down rules for extending the access of municipalities to suspend the requirements for the various integration offers. The draft law also lays down that building legislation may be waived by temporary use of premises for day-to-day services, schools, institutions and the like. The aim is to ensure that temporary daily offers, schools, institutions and the like can be established at short notice and without an application for a building permit, e.g.: in commercial buildings, abandoned schools, hospitals, barracks or abandoned nursing homes. The draft law also provides for the extension of the circle of persons which the municipal council can approve as specifically suitable as a network care family for a particular child or young person who has been granted a residence permit under the special law. This is among other things. to provide proper support and care for the child or young person. It is also recommended that displaced children, young people and adults from Ukraine can be taught in English and Ukrainian and receive distance learning in order to ensure the best conditions for success, whether they can soon return to Ukraine or their stay in Denmark will be of longer duration. With the last few small measures, the bill aims to adapt the rules on housing and family allowances and to allow for the adaptation of health resources and certain rights for displaced persons from Ukraine in the field of health. In conclusion, I am pleased to hear that there is still broad support for the actions we are taking to help displaced persons from Ukraine. And both I and my ministerial colleagues would very much like to be available to answer questions from the Danish Parliament about the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426150908	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments to make, and that is first to Mr Beazley. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426150913	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister would like to answer questions. My question is precisely why there is now a section dealing with the Afghan interpreters as well. This is made which is a special law for those who come from Ukraine, and then it's a little strange that you just sneaked in this with Afghan interpreters, knowing that there may be different views on that particular question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426150936	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426150937	Of course, I heard the rapporteur on the platform, and I also flew a little frantically in my papers to find out exactly what it was all about. Because the general provisions on which this legislation is concerned are, of course, for the displaced persons from Ukraine, and I cannot give a straight answer to what the Afghan interpreters have also been included with, but I would very much like to see a written answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426150959	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151000	Thank you. Because it says two places, both in section 65 and then in section 67, I think it is, so it's on pages 23 and 24, so there the minister can read up on that where the Afghan interpreters have been included. And it did not appear when the Minister asked for urgent treatment of it that they were included, and that is something that has come up after this approval of the request has been obtained, and that is why we wonder why it is inside. So I would very much like a written answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151029	Of course, I'll make sure of that. I don't think there's gonna be much coming out of me just flipping around the bill up here on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151036	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151039	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Council, and above all there is a call, which I think the Minister also heard earlier, in relation to the Ukrainian mothers and the level of benefits they receive, if that is the case, that their husband has remained in Ukraine and is fighting and thus unable to contribute as a spouse. I hope the Minister will take that with him. Then there is a completely different question. From Friday, Ukrainians who had applied for residence through the special law could enter the labour market directly, but there is also a fear on our part that others are using this system to come to Denmark in the hope of entering the labour market, even if you are not really covered by the special law. So can the Minister lift the veil just in rough figures for how many people have sought, who have Ukrainian citizenship, but also how many people have rejected because they do not believe that they live up to the special law?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151127	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151128	That will be in very rough figures, and I would also like to reply to it precisely in a written reply. But it's near 98 or 99 percent. of the decisions that have been taken, which have ended up with a permit so far, and when I look at the distribution of nationality, it is well over 90%, and I dare say over 95%. of those who have been granted a residence permit which are Ukrainian nationals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151157	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151158	Thank you. Of course, I do not expect the Minister to be able to give the figures from here, but it would be good to have both figures reported in this urgent procedure. I have put one of the questions in writing, and normally it takes 14 days to get an answer, but because it is relevant to this urgent legislation, I also hope that the Minister will provide the exact figures on how many people have applied for a work permit, but also how many have applied for a stay under the special law, both Ukrainians, but also those who are not Ukrainians, and those who also do not live up to the category of people who had refugee status in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151230	I can at least reply very quickly to the nationality of those who have received a decision. I have a little more doubts as to whether I will be able to reply very quickly to the nationality of all those who have applied, because that would require a manual examination of many thousands of applications. But if you just take it as a basis among those who have made a decision, then it also gives a very good picture that practically all those who have received a decision have ended up with a permit and that virtually everyone who has received a permit is Ukrainian. It is very few who are not Ukrainian citizens, and for many of them it will be because they have been married to an Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151310	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151313	Thank you. It is, for a rare time, a matter of a slightly more technical nature for the bill. The Minister and I have had enough political discussion, I would say, over the last few months. In relation to this bill and to the bill we were discussing on the special law, it is a little unclear for us to see what that means for the repatriation aid. Well, isn't the reason it says nothing about it that we in the Enhedslist can't find it? Or is it the reason why it doesn't say anything about it, that it doesn't matter here, that these people don't get repatriation? This is a little unclear for us, and we would like the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151357	That's because the people who get a residence permit under this special law are not covered by the repatriation law. So they cannot actually get the bag of money in their hands that other refugees will be able to get if they have obtained a residence permit under the general rule of the Aliens Act. However, this is a discussion which I believe we have for the benefit of and which we also intend to have the Foreign Affairs rapporteurs called for. Because at some point I think it would be appropriate to discuss, not necessarily, whether they should be covered by the repatriation law, but how to ensure that there is an economy for those who want to go back to Ukraine and rebuild their country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151432	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151433	Thank you for a clear answer. Then it's not just because we can't find it in the Enhedslisten. Then I would like to ask the Minister a little bit of the same thing as I asked him. Rasmus Stoklund on: Why is it that the government considers it sensible to give mother tongue lessons to Ukrainian children, but not to other refugee children? Well, I guess there should be the same mindset or set of rules. So, if people are meant not to stay in Denmark, but to go back, and there you think that you have to teach mother tongues, why does this not apply to children from Syria, Afghanistan or Somalia, Iran, and I could go on?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151509	The primary reason for giving the opportunity to teach both children and young people, but indeed adults, in Ukrainian and/or English is, of course, a matter of capacity, that it would be a rather violent task if so many children in such a short period of time were to be included in the ordinary day offer and the ordinary school system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151534	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151550	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Henrik Møller. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151611	Thank you. The bill that we are now considering is the implementation of an agreement concluded by the government with the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Christian Democrats in connection with the 2022 Finance Act. The agreement concerns the costs associated with accidents at work resulting from work-related covid-19 vaccination. Today, the practice is that injuries caused by work-related vaccinations against covid-19 are recognised as accidents at work under the Work Damage Insurance Act when the conditions are met. This means that the compensation for occupational injury and the administration of cases are financed by the employer through the statutory insurance for occupational injury. That practice has a majority in the Folketing decided to change in connection with covid-19 vaccinations because of the exceptional situation we faced during the pandemic. As part of the overall vaccination plan, certain groups of personnel have been recommended vaccination earlier because of their employment or work. This took place in the light of the health authorities' assessment of the need for staff groups to be vaccinated more quickly in order to maintain the manning of critical functions and to reduce the infection in sectors with many particularly vulnerable citizens. Under the agreement, the parties agreed that the State should cover the costs of compensation and administration under the Work Damage Insurance Act for accidents at work resulting from work-related vaccinations against covid-19. Of course we can support this on the part of the Social Democrats. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151749	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to the rapporteur, and so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur from the Left, Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426151810	A total of 13 million vaccine doses have been administered. Almost 4.8 million Danes have been vaccinated with two sticks, and 3.6 million have been re-vaccined with the third plug. Of these, 799 vaccinees or relatives have claimed compensation in the first cases where there is considered to have been a link between the covid-19 vaccine and serious adverse reactions or deaths. It is granted compensation in 18 cases and 545 cases have not yet been settled. In two of the cases, there have been deaths. We recognise that although the vaccines are safe, there will always be a risk of side effects and, in very rare cases, deaths. In Denmark we have a tradition of recognising vaccinations as occupational injuries, and it is a tradition that we support. In the Left, we believe that it is reasonable for employers to avoid the obligation to finance the cost of compensation for occupational injury and that it is the State that is covering the cost, since it is the State that has set up the vaccine programme without employers having any influence on the decision. However, we have a number of comments on the draft law which we would like to discuss in the next committee. On the one hand, there are almost 70 000 reports of suspected adverse reactions related to covid-19 vaccines, and on the other hand, the draft law does not indicate how many of these reports will be covered by the bill, and on the other hand there is another comment on the consultation responses, where DA argues that a time limit may be problematic, not least because there may be new corona outbreaks which are not covered by the bill and that, for example, there may be new corona outbreaks which are not covered by the bill. are health professionals who have received the fourth key and it is unclear whether they will be covered by the scheme. One final comment that we would like to discuss in the next committee is the comment by KL and the Danish Regions that the administration of the bill could be resolved by means of a legal instrument. But as a starting point, the Left believes that this is a good legislative proposal and we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426152010	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is no wish for short remarks to the rapporteur. I look after the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party, but I do not see him. That gives me the floor to the rapporteur from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426152028	Thank you very much. As part of the 2022 Finance Act, we in the Radical Left have agreed that the cost of accidents resulting from work-related covid-19 vaccinations should not be borne by the employer, but by the state. We think that is only fair in a situation where we had corona as an extraordinary situation. On the political side and on the government side, both the social mind and the vaccination were repeatedly called for. And precisely in those cases where it has led to an accident at work and where it has been because of the grant it is perfectly natural that the costs are also borne by the State. That is why the Radical Left supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426152121	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. I look for the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and I do not see him either. On the other hand, I see the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. So welcome to the rapporteur of the Conservatives, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426152150	Thank you. I'm here instead of our employment rapporteur, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, and on the part of the Conservative People's Party, I would like to say that we are very much in favour of this bill. However, we are a little critical of the fact that it will expire on 31 December 2022, because we really do not know if there will be a new corona epidemic in the autumn and we will need vaccinations again. However, overall, we are positive about the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426152218	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. René Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426152232	I can also say on behalf of the Danish People's Party that we are of course positive about the proposal here. What this is all about is that damage caused by work-related vaccinations against covid-19 can be recognised as an accident at work when the conditions are met. And of course they have to be able to. There is no doubt that we were all in a special situation, and I think that the whole of official Denmark was pleased that those who were to care for our very weakest also chose to be vaccinated in relation to the challenges we faced with, with the covid-19. Unfortunately, it has become apparent, fortunately in a few very, very few cases, that it has given rise to some challenges. Of course, we have to step in there, and that is why we can also support the legislative proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426152315	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426152328	Thank you. Overall, this is a fine bill. However, I would like to take the opportunity to raise the criticism and the surprise of employers when they have to report these things automatically if there are corona cases at their workplace, unless the one hundred percent can rule out that it has happened at work. I hope that the Minister will respond to the challenges it can bring. Now is the time for us to make legislation so that it will be useful in the autumn. It's a season virus. There is probably a likelihood that we will have visits of some kind, and as it is now, there are a lot of employers out there who think they are being placed on an unreasonable burden by having to report it here as work-related if it happens at work. So that is a problem. This is not something we have done in the past if you have had the flu or anything else; then that obligation has not been with the employer. And it is now doing so here, and so it creates some inappropriateness and, in my view, an unreasonable heavy burden on business.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426152441	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Well, then, sir. Bent Bøgsted wanted to speak as rapporteur outside the groups. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426152451	Thank you for that, President. The small group of six non-attached Members I represent can support this proposal. It is reasonable that if you have been injured after a vaccination it may be many things that happen when a vaccination doesn't work as it should; it may cause some special side effects so that you can get a replacement. It is then put in as an occupational injury, and in principle I do not think it should be an occupational injury; it may have more to do with the medicine, with vaccination. Whether it is under the Danish Health Service or the Ministry of Health, it should be something about the fact that you have received a wrong vaccination and thus have been injured and must have a compensation there I should not be said, but now it is put in as a work injury. Normally, it is the employer who pays for the occupational injury insurance, but it is not reasonable for the employer to be burdened with the cost of an occupational injury caused by a vaccination which has actually been imposed on the individual person that he or she needs to be vaccinated if he or she is going abroad; there may be countries to which he or she travels, which require vaccination. The fact that an employer has to be burdened with the fact that it is an occupational injury is not reasonable. That is why we think it is right that people should be able to obtain compensation for occupational injury and that we should ensure that the employer does not have to pay, but that it is the State which finances the occupational injury insurance. That's fair and fair. We're a little excited about how many people are coming in the future. Now it's like it's all about ebbing out in Denmark, but elsewhere in the world they're still hard hit by covid-19. We can just see what's happening in China right now. They've always said they weren't hit hard, but now they've got Shanghai shut down completely. However, there are other countries in Europe that are still running tight restrictions and may require vaccinations. Maybe it was a special serum that caused those work injuries. I don't know if it's all the sera you've used. I think it's three or four different people you could be vaccinated with. But it is right and proper that, when you are affected, you as a patient should at least be sure that you can get the compensation you are entitled to, because some people may never be able to return to the labour market, and therefore they would be on the ground if they were not guaranteed. But it would also be unreasonable, as I said, if it were the employer who had to pay for an occupational injury in some circumstances that they had actually been imposed. So it is a good solution that has been found, which our small group of non-attached Members can support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426152824	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no brief comments. Then I give the floor to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Christian Juhl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426152839	Thank you. Thank you for your kindness to the President. This is a necessary proposal as a follow-up to the terrible corona crisis we have had, how many people have been ill for happily shorter periods and where some people have died from the disease. It is, of course, the case that we have just received the survey of occupational injuries from last year. And in fact there are a thousand notifications which, according to the Labour Inspectorate and also the Minister for Employment, can be referred to the corona disease. In fact, there is a sharp increase in the number of reports of occupational injuries just below the corona. I am now not quite sure that it is only corona cases, but it is quite strange that there is such an increase when many people have been sent home. We must have looked at this a little more; we have asked the Minister to explain the figures. But if it turns out that there is, I think, 6,000 more people are referred to with covid-19-sensual injuries, it is quite serious because it is not temporary illness but permanent injuries that people incur when they are at work. I would guess that it is also primarily health professionals who suffer from such a situation. And it cannot be said there that it is because they are health workers; it is because they are at work and have to service us others who have become ill. And there they risk getting some diseases. There is a small problem in saying that it is due to work-related vaccinations. There are many other occupational injuries which must also be covered. It is also a small problem that we say only from 27 December 2020 to 31 December 2022. We don't really know how far this can go. There is something that suggests that we must pay close attention to the fact that there may actually be late damage. And now we have had many other work-related sufferings throughout history, which have only appeared later. We are currently making, what should we call it, a second or third clean-up round after asbestos, which some people said was a wonder drug when it came out, but which turned out to have terrible defects. For example: people can get sick and get lung cancer 30 years after working with asbestos. So I think we should be aware that this legislation can be too temporary if things come up. At least we agree from the Enhedslisten that we will have to look at it if it turns out that the corona period has been worse and gives rise to some diseases that we have not yet seen. But, of course, we support the fact that it is the state that is going in and covering this case, because it is our jobs, and that means that we must also take responsibility for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153146	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. That gives the floor to all the rapporteurs who wanted to speak. And then I can give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153157	Thank you to the rapporteurs for their contributions in this discussion of the bill, which, as several speakers have said, is about the state financing of the cost of occupational injuries resulting from work-related vaccinations with covid-19 during the period from 27 December 2020 to 31 December 2022. Vaccinations against covid-19 occur as a result of the extraordinary situation of a worldwide pandemic. The vaccination programme, together with the general prevention of infection, is one of the most important weapons we have used in the fight against covid-19. The overall social vaccination plan implies that certain groups of personnel have been recommended vaccination earlier than they should otherwise have been vaccinated according to their age. This is partly due to their employment relationship and partly to their duties. It is the opinion of the health authorities that these personnel groups had to be vaccinated quickly in order to maintain the manning of critical functions and to reduce the infection in sectors with many particularly vulnerable citizens. Damages arising from work-related vaccinations against covid-19 may be recognised as accidents at work under the Work Damage Insurance Act when the conditions are met. This is the result of long-term practice in this area. The compensation for accidents at work and the administration of the cases is financed by the employer through the employer's statutory insurance against accidents at work by an insurance undertaking or by the self-insured employer. Due to the exceptional situation and as part of the overall social vaccination plan, the government, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Christian Democrats have agreed that the cost of accidents at work resulting from work-related covid-19 vaccinations is to be financed by the state until 2022. The Agreement is part of the 2022 Financial Law Agreement. The agreement presupposes some changes in the law on occupational injury insurance. The bill we are discussing here today implements the amendments to the law on occupational injury insurance. Once the law has been adopted, the State may finance the costs of occupational injury resulting from work-related vaccinations against covid-19, which have been carried out during the period from 27 December 2020 to 31 December 2022. So with that I would like to thank you for your comments on the draft law and I look forward to a constructive discussion of the proposal in the Employment Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153428	Thank you. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister, and that is only from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153433	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity because what we were talking about is whether the Minister has looked a little more at the guidance which should be there about work-related accidents for corona sufferers. What has been looked at is, after all, this deadline of 1 February, but it is also a problem before the time when companies are faced with these costs. I am glad that we have looked at the future, because it is sensible to do so, also to clean up that system in order not to burden a system unnecessarily with reports that have happened before 1 February. So is this something that the Minister is also looking at or that you want to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153517	As the rapporteur himself says, we have the guidance on the recognition of covid-19-related occupational injuries, and it is being updated. The update is due to the lifting of the restrictions and, of course, also to the fact that the highly contagious Omicron variant has caused it to be very difficult to predict that the covid-19 infection has occurred at work. It has also meant that the employer should not, as a rule, report infection with covid-19 after 1 February 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153549	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153550	My question went on time also before we had the OMicron variant, where we also had other variants, which were also contagious. That's what made it difficult. We can look at the reports that have been made to the Board of Patient Safety, which were supposed to track this, that people were not aware and could not tell where they had been infected, even with early variants. They could have an idea that it could have happened there or there, and therefore it is not reasonable to impose on employers that they should then be able to explain that it has definitely not happened with them, when the individual probably cannot even explain where he thinks it has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153629	At present, we have no plans to change this backwards in time. But I also think it is important to ensure that employers have never had to report all cases of covid-19 infected employees as accidents at work only when an employee who has become ill with covid-19 is assumed to have been infected at work. And it is in those cases that we have asked for and also thought there were reasonable reasons why it was then also reported as an accident at work. But at present there are no plans to do it backwards in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153705	The next brief remark is to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153706	I also think it is at least as important to look forward, and when you make an end date, it is because you have to assume that things are finished, at least in our country. But there are people who work in the world. I have heard of a country in Africa where the percentage of vaccinees is down to 10%, which means that the infection is extremely high. Let us say that there is a fitter coming out there who probably needs to be vaccinated from home and who is in trouble, and what do we do if it is after this date? Or there may be other cases where vaccination may prove necessary. Are you going to make a new law, or is this law also applicable to something that happens in the coming months and years?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153752	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153753	I think, in general terms, that as a society, including here in the Folketing, we have tried to deal with the many unforeseen paths that this pandemic has taken, also depending on developments. Fortunately, we are the place where we in Denmark have a very, very high vaccine connection and also a high connection to the third vaccine connector. A fourth stick may also be necessary. That's what development has to decide. Seen in this light, there is thus also a fairly high coverage, also with various new variants, new mutations etc. But it is clear that we will, of course, keep track of developments and do not deny in advance that new decisions need to be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153843	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153844	Couldn't it have been built-in by not having an end date? I think that if there are no cases, it does not just cost to say that from that date onwards we have this opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153856	Basically, it is all aspects of the management of the Corona crisis to ensure that we also deal with the exceptional situations in which the state goes in and finances something that might otherwise have been financed in the past, as in this case the employers, by a different kind of sunset clause for those schemes. But it is clear that if the pandemic should take new turns and new paths, we are open to solving it jointly with the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153931	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426153946	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Paulin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154008	Thank you. In Denmark, we are actually European champions in the production of waste. Almost 800 kg of waste produces a Dane on average per year. It's actually kind of crazy. In addition, we import plastic waste to fill up our incineration plants and that development must be reversed. The task we face is great: we need to crack the waste basket, the waste sector must be climate-neutral by 2030, and we need to sort out 80%. Danish plastic from the incineration plants in 2030. This is our common vision from the Climate Plan for a green waste sector and circular economy. With this bill, we can nick another part of that assignment. The aim is to create a strong recycling sector in Denmark, where we create greater access to the treatment of recyclable waste and create clear framework conditions for private actors so that the opportunities to invest in recycling technologies are as good as possible. Specifically, the draft law will require municipalities to provide treatment and sorting of recyclable household waste by 1 July 2023 at the latest. Existing municipal installations are to be incorporated and may, for a transitional period of five years, offer treatment and sorting of recyclable household waste. In addition, the bill gives companies free choice to choose a municipal or private collector for the waste incinerated, so that it will be possible to collect its recyclable and incineration waste from one actor. Municipalities can continue to offer collection of waste suitable for incineration if it is at market price. The draft law will provide that municipal installations approved for the treatment of recyclable commercial waste will cease treatment on 1 January 2027. In future, municipal recycling sites will have to provide an area for recycled goods from households and businesses. Before the municipalities can give the items to municipal recycling shops, the items must have been sought for private actors and voluntary organisations, and it is important to emphasise that voluntary organisations must continue to have good access to the recycled items. With the bill, we will also give the Supply Control Authority the power to initiate supervision of the waste sector and to obtain information and information necessary for supervision. In addition, the Supply Inspectorate must supervise the arrangements resulting from this bill. So there is no doubt that we are looking into a future that must be circular. We must recycle and we must recycle our resources to a much greater extent than is the case today. We should not continue to be European champions in waste • instead we should be masters in having a strong recycling sector and in recycling and recycling. Social democracy therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154258	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and it is from here Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154306	In fact, these are two questions. One is how this legislation is really linked to the legislative proposal we are also preparing on extended producer responsibility for packaging and disposable plastic products; it is not a legislative proposal that has yet been put forward, but it is on the way. That was one thing. The second point is: does the rapporteur think it appropriate that what we are doing with this bill is actually depriving municipalities of the opportunity to have recycled shops, which there are plenty of around the country for great pleasure and pleasure for citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154355	To start with the last question, the answer is that it is not my view that this would deprive the municipalities of that possibility. However, these recycling items must first be offered to private operators, including the many voluntary organisations which also operate recycling stores. In relation to the link between this bill and producer liability: it is very well connected, because the purpose, one might say, is the same, namely to achieve a higher quality in the waste fractions that are and in the waste products that are so that they are precisely possible to recycle, and because it is relatively easy to go to actors who can find out how to recycle these waste fractions. So there's a really strong connection, you might say, between these different tracks in the field of waste.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154449	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154450	The problem is about the possibility for municipalities to run municipal companies in this area. You're gonna be very limited by this bill. Does the rapporteur not agree that this is a consequence of this, because it is said in this way that this is not something that the municipalities should be able to or should be able to take care of, it is just something that we should have left to some private actors?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154519	Yes, I agree with the rapporteur that the objective is that we would like private operators to be more involved in this area when we talk about sorting and treating recyclable waste. And that is because we know that the future is circular and that we need to see waste in a new light and not in the way that we did in the past, where we saw it as an environmental problem, and we need to see this more as a resource that can be recycled. And that's why it's important that we create this strong industry, where there are also some private players who have good opportunities to access waste fractions and thus create new business models.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154558	The next brief remark is to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154601	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is true that we want to increase recycling, because in Denmark we burn a lot and we are not so good at the circular. But when you read this coinage, there's really no requirement for the quality of recycling. What if the waste recycled is of lower quality than incineration? Can't the scheme be climate-laden rather than green?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154630	I must admit that I did not quite get hold of the rapporteur's question, so perhaps I can ask the rapporteur to clarify it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154637	Yes, I can clarify this in this way: could there be a requirement that the quality of recycling should be higher in terms of green value than if you burn it off? There is no requirement for the quality of recycling, so right now recycling is just recycling, but if it is not very good to recycle, and there is a risk that it will become more polluting, rather than burning it off, then it is a question of whether some clauses or criteria should be included in the legislative proposal on it, so that we do not risk it becoming more black than green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154713	I may not be able to answer that precisely on a stand-by basis, but I would like to say so much that the less waste we have to burn off, the better, and that is a large part of the exercise with this agreement that we have jointly concluded in the field of waste, namely that we have to burn as little off as possible and recycle as much as possible. I think we're creating some really good conditions for us to be able to bring in some private actors who have some power to use these waste fractions in a way that creates new resources, instead of just burning it off, depositing it or the like.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154755	The next brief remark is to Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154758	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In the Danish People's Party, we agree completely with the objective of reusing and reusing more in Denmark. But when we read through this proposal, we see that there is a great deal of emphasis on the difference between private and municipal. But it is still the case that when you look at the household waste, it is the municipalities that are responsible for it. When you look at commercial waste, it is more fragmented. What is being proposed here with the bill is, of course, that the recycling stations that are now approved to deal with commercial waste should stop in the future. Today it is the case that the municipalities cannot say no to receiving commercial waste. Not long ago I went to Lolland to visit a place where some came and wanted to deliver 250 tonnes of used mill wings, and the municipality could not refuse to accept them. But they weren't allowed to handle them. In Bogø it is not very far away from Lolland there is a company that is an expert in recycling these mills for the automotive industry. But now they're buried. 250 tonnes have been dug down on Lolland. This proposal doesn't deal with it at all. Is it not a challenge that, now that we are looking at recycling, we should not at the same time take care of commercial waste?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154909	I do not know this specific example, but as I understand it, and as I have been able to read in the consultation note, there is one person who can say that it is possible for companies to dispose of their waste in recycling places, but that it must be possible if it is similar to what is also known from households. So in this way, I think there is a response to the fact that it is not being cut off from companies. They can dispose of some of their waste at recycling sites. But mill wings are probably a chapter to themselves, and I understand that they may not be accepted at the local recycling site.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154956	The next brief remark is to Mrs Signe Munk, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426154958	Thank you. After all, it is a complex area, that is, the whole waste area in general, and now we have something about the recycling sector. I would really like to know whether the government is of the opinion that, for example, the cuts that lie in the bill in relation to the municipal participation in sorting and in general the treatment of the waste that can be used for material recovery... it might be to crush some materials that can be used in the way, and that the municipalities may participate in it ■ is chiseled in granite, so as to stay in that pun. Or could it be imagined that this cut in terms of sorting and material recycling, the list of exceptions to be included in the draft law, is complete as it is now, or can one see that this is something that can be seen in the further legislative process?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426155058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426155059	I really think that a good cut has been made in terms of meeting the intentions of the agreement on waste and the circular economy, but at the same time we also have to deal with some of the things where it can be said that it may be a little crazy if things are implemented too rigidly and that it is therefore suggested that the Minister also has some opportunities to adjust some things along the way through announcements. And I think that some of what is fine, for example, and which is met in relation to the consultation answers, is something like flamingo, i.e. it doesn't make much sense to drive around with trucks filled with a lot of flamingo that weighs nothing, to bring it forward, and that the municipalities should sort it out, or whatever it is called, compress it to some smaller sizes. So I really think there has been a very good cut here, which is pragmatic, but also meets the intentions of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426155201	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426155202	The reason I ask is that I believe that this cut is not necessarily affected, also because the text of the agreement does not go down and relates to flamingo compression and composting, etc. That is why I think it is worth emphasising that there are several consultation responses which give examples of some waste fractions where it makes sense that municipalities can do some pre-sorting. It may also be rooms in waste containers where there are two kinds of fractions which are mixed together and which may well be compared to the ten fractions. But a faction that mixes metal and cardboard if you have to, it's just to give an example that can be more expensive to sell, and therefore it can be an advantage for the municipality that they can separate it. As I understand some of the answers to the hearings, they are not allowed to do so, as the cut is today. That is why I am rather sorry to hear if the government is not of the opinion that it can be seen whether the figure is correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426155303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426155304	Well, now this is a first reading and an opportunity for us to discuss what may be of different considerations in relation to the way in which the draft law is now in place. However, I just think that what I would like to bring here today is that I think it is clear from the consultation note that many things have been accommodated in which it can be said that this makes a great deal of sense. For example, you can make a manual sorting and remove a textile bag from the cardboard container etc. So I actually think a good cut has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426155337	Thank you to Mrs Paulin from the Social Democratic Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Carsten Kissmeyer. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426155346	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the government for submitting L 153, which is the implementation of the agreement •Climate plan for a green waste sector and circular economy concluded in June 2020 • an agreement that the Left is actually really happy to be part of. At this stage, we are simultaneously negotiating the implementation of the climate plan for the waste area, which is why we have already discussed many of the amendments and details that this bill should formally implement. The whole purpose of the bill is to create a strong recycling sector in Denmark by offering large parts of the waste task. After all, it creates a competitive advantage and climate and environmental efficiency and greater transparency in this area. These are all very good things, and the Left is happy to be part of the circle behind them. And we are also pleased to be involved in the negotiations that are in place. Having said that, we have to see that this is really complicated matter. It is a restructuring of the whole waste sector and there are a great many stakeholders who need to be consulted and involved in the process. I would like to highlight a few of the comments from the stakeholders' consultation responses that we have not discussed in depth in the negotiating room at this stage. Like us in the Left, Danish Industry is pleased that the proposal is close to the political agreement. They suggest, however, that a market survey should be carried out for first calls for tenders in order to be sure that the market is ready for the task. We agree with that. The very thing about being ready for the job is central. If there are fractions that you cannot get rid of in a sensible way, it may not be right in the first place that you have to choose it. Several organisations mention that there is no need for local presence in the market for handling slag and garden and park waste respectively. We would like to take part in this discussion. Having said that, I agree with the previous questioner, Mrs Signe Munk, that there is something about what the municipalities can participate in, how they can participate in. There are some delimitation problems that it is appropriate to look at, and we would also like to take part in that. The People's Church's Emergency Aid, the Church's Cross Army and the Red Cross are concerned that when the municipality actively invites citizens to deliver recycled items in the recycling area and in bulky waste schemes rather than in existing recycling stores run by voluntary organisations, the money will go from a well-functioning recycling market to the municipality instead. The inter-branch organisation of the collecting organisations estimates that the consequence may be a loss of more than 70 million. kr. annual for voluntary organisations. That is a point we think we should be aware of. In addition, they also point out that to a certain extent they are subject to waste fees for what they sort away from households, and this may not be appropriate either. The National Association of Municipalities sees the proposal as an over-implementation of the climate plan and fears unequal conditions of competition between private and municipal providers. Here they ask questions about who should uncover stranded costs. It means costs that you have invested in installations that you cannot get rid of, and you must also be able to handle • including if the waste fee is much higher than the average DKK 75. annual per year; household, which we have been promised, and which requires the implementation of the efficiency of potentials mentioned in Deloitte's report. They are, of course, a risk that they will not be met. We would really like that to be followed on a regular basis. It is absolutely crucial for us that it does not become a heavy bill that ends up with the Danes. We have said that it must not be more expensive to be a Dane. Finally, the Danish Waste Association asks what it will cost to run the Supply Agency and what it will cost citizens. I remember seeing something somewhere with 5 kroner. We would like to discuss all these comments in the next committee, and we are already discussing a number of specific details of the proposal in the negotiations. For the Left, it is crucial that it does not become more expensive to be a Dane. And there are other aspects to this when reality strikes. Some of the aspects are what the quality of sorting in different residential areas is like. Is it gonna work? Will it actually work and work? There's also something about aesthetics in urban space. How do we make the aesthetics look reasonable in urban space? As the Left is part of the circle of agreements behind the climate plan, we expect to support this draft law after detailed clarification of our questions and comments in committee. And exactly the last thing I think is essential is that we discuss each other. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426155849	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426155856	I would like to ask the rapporteur something. It is the case in the municipality where I live that we drive a mass garden waste to our recycling site, and that we can then take back a free load of composting land, and it is a scheme in principle that can be said that it is the municipality that is responsible for the production of it there from the material that we bring as citizens. So we drive the material ourselves out to the municipality, you might say, and we will also take the land back to ourselves, if that is the case, that there is something we need. After all, this proposal, like some strings or some restrictions, imposes that this kind of thing can continue. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426155944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426155945	In fact, I think it makes sense to have a pragmatic approach to what is sensible to deal with. But it does not destroy the possibility that you can market it, that you make a supply of those who handle the situation, that is to say, that you crush it and compost it. But we do not have to move it around several times for that reason, which is why I think there are also some border cases. For example, we do. allowed to have a cardboard press container? Are we allowed to press the flamingo, etc.?? I think there are some border cases that it is very, very sensible to have a look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426160024	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426160027	I would also like to ask a more specific question: does the rapporteur think that this is a good development if it is the case that we are going to pay for the compost being made?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426160042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426160045	In fact, in relation to the model that you see practiced in many places, including in the municipality where I myself have been mayor for many years, I must say that there is something beautiful about bringing your garden waste and bringing back some compost. I think there's something beautiful about that, and I think we should figure that out somehow.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426160100	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Signe Munk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426160112	With the climate agreement for a green waste sector and circular economy, we set a clear direction for Denmark: much more of what we now call waste must be resources for recycling. In concrete terms, this means that there must be less incineration and more recycling and, indeed, more recycling. This bill deals with the organisation of the recycling sector, and the overall aim is to build up a recycling industry in Denmark and make Denmark and, in general, recycle materials for a really good business. At the same time, however, it has also been important for the SF in these negotiations for the agreement that lies behind the bill that the municipalities continue to play an important role in the whole area of waste, when it comes to bringing up recycling, and when it comes to the political agreement that lies behind this bill, it is no secret that it is a political compromise that was made in the waste agreement in question. For SF there it was important to ensure that the municipalities' current sorting and recycling facilities can offer for the treatment of recycled household waste now well enough under new frameworks and that, at the same time, derogations can be granted to new plants if they are established through a public-private partnership and that the smaller companies that have household-like waste, for example. small shops, cafés, hairdressers, etc. can also use the municipal collection schemes, which they have not been able to use under the previous legislation, let alone maintain that it is therefore up to the municipalities whether they want to offer or have the collection of waste themselves, and we will continue to do so. The draft law therefore implements an agreement which is not precise either, and that is why we would like to see some of the lines laid down in the legislative proposal in question drawn up, some of which are also highlighted in the consultation proposals, and in fact some of the sections which the previous rapporteur drew attention to. This applies, among other things, to: the possibility for municipalities to divide waste, separate combined fractions, and this is also about the issue of areas where housing and business are mixed, and then it is also about an understanding of why the bill works with a market price and why the waste fee that is for citizens is not convertible to companies. So we have some questions we will ask in the further legislative process, and we look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426160400	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Signe Munk, and then it is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426160409	Thank you. It is true, as has been said, that this bill is probably complicated and that it is not quite the case. But as we read it, the main aim is beyond what is in the title of having more recyclability and recycling and that kind of good thing, so to build an industry in this area, and that industry must obviously not be out-to-date by the municipalities. Because what is happening here is, in fact, going in and restricting the municipalities' ability to contribute to how we handle our waste, how we ensure that there is more recycling and how we ensure that, as others have said, there will be the possibility of a circular economy. So I have already referred to some of the questions, and some of the things that I think are going to be very unfortunate are, among other things. in the question of composting and the possibility for municipalities to do so, and that they can be said to have it as a kind of service. But it is a service in which the individual citizen is in fact actively involved. You come and deliver some garden waste, and then you get some compost with you home, if you need it, so that you can grow some organic vegetables at home in your small cadastral, if you have some room for it. I also think that there is a big problem with the fact that they say that the things that can be recycled are such typical furniture, and they may be clothes, and they may be other things that should be made available or offered to some organisations and associations, and that they should not be carried over to a recycling store and sold there. Because it is obviously a municipal company, and such municipal companies that earn money are apparently a crime in relation to the understanding one has of this problem, if it is the case that the municipalities have their own shops and companies that can work with it here. We think that is also a boring approach. The last thing I want to say here is that we are a little surprised that this bill is not somehow coordinated or has some sort of consistency with what we are working on about an extended producer responsibility for packaging and disposable plastic products. There is also a lot of thought about the fact that producers are now actually about to finance all the costs involved in handling those products, and that is a cost that is now moving away from the citizen. That is to say, where they have, like, had a payment for waste management, it is actually the case that parts of the future should be transferred to producers, and that is not in this legislative text at all. So, overall, we are opposed to the draft law as it stands now. I shall not be able to say whether it will be possible to make some changes. Several of them have been announced by the rapporteur of the Left, and I also heard the Socialist People's Party rapporteur say that they were interested in changing and perhaps making this bill a little more edible in relation to the municipalities. But we will decide on that when we see it. As things stand now, we have to say that we are voting against.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426160813	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426160816	Thank you to the rapporteur. There has, of course, been a rather special process on the part of Enhedslisten about this agreement. The Enhedslisten concluded the Climate Agreement for the waste sector and the circular economy, from which this bill is also derived, and that is why I really need to hear whether the rapporteur cannot explain to us all why Enhedslisten was involved in approving virtually everything that lies in this bill, which has been copied from the text of the agreement on the recycling sector when the agreement was concluded on 16 June 2020, but now seems to be going against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426160857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426160858	As the questioner knows, we have withdrawn from that agreement because of the developments in terms of how we organise the future waste sector. That was among other things. the question of whether municipal incineration plants and such things should be transferred to private hands, and it was like a cardinal point for us. We also had other problems in relation to the original text, because it was also when it was made, and the rapporteur knows this as well, a compromise; but it was a compromise that balanced a knife egg and we fell down to the wrong side when it kind of started to translate what it was for a compromise we had made. From our point of view, it simply did not hold politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426161001	Mrs. Signe Munk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426161003	To have the history in place: Enhedslisten left the agreement when it became clear that the National Association of Municipalities did not have a plan to reduce incineration capacity. But this bill does not deal with the incineration part of the waste agreement; it deals with the recycling part of the waste agreement, as Enhedslisten and now the rapporteur also says was not a cardinal point for the Enhedslisten in the agreement. So I just have to understand that, overall, the Enhedslisten is actually positive about the legislative proposal and the reorganisation of the recycling sector that is basically here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426161037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426161039	No, actually, we're not. We are not in favour of the legislative proposal. There have been several legislative proposals, but the bill has been knitted like this now because it has been in consultation and because it has been changed after it was in consultation. But basically, this is about establishing an industry in this area, and the municipalities have to give way to their role in working on the waste problem, and we are not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426161115	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426161123	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. With this bill, we are in the process of implementing our big agreement on a green waste sector, circular economy and climate. We fully agree with Conservatives that it is important to strengthen recycling, and we fully support this overall, as we did with the agreement. However, with regard to the implementation of the agreement with L 153, we have a number of comments and questions. At New Year's there was a hearing on the bill and there was a lot of focus on household waste. We do not really see this in the legislative proposal that has been put forward here. So I want to know if there's been a shift or what it is. We have some comments on four areas in addition to that. It is about economics, it is about recycling quality, it is about Danish jobs outside the transport sector, and then it is about local authorities' investments. We are going to overlook many of our questions after the first reading here, but I would like to mention some of them here. Around the economy, I would say: there is no upper limit to the costs of recycling. The question is whether we should not demand that recycling costs should also be commensurate with the quality of recycling. For one of the driving conditions for removing tasks from municipalities and supplies, it is assumed that private operators can ensure a higher use of resources and make it cheaper. We can, of course, read here in one of the consultation answers that it is proposed that a market survey should be carried out before the first call for tenders, just to be sure whether these assumptions are now valid. Is the market ready to do the job? It is important that we also look at the price. We agree with that, so we also believe that a market study should be carried out. We are also concerned that there is an increase in waste charges. It was first presented that it was 55 kroner, and now we see that they are getting higher and higher. It should not be more expensive to be a Dane. The Danes have plenty to spend their money on now with high energy prices, inflation etc. The agreement also provides for State supervision to be established to receive reports, evaluate price conditions and make mandatory and administrative decisions. How do we ensure that this does not create bureaucratic trouble and become expensive? It is as if there has been a very rigid separation between the public and the private. After all, we are very much in favour of privatising, but that must also make sense. We miss the fact that there is also a framework for establishing proper private and public cooperation, which also uses the positions of strength in the municipal area. Environment and quality: There are not really any requirements for the quality of recycling. If waste recycled is of lower quality than waste for incineration, is the scheme not climate-laden rather than green? Should it not then be required that the recycling quality is better than it is for incineration before the waste can be recycled? Should it also be ensured that the energy waste plants retain sufficient capacity to address some of the social problems, including problems of contaminated waste, such as: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Right here in the end there are two points and they are around the Danish jobs. During the preliminary preparations for the bill, the focus was on creating green Danish jobs. However, this has changed, and with the current focus on supply and access for private collectors, which now has the main focus, we would like to ask: what is the employment and socio-economic value? As far as municipal investment is concerned, it is long-term investment that has been put into the latest technologies in sorting technology and resource management technology, and it also requires a little long-term access to predictable amounts of certain resources. What can you count on to get your money back and it can be profitable? But with the bill, there is quite a lot of focus on short-term tenders. So what investment conditions are there for the Danish resource processing plants and thus Danish green jobs? Could an evaluation clause be introduced on the many assumptions on which this bill is based? Could we sort of put something in there and say that this is going to be rolled out, for example. as the market analysis which is also being proposed? We expect to support the agreement, which we are part of, but we would like answers to our questions in the further part of the discussion of the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426161613	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anne Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426161618	Thank you. I am curious to hear the rapporteur on what kind of waste fractions the rapporteur thinks are better to burn off than to recycle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426161631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426161633	It may be that if something is of poor quality, contains toxic substances etc., it is better that you get it taken out of recycling and that you get it handled in a different way. That was among other things. the fact that you could put it into these special waste sorting plants if that is something that, among other things, is. is toxic and has some other, what to say, technical things that make it not particularly appropriate to burn it or recycle it, but it is also to ensure that what we recycle is really of such quality that it is useful to recycle it and secure a CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220426161713	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426161723	Thank you. This agreement was actually one that the Danish People's Party wanted to have been part of. We are not, after all, and that is sometimes the case in politics, but we are very much in agreement with the objectives. There is no doubt that we in Denmark have been some of the world's best at handling our waste for a long, long years. We have been incredibly good at collecting it, and the municipalities should be commended for that. We've also been good at dealing with our garbage. We burned it off and had some district heating done. It has been very good, but we just have to say that today it is an old technology. We should not do that in the future. In the future, we need to recycle more, we need to recycle more. Waste has become a resource instead of a problem that has been burned by the Community, but we have, however, been getting some good out of it for a long time. Why, then, we are not part of the agreement is because there are some challenges in it, we think, in relation to the way in which it is addressed. Because we think it would be better to look at what it is that you want. Do we want to recycle more, do we want to recycle more, do we need to collect more? But what this is all about is who should do it and not so much about how to do it, and perhaps the question is whether we should take such an interest in it as politicians. At any rate, we can see that there is a huge need for something to happen, because with the liberalisation that happened in the past with commercial waste, we have at least created incentives which are completely wrong in relation to the way in which we have recycled our commercial waste today. We must do much, much better than our domestic waste and, of course, our commercial waste. As we read the agreement here, it will be the case that industrial waste must be kept away from the municipalities; it is only private people who have to deal with it. We are not very concerned about whether it is a municipality or whether it is private. It doesn't do much for us what is on the chest of those who handle our garbage, as long as they can do well, and as long as they can make it at the right price. Therefore, we would have liked to have looked more at making some close shutters, so that there are no municipal-owned works.Of course that's what you're afraid of here, and it's also justified that sits and says: We want a cheap garbage fee, and then we just have some higher prices, or we want a cheaper district heating, and therefore we just have some higher prices. We fully understand that is what the government has, of course, been working on, and what are the tools that have been used for this? What also lies in it is, and that is what often happens in politics too, that you go out and say that there will be a small extra prize for the Danes. 55 kr. per household it will be on average. That's what you always have to remember: you have to read the whole sentence. You don't have to stop after it says a penny; you have to read the sentence completely. Because when the average price is $55, someone's gonna pay $10 and somebody's gonna pay $1,000, and you're gonna end up somewhere in between. I can at least say that, of course, there will be a big difference in what it costs. If you live in a city where people live on top of each other and put the waste in a shaft, you can pick up a garbage can for perhaps 50 people relatively quickly. If you live in a place like I do down in Guldborgsund Municipality on Falster, you sometimes see, when you get out, that there can be 100 m between the trash cans, and there you may only pick up one person at a time, and of course it becomes so expensive to pick up and sort the waste in those municipalities. At least there are some challenges, in terms of how to get a reasonable distribution of it. So I would like to say that for the Danish People's Party to see, to get this going, there will be a cost, and should it be consumer driven? Yeah, it might be. I believe that the Danes are ready for us in Denmark to recycle more. You just have to have done it in a sensible and fair way. Although we are not part of the agreement, we have some questions that we will ask in committee. I can also see that a great many of the parties to the agreement will, and it may well be that with all the questions that the parties to the agreement also ask, it is perhaps just before that there will be a round to which one can be invited to a debate. We shall certainly say yes to that by the Danish People's Party, because once again I have to say that the objective is the right one. We need to burn more waste and we need to sort and recycle more waste. We are in agreement with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426162153	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber, so we have reached the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426162210	Thank you. And let me also begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their comments on the draft law. It is quite technical matter and a complicated area, and so it is also the implementation of an agreement that was made some time ago. That's why things may not be all right. I think I can see that some of the discussions are repeating themselves in this way, and that is quite fine. Just because something has been discussed and a compromise has been found, one can of course recapitulate the arguments for and against, but it is also clear, of course, that it is not the case that I consider it an option that we start over and renegotiate everything from scratch. I hope and believe there is understanding for that. A broad circle of Parliament's parties entered into an agreement in June 2020 on a climate plan for a green waste sector and circular economy. The agreement must be secured CO 2 tonnes and is a significant contribution to the 70-percent objective. The agreement is based on the guiding principle that we must recycle much more of our waste and incinerate much less. The Danes are already in full swing out there sorting the waste so it will be much easier to recycle. Now, with this bill, we must pave the way for a strong recycling sector in Denmark. New waste technologies and solutions are developing rapidly, but Denmark has been lagging behind for too long, and we have not had the large-scale sorting plants that we see in our neighbouring countries either. We are therefore missing out on both green jobs and new opportunities for our businesses. The bill must therefore create an optimal framework for a strong Danish recycling sector, so that Denmark can help to develop and create solutions for the future in waste treatment. Thus, the Danish waste sector can be part of the race for future green waste solutions. In the future, resources in waste will be released through the provision by municipalities of the treatment and sorting of recyclable household waste. At the same time, municipal installations which today have a derogation to treat recyclable commercial waste must cease by 2027 at the latest. This creates a clear framework for the Danish waste sector. In future, in municipal recycling sites, there must be an area in which citizens and businesses can put items that can be recycled. In this case, the municipality must dispose of the items free of charge. Private actors, such as: voluntary organisations are given the first right to the items, and then municipal recycling shops, municipal institutions and companies can take over the items. Thus, we strengthen recycling in Denmark and continue to ensure strong voluntary organisations that carry out important work in the civil sector. We are also increasing the choice for companies. They already choose the collectors of the recyclable waste themselves today; in the future, they can choose a waste collector for their waste incinerated and collect all the waste from one collector. For small enterprises whose waste amounts correspond to those of households and for companies in non-bridged islands, there will be the possibility of using the municipal collection schemes. In order to create a level playing field, municipal waste services to companies must be offered at market prices. Finally, the waste sector, like the other supply sectors, must be subject to financial supervision by the Supply Inspectorate. It aims to ensure transparency, a level playing field and effective prices in the sector. There has been a great deal of interest in the draft law during the hearing. The consultations showed that in some places we had not hit quite correctly the interface between municipal and private activities. This has led to adjustments. Among other things, the possibility of recycling is strengthened by the fact that the municipalities can take the items out of the waste container at the recycling site in order to place them in the recycling area for the benefit of citizens and companies, and that the municipalities must dispose of them free of charge to private companies, for example. the voluntary organisations. This has been done to ensure easy access to the items and reflects the agreement parties that voluntary organisations play an important role in creating more recycling. An authorisation has been introduced to allow the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply to lay down rules on averages between municipal or private participation in reloading activities. This ensures flexible legislation that can keep up with developments in the waste sector. Overall, the bill will support the development of a strong recycling sector in Denmark. It should contribute to the development of new waste technologies and pave the way for a more circular economy. Let me conclude by thanking you for your interest in the draft law; I look forward to the committee's examination of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426162724	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Climate, Energy and Supply Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426162739	The debate is open. Since no one has asked to speak, the debate is closed. Is there a request for referral to committee? As this is not the case, the draft parliamentary resolution goes directly to 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426162836	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426162851	Thank you. Today we have to deal with a legislative proposal to help remedy an injustice that we have unfortunately seen hit several Danes. These are ordinary Danes who have been exposed to fraud. Unfortunately, they have experienced being the victims of fraud with their easy account. We have seen several cases where fraudsters have wrongly got their hands on a citizen's information. be the citizen's NemID information, i.e. username and password or key card, or in the form that they have been able to approve something in an app. How they got their hands on it may not be that important. What is important is that the fraudsters have obtained the information wrongly. The fraudsters have subsequently used the information to change the citizen's easy account into one of their own bank accounts and when the citizen had to have paid a public service, for example. their national pension, or salary, then the money has been transferred to an account which has been registered as their account but which has now been converted into one of the fraudster's bank accounts. In doing so, the fraudster was wrongly paid the benefits of others. Today, unfortunately, it is not possible to compensate citizens who have been exposed to this type of account fraud. Frankly, this is not related to the fact that our public sector is one of the most digital in the world and that a lot of Danes use the public digital solutions on a daily basis. The Danes have a very high degree of confidence in our public digital solutions, which is why we must of course also ensure that we are not punished for applying our solutions. This is ensured by this bill, which allows Danes to receive compensation from the state if they are exposed to easy account fraud. There is, of course, the requirement to document the fraud and that it is an innocuous scheme which is very similar to the one we know from the fraud with the Dankorts and we in the Social Democratic Party think that this is fair. At the same time, we are pleased that the draft law will also enable Danes who have been exposed to fraud in the last 10 years to apply for compensation. Nowadays, there are a lot of us moving from NemID to MitID, and my hope is that it's going to mean that we're going to see less of this kind of easy-to-account fraud. MyID is safer, and it's gonna be harder for the scammers to abuse another person's login. At the same time, there are several options to monitor the use of your MitID, so you can quickly discover it if there is something wrong. In the best of all worlds, fraud would not take place at all, but unfortunately it does, so I am glad that we are seeing this bill and that we can hopefully look forward to a protective compensation system. In the Social Democratic Party we support the proposal and I should like to welcome it from the Enhedslisten and say that they are in favour of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163130	Thank you very much to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163142	Thank you for the floor. As our rapporteur in this area is unable to be here today, I am giving this speech on behalf of the rapporteur. Today, unfortunately, fraud involving public funds is a major problem, affecting citizens' confidence in digital development. That is why I am pleased that the government has tabled this bill, which will allow the citizen to be compensated for the payments that the citizen has not, innocence, received due to errors or fraud with information. In the Left, we want citizens who have experienced fraud in the easy-to-account system to be properly compensated. That is why we expect to support the bill. We have, of course, a few questions and comments which we would like to clarify in the next committee. For example, Payout Denmark asks in its consultation answer whether the amount of compensation will be taxable. This could affect the payment of citizens' social benefits. There are also a few other points of attention, for example in relation to proposals for preventive interventions, such as that a limit should be placed on how many people can have access to the same easy account. We look forward to discussing all this in the next legislative procedure in committee. As I said, we expect to support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163251	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163305	Thank you. It should almost have been SF's legal rapporteur, Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, who was allowed to stand up here on the platform, because I think some of the honour is due to her. She has spent an incredible amount of time and resources in this area because so many people have been exposed to fraud. I shall say on behalf of the SF that, of course, we sign for the proposal, but we would like it to have gone further. You have some rights if, for example, you have rights. has been defrauded by your credit card in relation to the money being deducted from the account; you have some rights if it is proven that you have been exposed to fraud if the offender has been found. This proposal does not go that far, and we think that is really a pity. We see only an increase in this kind of fraud not only with easy account, but also with many other things, and so in the worst cases it has a devastating effect on the lives of many people to be exposed to fraud in this way. This bill doesn't go far enough than that. If a perpetrator has been found who has accepted and admitted that it is he who has cheated, then the victim is still not entitled to compensation. So it is our wish that the bill goes further than this. We think it is unreasonable that, if a perpetrator has recognised the fraud, then there is still no compensation for it. So we are tabling some amendments on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163449	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Thorholm from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163500	In the Radical Left, we look forward to work on this new compensation scheme in relation to easy-to-account fraud. After all, it is a challenge for us to have more and more systems, and we must ensure confidence in them and compensation for citizens when fraud has occurred. We are interested in hearing how big the problem is. Then we are also aware of asking about data ethics, because you give access to both private and public payouts via the easy system, and we don't have enough to know if that is unveiled. Then there is also talk of a fee system. It sounds like nothing when we talk about a fee of four cents, but what does it mean, and how does it happen? We're excited to hear more about that. So with these few comments we look forward to the work on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163607	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163610	Thank you. Could the rapporteur be interested in supporting an amendment in order to improve this proposal for a directive so that it is more in line with the rules that exist, for example. If you use your credit card or if you use your credit card, you will be kept free of injury if it can be proved that you are not responsible for fraud by borrowing or otherwise in your name?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163634	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163636	We are interested in having a dialogue on the proposals that you could make. I do not have that detailed knowledge, so in this way I cannot stand by and promise it at this time, but I am very interested in hearing SF's perspectives on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163652	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163653	Thank you. And, of course, the rapporteur cannot stand by and promise it. In SF, we just think that there is a parallelity between being scammed with your dance card and being scammed with your easy account. After all, it is a requirement for citizens to have an easy account, and then we think that if you have been cheated innocently, you should be kept free of harm if you have to borrow loans. This is something that could potentially destroy people's lives, at least financially.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163717	I wrote it down when the rapporteur gave his speech because I thought it was interesting. But what the consequences of that are, in relation to the possibility that the system might be further developed and something like that, I am not in a position to comment on. But that sounds interesting, so we are taking it into the further negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163736	Thank you very much to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163744	Thank you very much, sir. President. As you can see, our rapporteur in this area is prevented from being here today, which is why you have to settle for me. The draft law has the most character of closing a gap in legislation. There are now citizens who can get into trouble with easy account fraud and NemID, even though they are without blame, and that is obviously unfair. If citizens experience fraud without their own fault through state systems, the state must pay the bill and compensate the citizen who has been cheated. That is in its essence what the legislation is about, and of course we support it. This is a limited cost for the state, but for the individual citizen who may get into trouble, it can have a completely, absolutely crucial importance. The Conservative People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163834	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163836	Thank you. I would like to ask the Conservative People's Party's position on the fact that you have been exposed to fraud and are in an economic squeeze and there is a culprit who has recognised guilt, so it is clear that it is not his own fault that you, for example, should be guilty. are liable for a loan, etc. Does it not matter to your legal certainty that you can then still be liable for the loan that has been fraudulent in connection with, even if blame has been recognised?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163909	Yes, it certainly will.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163912	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426163925	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have said: if you have been exposed to fraud in connection with your easy account, it is very good that it is now being put in place for this announcement to be made. We also very much agree that there is an authorisation to have the exact rules drawn up in relation to it. The only thing we may have such a negative nature is that it is planned to take place for six months. But we have to see how much it is going to be and whether there will be a need to extend it beyond the six months planned. Otherwise, it is very important for us that, in such a digitalised society as we do, there is of course confidence that when you use the public sector and you use it, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if there were to be mistakes, because that is what can be done or fraud is taking place, there can of course be compensation. We are very pleased with that. But 6 months is now not long response time to have, if it is a case that is about 10 years old, which is also being proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164033	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164036	Thank you. The way in which the bill is drafted risks that, even if the conviction has been passed and the culprit has acknowledged guilt, the claim is still sent to the victim. Will DF consider making an amendment together with SF, so that we can make a parallelity with other parts of our legislation so that if you have been innocently exposed to fraud and there has been a conviction, the claim should not still be sent to the victim?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164101	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164103	We will certainly be positive about this. That is what we are looking at in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164106	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164114	Thank you. I'll be brief. It's a fine proposal that closes a hole. In order to get the SF's rapporteur a little ahead of us, we also think that this is an interesting idea coming from the SF, so we will probably support it if there is an amendment with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164128	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next speaker is therefore the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164139	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the rapporteurs for the very positive reception of the draft law and for the good speeches. A number of issues have been raised which I look forward to us being able to identify in committee. Denmark is one of the world's leading countries when it comes to digitising the public sector. We have basically high confidence in the public sector, which we increasingly contact and meet digitally, and we are diligent users of, for example. EasyID and easy account. That is why citizens must also be guaranteed as well as possible, and those citizens who have committed fraud innocently in these public digital services must enjoy similar coverage as when, for example, there is a similar level of coverage. has been scammed with one's credit card. When it was first stated that some citizens had been cheated through their own NemID, we started to solve the problems that exist. Today, it is the case that the existing legislation does not embrace all cases of fraud, and therefore there are citizens who are at risk of financial losses, where they themselves are not responsible for their NemID having been abused to change the easy account. I myself and the government are not fair, and I hear that there is broad agreement here in the Folketing that we should do something about this. The bill therefore makes it possible to apply for compensation if you can prove as a citizen that you have seen innocence that payments have been fraudulently made via your easy account. If we adopt the proposal together, it could enter into force from 1 August 2022 and it will apply with 10 years of retroactive effect. In this way, we will ensure that those who are unfortunate and are exposed to fraud in the future, but also those who have been the victims of fraud in the past. We have also seen citizens who have been exposed to fraud and who have still been held responsible by, for example, companies that issue expensive consumer loans, even though the fraudster has acknowledged his crime. No one can benefit from this, and the government is therefore aware that consumer credit companies, for example, need to be made clear what the applicable rules are in this area. As the legislation is today, you are not bound by agreements that you have not made yourself, and that is why the Minister for Business has contacted the financial institutions and the rules have been tightened up. I welcome the fact that the government, together with the Folketing, is focusing on the problem and I hope that together we can get this in place so that we can strengthen the legal position of the citizens and have better security for the individual citizen who might be exposed to fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164416	Thank you very much to the Minister for Finance. No one has asked for brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Home Affairs and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164430	The debate is open and first we give the floor to the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164448	Thank you. Raw materials such as sand and gravel are important for our society and the need for raw materials will continue to be great in the future. Without raw materials, we could not build roads and houses, as we are doing today, nor could we lay the foundations for the many new wind turbines, which are also important for the green conversion. However, raw materials represent both a limited and non-renewable resource, and therefore there is a need to focus on the appropriate use of raw materials, both in terms of nature and climate impact and the consideration of neighbours. The government is aware of the problems and also that in some regions there is a challenge to extract enough raw materials to meet both current and future needs in the neighbourhood, and there must also be raw materials for future construction projects and other building activities. That is why we need to use the resources we now have in the best possible way. We must be better able to recycle, recycle and replace, so that raw materials are also available for future generations. The resolution we are debating today has many similarities with B 165, which was tabled just over a year ago, including by the Left, on the development of a national strategy for raw materials. The proposal was rejected back in June 2021, and it did so with reference to waiting for work on the initiative on safe and healthy reuse and recycling in construction. It was an initiative that was agreed in the context of the national strategy for sustainable construction last year too, as a broad circle of parties agreed, and it is expected that the initiative will be completed next year. In the report on the proposal last year, the Social Democratic Party, the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslist noted that, after the work on the initiative has been completed, the parties will decide which follow-up is appropriate, including for example. the question of a national raw material strategy. It is also the view of the government that we must continue to focus on the area, but that, in the light of the initiative, in particular, the strategy for sustainable construction, there is no need for the exact proposal that lies here today, but that we therefore stand firm on the work that was also started at that time. And then there is the need for consistency in the agreements that we make. But we agree with the ambition to strengthen the production of sustainable wood as well, such as this. We are also talking about certification, and here we are preparing the framework for the work on the forest plan, to which reference is made, as agreed in the Finance Act, even before it is envisaged in the strategy here. Against this background, the government cannot support the resolution as it stands, but we are, of course, looking forward to the dialogue with the Folketing. I think we are all concerned with this whole area, and indeed also with the agreements that have been concluded, which means that there will be consumption of raw materials in the future too. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164806	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164812	Thank you. And thank you for what I actually hear, which is a welcoming speech from the Minister. Can the Minister just try to clarify a little more when the Minister expects there to be a strategy covering this whole breadth, which we are trying to address here? Because what we're hearing is that there's actually a lot of pressure out there, so we're kind of running out of some of these materials. And then there are the materials that we completely lack, because we really need to think far into the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164844	It is true, however, that Mrs Heidi Bank has listened to this, so that there is also the sensitivity to the issue of our raw materials. We can all see that, on the one hand, we need them and, on the other, that we have also made political decisions here in the Folketing and in some of the parties to the agreement that we have, which will also take advantage of raw materials, and, on the other hand, that we have this initiative in the strategy on sustainable construction, which has also been initiated by a wide range of parties, and in which we noted in the report we presented here last year that we need to have the knowledge base in place also in order to take a position on a possible national raw materials strategy. So I kind of agree that we should have just looked at this area, and there it has been the order that we thought was reasonable. As I said, I think we agree that the issue itself is important here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164936	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. The next speaker is Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426164957	Thank you. Unfortunately, our rapporteur has no opportunity to be in the Chamber today, so I have promised to say a few words about the proposal from the Left. First of all, I would like to thank the Left for presenting the motion for a resolution and for highlighting this important issue. As a starting point, SF believes that a raw material strategy is a very good idea. Contrary to what many people think, there are no infinite quantities of raw materials in Denmark. As it looks now, Denmark will actually risk running out of sand and gravel within a decade or two. In addition, we do not have an overview of whether there is enough sand and gravel to build energy islands, Lynetteholmen, Femern, and yes, who knows, perhaps even an Kattegat connection, while also continuing with the ordinary construction. We therefore make decisions blindly, also seen with our eyes. This may lead us to import large quantities of sand and gravel. This can lead to high prices in construction and, of course, high greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the lack of planning may cause pressure to increase the extraction of raw materials on the sea area, which is extremely damaging to marine life. There is therefore clearly a need to look at what we can and must do to use our resources sensibly. In this context, SF also considers that increased recycling of building materials and materials that are applauded, i.e. dumped on the seabed, should be key elements. In addition, a strategic assessment should be made of where it makes sense to expand ports in view of the consumption of raw materials. However, we believe in the SF that the proposal lacks funding and, in general, consideration of what such a strategy with an updated update every 4 years will cost. In addition, we find the timing a bit strange, as we are ahead of negotiations on a new marine plan, where a raw material strategy from the point of view of the SF can and should be an element as well. That is why, despite the fact that we welcome the proposal, the SF cannot vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426165209	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426165213	Thank you, and thank you for what I actually hear as very, very positive words from the rapporteur. In relation to this whole part of the timing, I would like to ask whether the rapporteur does not recognise that this is actually extremely important and that a plan of the sea is not necessarily taken together? Well, what we're trying to talk about here is that we have to think about these resources broadly, so we're going to think all the way around, so we're also going to think about what the rapporteur mentions, that is, recycling, and so there's going to be a comprehensive strategy on how we're going to do this in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426165250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426165252	Thank you. I am also trying, in the rapporteur's speech, to express the need for an overall strategy. On the other hand, we think it makes sense to have discussions in the context of the negotiations on a new marine plan. I hope, then, that the rapporteur will take the proposal back to committee and perhaps take the lead there to perhaps bring together a report.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426165314	Thank you very much to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bruno Jerup of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426165323	Thank you. We certainly need a strategy for raw materials, and in this way we are positive about the intentions of the proposal from the Left. It is quite clear to us that we must have such a strategy, and that strategy requires a very, very strong reflection on the use of raw materials in general, in other words both the possibility of reducing the use of raw materials, but also the possibility of reducing the use of virgin raw materials, so that more recycling and recycling of raw materials can be achieved. It's like the way we're gonna try to get out of here. And then I agree with what was also said by the rapporteur for the SF, namely that this plan or strategy must also be considered in relation to the marine plan that we are making, because there is, among other things, in it. We also need to consider where it is that we have to suck up raw materials from some of our marine areas. So there are some relationships there. There is also another issue that is not really being dealt with. It can be said that the proposal from the Left is very focused on whether we are able to deliver to the industries and to the projects that we are about to embark on. However, there is another issue that I think is also important in relation to a strategy for raw materials, and that is what it is basically for a law on raw materials that we have and what it is for the exercise of authority in this area, where it is the case that there are, in fact, some that I see it, inappropriate things politically, in terms of how the law on raw materials is drafted, in terms of how we can act politically. I am thinking specifically of this in relation to the regions, where, when I am not sitting here in the Folketing, I am actually chairing the committee working on raw materials and raw materials plans in one of the regions. So I'm also thinking that there's kind of one thing there that needs to be included in our understanding of this. As was also mentioned by the SF's rapporteur, the proposal here appears rather as if it is a corner of the matter, because, as I have said, raw materials are both at sea and on land, and the whole discussion about the possibilities of reuse and reuse is not so prominent, I think, in the proposal. But of course you can say that is just a writing process, and that you can get over it again. Then there is no funding in it either, and that is why we have to say that, as it stands here, we support the intentions, but we will not vote in favour of the proposal. Whether it is the case, as was also mentioned by the SF, that one can imagine that we can write a report on it, I will not rule out that one can do it, because that is what is at stake, and I think we all have some wish that we will actually have a strategy for this work and that we will have a more up-to-date both legislation and the organisation of the whole question of how and where we are getting and extracting raw materials.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426165728	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Gitte Willumsen, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426165741	The Left has tabled a motion for a resolution which we are debating today, which is that we should draw up a material strategy for the supply of Danish raw materials for construction and industry. The Danish Parliament has decided on a number of construction projects, including in relation to roads and bridges. In order for them to become reality, large quantities of raw materials are really required. These are huge amounts of stone, gravel, sand, etc., when it comes to building these roads. I once spoke to a road engineer, and she told me that the road box on the major roads, where there is very heavy traffic, is up to 1 m deep. Then you can start multiplying by length, width and height, as we learned at school, and then you'll get an astronomical number for how many cubic meters you need. Then you can find the mass, if you want to. Moving's gonna be really heavy. So the Left's proposal that we should find raw materials close to construction is very well thought out. The transport of building materials will derive large amounts of CO2 In the Conservative People's Party, we ourselves have been working on a national strategy in this area back in 2020. We wanted better coordination between the regions and the state and, at the same time, better use of raw materials in the most sustainable and least cost-effective way. We are particularly concerned with strengthening the planning phase so that citizens know when to potentially dig raw materials in their local area. We are thinking that this proposal is visionary in that Denmark will have a national resource strategy in line with that of the European Union. So the Conservative People's Party can support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426165959	Thank you very much to the Conservative rapporteur, there are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426170014	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Left for making this proposal. What we have to remember is that if we end up having to vote, it is the text of the proposal on which we are going to vote: the Danish Parliament is instructing the government during the current parliamentary year to initiate the preparation of a material strategy for the supply of Danish raw materials to construction and industry. ▪ I read that it must be both at sea and on land and re-use and all. That's what we read when we see this, because there's no doubt that we actually have a huge challenge. And it is also quite right, as other rapporteurs have said, that we need to make a sea plan. I think that most Danes have an idea that the sea is huge and there can be a shortage of space, and is there a lack of resources in relation to it? Yes, there is. We have a lot of activities when we look at the sea. Some have also mentioned the need to create artificial energy islands. We have mining and quarrying, such as: the proposal here is about; we have fishing; we have windmills; there is a lot of activity at sea. On the other hand, there are also on land. Most people probably also know an old gravel pit in the province that was converted into a recreational area, and why is it? Yes, it is because there are no more raw materials left. There is simply more gravel left in that gravel pit, and then you have started digging somewhere else. So there is simply a need for an overall view. When I read the proposal here, that overview is not limited by any framework, and there I really think the proposal is very open in terms of getting the government to convene such a debate. At any rate, it is important to open doors and then go into a room and talk about seaplanes in politics. But it will have to be some doors that are on the verge of getting the overall picture of what resources we have at sea; what are the resources we have on land; and what are the resources we can get by making recycling and recycling? So we are really very pleased with the proposal and indeed also with it, what should we say, an open approach that the proposal itself proposes. We do not see this as a restriction, we see that as an opening.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426170221	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426170225	Thank you. And thank you for receiving this proposal. I can then confirm that this is quite right. Well, we wanted this to be as open as possible, because we need to think about everything in such a strategy. But thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426170241	Thank you very much. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kasper Roug of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426170254	Thank you for that, President. It is good to see that the Social Democrats are still a little ahead of the Radicals here. There is no doubt that we must, of course, take care of our resources here in Denmark, and there is no doubt that we are in a climate crisis and in a natural crisis. In the future, of course, we must be able to continue to build our roads and houses and, of course, in order to do so, there must be raw materials. I would therefore also like to acknowledge that there are challenges when it comes to mining, both now and, of course, in the long term. According to the motion for a resolution put forward today, a material strategy for the supply of Danish raw materials to construction and industry is to be drawn up, and this sounds very recognizable. It does, of course, because last year we had a very similar resolution, including from the Left. Here the strategy was simply called a national raw material strategy. The arguments that I used with the Left last year will largely be the same as I am using this year. It is not because nothing has happened, but because, of course, we are still waiting for, among other things. a professional evaluation. I also recognise, of course, that there are some challenges that we face: whether it be for neighbours to experience nuisances at gravel pits, for regions that already have the challenges of recovering sufficient raw materials to meet their needs, or the fact that raw materials are not renewable resources. However, we have also taken steps, as I mentioned just now, to act on those challenges. In the sustainable construction strategy, we have agreed to create a knowledge base for safe and healthy reuse and recycling in the building industry, and to create a knowledge base for the longer-term use of non-renewable raw materials such as sand and gravel. During the debate on last year's motion for a resolution, the Social Democratic Party agreed with, among other things: Radical Left, SF and Enhedslisten that, when the knowledge base is in place, the parties will then decide which follow-up is appropriate, including taking a position on the issue of a national raw material strategy. We expect that knowledge base to be completed 2023 and, of course, we would still like that to be in place before defining what initiatives are necessary. That is why the Social Democrats will reject the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426170514	Thank you very much to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426170531	Thank you. It went very fast all of a sudden, and that's why I'm the last speaker, not because we've lost some members since last time. It happens sometimes. I was quite surprised that the Danish People's Party is coming at so late I thought it was because Mr. René Christensen was late, just like me. But that's how we jump up and down the line of speeches. I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. There is no doubt that this issue, in other words the need for raw materials and a strategy for raw materials, is also of concern to us. Last year, as far as I remember, the Left put forward a similar proposal, which we voted down with reference to the agreement on sustainable construction, in which we had just been given some technical preparatory work that could, of course, provide the basis for such a strategy. After both the agreement on sustainable construction, but also the discussion of that resolution last year, a number of decisions have been taken, with quite a lot of consequences for the raw materials requirements. An infrastructure plan, Lynetteholmen, natural parks, which has something to do with wood; it is also a kind of raw material, however different from sand and gravel, but it is also part of this issue. And that is why I would say that we are in a slightly different place now than we were last year. Last year we also thought there was a need, but there we thought we could wait until we had the knowledge base in 2023. Very patiently we are no longer, and that is why we would like to try to work on a report to which we hope to have broad support in the Folketing, both from the government, but also from the proposers, where we write in many of the points contained in the comments to the motion for a resolution, and possibly also some other points. In other words, we ourselves are very concerned about the entire tax structure, because for us it is not just a question of ensuring that there is gravel and sand enough; it is also a question of reducing the need for some of these raw materials and for the extraction of raw materials by means of the circular economy. So we hope that in committee we will be able to arrive at a report which is in the direction of the purpose of the resolution and which may also contain a little more, not least the one on the structure of taxation, which is mentioned a little in the comments, but where we may have even more to heart. And then we hope that this report can help push the process so that we will not wait as long as possibly 2024 until we have such a strategy, too, so that we create an increased awareness in the future about the need for raw materials when we make decisions. Unfortunately, there is such a rather unfortunate context that it may be rapporteurs in quite other areas who take decisions and that it is suddenly politicians in the regions or environmental rapporteurs who will then have to decide on the consequences in relation to the raw materials they need to take decisions which have therefore been taken in a completely different context. That is why I also think that this area calls for a slightly wider context, in which, when infrastructure decisions are made or decisions are made about nature, we also have to consider our decision on national parks and untouched forests in relation to raw materials, and that we can initiate initiatives which can also reduce the need for raw materials recovery by speeding up the circular economy in the construction sector. So with those words, I would say that we cannot support this proposal, but we would like to work very constructively on it with the proposers and also very much with the government, so that we can land a report that puts turbo on this process and in this way actually makes a difference to what is the track that has been laid out now, so that we will only have to take a position on this issue in a few years' time. There we agree with the proposers that we cannot wait for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426171011	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The last rapporteur is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426171027	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the debate and support of several people to all or part of the resolution, as I hear it. In the Left, we believe that we need to have a much better and better overview of the resources and materials we use. Politically, we agree on an agreement across political positions, often where resources are available. In June 2021, for example, all parties in the Folketing entered into the parliament. agreement on infrastructure plan 2035, an agreement of the order of 170 billion. kr., and there are the Fehmarn Belt connection and many other major construction projects. It goes without saying that it is resource-intensive, material-intensive. In April 2021, the national strategy for sustainable construction also received broad support in the Folketing. Both agreements are about necessary, crucial infrastructure in transport, construction and construction... necessary for Denmark's cohesion, a future assurance of Denmark, and necessary for the sustainable development of construction and necessary contribution to achieve our common ambition for CO2 But where should the resources come from? What is to be built of now and in the future when there is no comprehensive material strategy for our resources, both the new and the sustainable recyclable? How are we to ensure that we have access to materials, raw materials, both those from the underground in the form of rocks and gravel and those who grow up from the ground, the trees in our forests • wood that allows for CO2 That is what is needed. It is necessary that we look together at our need for resources for everything we want, everything we agree on construction and construction, and that, as a matter of course, we see it in the context of climate, biodiversity and sustainability. We must, of course, be able to trade materials across national borders. Trade is an advantage for Denmark, but we can and must also ensure our own production and a level of supply close to the place of use with less transport, less CO2 The prices of building materials have exploded. Many citizens, public and private, have had to be true, with the result that for example. construction of housing needed will be put in the drawer, among other things. general housing. And several are again becoming aware of the importance of the fact that we here in Denmark have a co-responsibility in relation to security of supply. We in the Left also believe that it may be wise to return to the raw materials tax so that the incentive for local authorities to bid is increased and it is possible that there are other taxes. We're completely open to looking at that. In the European Union there is work on a resource strategy, of course, I would like to say. The need for this has not diminished by the war in Ukraine, without everything being fixed on the fact that we are once again faced with a war in Europe. However, securing resources has now become much more urgent. We need recovery to be organized with places of use and therefore distances in mind. As I said, it is about a CO2 Left wishing to involve the relevant stakeholders, the raw materials industry in construction, the forestry industry and the wood-based industry, and not least municipalities and regions, so that planning can be carried out on a coherent basis and with necessary coordination, for example. a forest plan. If we can agree to use the resources, and we have been able to do so, then we should also be able to agree to ensure the same, and time matters. Those were the words from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426171434	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426171438	I think it is very good that we sit down and try to make a joint report. For some of what I hear, I'm gonna be very happy to hear, and then there's something where I get a little worried. Because there is both something about building a lot, and there just needs to be enough raw materials, but I also hear that climate and biodiversity are part of the reason for wanting this strategy. That is why we would like to look at the tax ourselves, and that is why I am of course very pleased when I hear an opening to look at various taxes. I would therefore like to try to test a thought on the rapporteur of the Left, namely: could it be imagined that this tax could also be used, indeed, not only to create an incentive for recycling etc., but also to restore some of the nature that suffers damage through very intensive extraction of raw materials?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426171528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426171529	Well, you can imagine all sorts of things, and I think it's something you have to sit down and talk about, so you really grow what you think about. But what I think is crucial is that our resources, our land, our sea areas are not unlimited and that the way we use them is whether we use them wisely or we use them less wisely. An example that I think is quite positive, which stands today in the Stock Exchange and it's just a small, fun example, but it's important that a number of companies start to see land around their production facilities as land they can set aside for biodiversity. I am just thinking, and I hear that there is a willingness for us to have a shared responsibility for also having to speed up this attempt to see how we can use our land wisely, while at the same time ensuring that the materials for all the construction that the rapporteur mentions, which is something we have agreed together, including with the Radical Left, are present.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426171636	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426171638	But it is quite true that we ourselves have also helped to make many decisions which create a great deal of pressure and demand for raw materials. But that is also why we look at how, when we pull gravel out of the ground with one hand or suck sand out of the sea, with the other hand, we can help restore the nature that suffers damage. That is why I would just like to ask once again: could it be imagined that such a logic could be envisaged, so that the nature that suffers from the damage caused by the extraction of raw materials can we also have a recovery plan for such a raw materials strategy, possibly through the return of some of the funds we get from the raw materials tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426171726	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426171727	In order not to repeat my answer earlier, I can say that there is already planning for how to restore. I mean, when, for example... If an area is laid out for gravel gravel, there is also a plan for how this area is to be restored. So, yes, I think you should be willing to try to meet each other as much as you can and try to talk about solutions and what is already possible today, so things are being immersed. So I cannot give a clear answer to what is being asked exactly, but I think you should have a willingness to try to see how we can meet.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426171802	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426171814	The debate is open. First we give the floor to the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426171830	Thank you. After all, it is a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party which would like to impose on the government the obligation to ensure the natural basis of our maritime cultural heritage by establishing 10%. untouched sea. And reference is made, among other things. to the fact that the establishment of these areas is essential to restoring marine biodiversity and that the sea in certain parts of the Danish marine area needs to be fully protected against all exploitation, such as: fishing, mining and quarrying, etc., And just to clarify what is important to the government and where we stand, I would say that the sea has been neglected for decades and not many have given life under the surface a thought. Today we know that the resources of the sea are not endless and the problem does not disappear with the ocean currents. The sea is part of our DNA in Denmark. I grew up with the Baltic around me, and I am proud of our history as a maritime nation. That is why I am also glad that what the motion for a resolution expresses, namely that we want to put the sea and biodiversity on the agenda, also fills the proposers. It's one of the things that both I and the rest of the government are preoccupied with. With the maritime plan that we are currently negotiating with the parties of the Danish Parliament and which we have just started up, we want to lift the bar for the marine environment in Denmark. So there must be both protected areas and for the first time also strictly protected areas or untouched sea, as it is also called. Therefore, as part of this year's financial agreement with SF, Radical Left, Enhedslisten and the Christian Democrats, it is also agreed that on the basis of the consultation proposals we will negotiate a comprehensive marine plan with the Danish Parliament's parties to set an ambitious and sustainable direction for the Danish marine area and with the important point that there must be a stronger focus on nature protection. So we are, of course, right now where we have started the negotiations, and that is why I am naturally looking forward to continuing that dialogue with the parties of the Folketing precisely on how to ensure the protection of nature in the marine plan. And there is nature my starting point and what I have eyes clearly on, but the marine plan is not the only area where it is important to us either. We are also working on the programme of action, which is part of Denmark's second marine strategy. We are also talking about something that we talk about with the Danish Parliament's parties, and where we bring together the wide range of efforts needed to strengthen our marine environment. And just to mention a few of the most important efforts in addition to the marine plan, we have also decided in the Danish Finance Act 2022 to set up two marine natural parks in Øresund and Lillebælt, a trawl-free zone in the Bælthaven, and funds have been set aside for the restoration of rock reefs. We have also decided, as part of the funds contained in the nature and biodiversity package, also with the red majority, to give money to a new Danish research centre for marine nature recovery and also for the restoration of stone reefs. And then there are other effects in the action programme that have a direct or indirect effect on the marine environment. It could be the river basin management plans, where we also have a very ambitious objective in terms of reducing nutrient emissions to our waters. We have drawn up a strategy for environmentally hazardous substances to reduce pollution of the aquatic environment. Or it could be the things that lie in the plastic action plan as a ban on thin plastic carrier bags to help prevent plastic waste from ending up in our marine environment. So it is the government's view that we must both take good care of the marine environment and that we must ensure that there is the balance for which I think everyone agrees that our marine area should be able to accommodate. That is why, in addition to the protection of nature, there is also renewable energy, for example. It has been filling a lot lately, and it is very important that we ensure it. But there is also sailing, there are defences, there are business interests; there are many considerations. And if all these considerations are to be taken into account, it also requires priorities, because although the sea may seem almost infinitely large, indeed, our ambitions in several areas are also great, and that is not all that can coexist. So we must take care of biodiversity, but we also know that the sea plays a major role in resolving the climate crisis. That is why I am also glad that, with the Finance Law parties, we were given funding to establish a new public-private partnership to promote precisely the coexistence of infrastructure for the benefit of the climate and the sake of nature and biodiversity. That partnership must include, among other things: develop better bird data and establish new technologies and knowledge on coexistence between the development of renewable energy and natural and environmental considerations. However, as most of us also agree, Ukraine and the Putin war have also added a new aspect. It is the government's view that the green energy conversion needs to be even more speedy so that we can free ourselves from the Russian gas altogether. So the expansion of sea winds is also crucial in relation to the future marine plan. That is why, as I said, these are important debates that we have taken up, not in this Chamber, but in the debates that we started on Friday, and I am looking forward to some good discussions on that as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172426	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172430	Thank you for that; and, in fact, thank you for the approach to it. It is true, then, that it is often the case here in the Folketing that there is a motion for a resolution, and then there are some debates just now. That is how it can be used differently, and it is very good that we are now getting these negotiations started. The green organisations have actually said that we should have at least 10%. of the sea as untouched area. And it must also be said that it is not really very much. Then I fully agree with the Minister, and I also said it in my previous rapporteur's speech, where I spoke about raw materials ■ that when you stand and look at it, the sea is a huge area, and you think that there is probably not much going on out there because you only see the blue surface. But there's a lot going on below sea level. The Øresund is the good example. We need some more examples, such as the Øresund, and I suppose that is what the Minister will be proposing in the negotiations that are coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172525	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172526	Yes, well, the parties are always free to make motions for resolutions, but we already agreed back in the financial agreement that we wanted these negotiations on the marine plan with a strengthened nature protection. So it is clear that this is what is also important for the parties that concluded the financial law agreement, that this is also the result we will end up with. However, I believe that the reason why it is also sensible to negotiate the sea plan in the ministries, and it is after all the Ministry of Business that sits at the top of the table, but, of course, must take account of the environmental and climate aspects and some of the other considerations that are there, is that we should have everything. This shows the example of the rapporteur, that is to say that the Danish Nature Conservation Association and the fishermen, whom I myself have met and have signed up to, have, in fact, also entered into the fight here. What is not with us just to take one example is all the renewable energy that we are also talking about. And that only shows that we need to get it all on the table, and that is exactly what the negotiations are supposed to help us with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172629	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172631	Yes, but it should also be remembered that the government came up with a proposal in which it said 4.1 per cent.; that is, the government that calls itself greener than red. Sometimes it's a little reverse, because then you're more red than green. But then it was said that it would be 4.1%. We think that is simply too little. We believe that we should find land, so that 10%. by the sea becomes untouched area. We also believe that we are obliged to do so in relation to the debate we have just had, that the sea will be the new place where we really need to have a great deal of human influence. There we also have to say now that there are some places where that influence should not be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172711	Our marine environment is under pressure, and that is also why I tried to mention a number of the initiatives that we have launched as a government. There is a new green majority, and we are proud that steps are being taken all the time to make things better. This also applies to our marine environment. Then it is true that there is a plan for the sea in consultation now that, among other things, there is now. For the first time ever, this is a strict protection. But we have also said that the result we must end up with in relation to the marine plan, among other things. It is also in relation to renewable energy, which the Danish People's Party's rapporteur did not just mention, which is also important here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172749	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172752	Thank you to the Minister for the speech here. I am also looking forward to the ongoing negotiations on the marine plan. As the Minister says, we are just getting started here last week. Now the Minister mentions that the reason why we are debating the marine plan is because it was agreed in the Finance Act. My question, then, is: why should we actually agree on this in the Finance Act before we could negotiate on the marine plan? Couldn't the government have just invited some negotiations on the plan of the sea, regardless of what was agreed in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172818	What we have agreed in the Finance Act is not just that we should have negotiations. What is in the text of the agreement that we, as I mentioned, have done with both the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Christian Democrats, is that we must have a strengthened nature protection in the marine plan, and that is among other things. what the negotiations are supposed to help us get. I think that is a very good objective to go out of a financial agreement with, that is to say, in addition to all the specific initiatives I also mentioned the marine natural parks, which are not something we have in today's Denmark, so this is also a common wish, and that is what we are going to go to the negotiations with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172902	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172903	Well, I think it is a noble objective to go to a sea plan debate with the aim of making it better for the marine environment. I think that must be very good, with a glimpse in my eye, of course, because I assume that is a matter of course. But it was more a question of why the government did not just invite you to negotiations on the plan of the sea. Why should we, it might be said, make an agreement to have to start some negotiations? Couldn't the government just invite without it being in a finance bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172925	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426172927	Well, I understand that the Left thinks it would be nice to be part of a financial agreement. After all, I note that there was certainly not much effort there for the marine environment, when you yourself were in government. I'm happy with the Financial Law Agreement that's in place. I also think that these are some good negotiations that we have started up, also quite broadly in the Folketing, in relation to getting Denmark's first marine plan, where we ensure that we both strengthen nature protection, but also gain a look for, for example, the expansion of renewable energy. If we are to have room for this, it is complicated and therefore it is a very good idea to have ministries with us with all the good professionals who can help us with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426173003	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. There are no more brief comments, so we are starting with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, sir. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426173012	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for an opportunity to focus on a larger natural area, namely the sea, which we are now discussing here in Parliament today. There is no doubt that just below the surface it is, of course, rushing with life, and it is also, as it has been for many years, under severe pressure. We must, of course, take this seriously, and we must, of course, act on it. Social democracy shares the intention to protect our seas much better. After all, in our proposal on the sea, which has just been consulted, we have proposed an increase in the protection of the sea, from 19%. 30 per cent. of the sea area. So this is an important move anyway. Last week we started negotiations on the marine plan and in those negotiations we need to focus on how we can set an ambitious and sustainable direction for the Danish marine area and how we can have a strong focus on nature protection. We have already taken initiatives to increase the protection of our seas. We have, for example. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. kr. for the establishment of marine natural parks in Øresund and Lillebælt. We have agreed to establish a trawl-free zone in the Belt Sea to cover Lillebælt, Storebælt and Langelandsbælt. And we have repeatedly set aside millions of dollars to restore the stone reefs. We have agreed on these initiatives in good cooperation with, among others, the Commission. Radical Left, SF and Enhedslisten, and all the initiatives contribute to creating a better marine environment. Despite the fact that I share the intention of the proposers to take better care of our seas and species living in the sea, I naturally reject today's motion for a resolution. Indeed, we have started negotiations on the marine plan, and I believe that it is within this framework that we should discuss the use of our marine area. We must take the protection of our seas very seriously. I look forward to the debate on the motion for a resolution later in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426173223	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426173227	I will be very brief. Now I have heard both the speeches by the Minister and the rapporteur, but what is proposed in this way is not where they are 10%. I need to be there. What is actually being proposed is to take a decision in principle that it should be at least 10%. Well, 90 percent. of the sea we can use, but there are 10%, we leave behind to nature. Does the rapporteur think that this resolution is very far-reaching?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426173253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426173254	In view of the fact that we have never laid down areas for protected areas in marine waters, that is far - reaching. There is no doubt about that. And so it is if smaller areas are now laid out for untouched areas of the sea area. So, yes, that is a far-reaching proposal. It is difficult and complicated, and that is also why we need to have such a broad majority in the Folketing to support the construction of untouched sea areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426173319	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426173321	Although the rapporteur thinks this is far-reaching, does the rapporteur not think that, in the case of the sea, it is just as much about nature and biodiversity and beauty as it does when we speak country? After all, we have seen it in relation to what the rapporteur also has in his rapporteur's speech, namely the Øresund, from which we have together and the government have set aside funds, and I would very much like to sign for that. There you can really see that when an area has been left untouched for about 100 years, you get a completely different life at the bottom of the sea, fish stocks and other things. So this whole thing about having some places that are untouched is of great value.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426173358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426173359	Thank you for your comment. At least I look forward to seeing DF's proposals on where they are 10 per cent. We need to be on our feet, in relation to the negotiations. This could be taken into account in relation to the sea plan negotiations. The rapporteur also mentions Øresund as an example in an area where there was no marine environment, and this is precisely a trawl-free area, and the government has already pointed out very large areas and especially areas in the Belt Sea for trawl-free areas, and I am, of course, very pleased that DF intends to support trawl-free areas in the Belt Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426173431	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. And then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426173445	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for focusing on this area, which is a very, very important area. And, as both the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur have said, we have just begun the political negotiations on a sea plan here last week. And we look forward very much to being a large part of that, hopefully. Because it is true, as has been said, that there has probably been a tendency, when you look beyond the great blue ocean, that you then think that everything is joy and old and that it looks comfortable. But when you look down below the surface, including marine biologist glasses, there are of course also some major challenges, which I think we all share the view that we should have done something about. After all, we in Denmark are never longer than about 50 km from the sea, so you can say that this is something that we can all relate to in a maritime country like Denmark. We have also noted, as has been mentioned, that the Danish Fisheries Association and Denmark's Nature Conservation Association, as usual, are not necessarily entirely agreed on everything, yet they have come together here last spring on a joint initiative in order to protect 10%. of the Danish sea area. It is clear that there will then be a professional assessment and discussion, and that has also been done about where the 10%. I would like to know whether it is now the right place and what consideration has been given to it. But I think it is a good idea that you like to go out with two starting points, which are so slightly different, and then say: okay, can we find some common denominator? I think that is very positive. And it is also an intention that we share. We also agree with the proposers' point that the further process of deciding to place the areas should be carried out in close cooperation with relevant organisations, researchers and experts, who know the most about the marine environment, so that we can ensure that we have the right balance and therefore also the right consideration, so that we can both ensure a very good and forward-looking commercial fishing and also look at how we can achieve the environmental protection that is being demanded. It is true, as has been said, that the sea may seem great, but I think that if you add all the wishes and demands for different activities at sea together, there will be wishes for an area of the sea that will be twice as large as the Danish area or even more. This applies, of course, not least to renewable energy, which we are all working to achieve more on energy islands and offshore wind farms, and so on, but also to the cables that will then flow ashore. There are also some restrictions on what can be placed so close to them. There are shipping routes to be freed. There is, of course, fishing and there is tourism. There are, as was mentioned in the previous proposal, mining and aquaculture. There are also seaweeds and mussels that also require space, although not so much. And, as the Minister also mentioned, there is the defence, which has not, of course, become less relevant in recent times and which must also have some places where they can carry out their exercises. And then on the negative side, you might say, some of the things we are talking about at the moment, including flapping, that is to say, the handling of excavated sludge in different ways. Unfortunately, there are also waste water and overflows, which are also a burden on our marine environment. And, moreover, there are other forms of nutrition from production, including from agriculture and also from other productions. So there are really many issues to be dealt with and priorities to be given to them. And there I fully agree with what the Minister for the Environment said in his speech, namely that there is no room for everything, and we need to have proper priorities and proper planning of these things. We are very concerned on the part of the Left precisely to have what is called co-existence where it can be done, that is, where one can have, one might say, several purposes on the same area. There are places where it can be done and there are places where it cannot be done. Of course, we are also very concerned about the places where there is a huge environmental benefit to be gained. It is typically inland, i.e. coastal places where there is a lot of activity with fish and other things. That is also why, of course, rock reefs are being made, and we also need to restore some of the places where they have been removed over the years. I have also been told that there is, in fact, a coexistence between what is normally seen as two contradictions: on the one hand the environmental conditions and, on the other hand, the climatic conditions, that is, in the sense that if you do something good and ensure that the water is more clearly below the surface of the low areas, then up to 5-6 metres of sea depth, then eelgrass and seaweed plants etc. actually could record a really, really large amount of CO2 so there is very, very good to say about the sea, but we damn well should take good care of it too. And that is why this proposal is a good proposal and we look forward to discussing it further during the committee work. And then we'll see how we can land it. It is also clear, as the Minister says, that we are engaged in some negotiations, and of course we must also take stock of that in committee when we look at it here. But thank you from my side for the time being.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426173952	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426173956	I would just like to sign for a very comprehensive rapporteur's speech. That tells us very well that there are huge interests out there at sea. I would also like to say that our proposal is not, of course, about bothering some of those who have their activities at sea, or about keeping some windmills or some fishermen away. It's all about protecting nature. So it's very important that you get that balance done. As the rapporteur rightly says, we can imagine that for the next 20-25 years there will simply be so much activity that there will be too much activity. That is why it is very important that either the motion for a resolution makes a decision in principle as to whether it should be 10% or does so in the negotiations. I would say, with the experience I have from the Folketing, that it is best to do so in the negotiations. We hope, of course, that will happen. After all, there are still a number of speakers missing, but I also think the Minister welcomed the proposal nicely. But the Left also looks at it in that way, when you talk about the 10%, it is not to, what should you say, push fishermen away or push other activity away, then it is to protect nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426174100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426174102	Yes, that is how I see it, and that is why, as I said, it is in some way historic that fishermen go along with the DN to find a decision of principle, as I think they have called it. They have also pointed to some areas, but of course there has been a technical discussion about whether these are the right areas with an environmental perspective, as well as I think there are in fisheries circles, in relation to whether they are the right areas with a commercial fisheries perspective. This is precisely the discussion which I think these negotiations are now being set up and which we have started to make a contribution to in order to find the right balance and the right priorities. Because I think it's about planning, and it's about priorities. We can't have it all, and we can't demand it all from our oceans. We can't. That is why there is something more important than anything else. However, in relation to cases where we can have both, for example in relation to the question of where we should place a offshore wind farm, it is wiser to place it in a place where it has fewer environmental consequences than to put it in a place where it actually has major environmental consequences, because it may be a place where there are birds foraging or where there are other things that are particularly protected. So it's just to say: Planning and prioritization are the key words of this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426174206	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it is the rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426174216	Thank you. I am speaking today on behalf of our rapporteur, who unfortunately could not be here today. He is a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, so I have to be content. This is an important subject which will be addressed with this resolution. As described in the comments, the Danish sea area has been under great pressure over a long period of time and too much pressure. This has resulted in an ocean that is overloaded in many ways. It comes, among other things. In many places the ecological balance is too poor, especially in coastal areas. In many places, we are experiencing loss of oxygen with great loss of biodiversity. This can lead to the collapse of ecosystems around the country with potentially incalculable consequences. It is therefore vital that we take greater care of our marine environment and stop the harmful behaviour that has allowed business interests to overrule our common resources for decades. The special thing about the sea is also that much of the destruction that has happened and is still happening is not visible to the naked eye, as it is not just about the wave blue, but about the seabed. For this reason, we in the SF are also very pleased that the Danish Finance Act 2022 finally succeeded in taking important steps to protect precisely the seabed with the trawl-free areas in the Belt Seas and two marine natural parks. We look forward very much to implementing that part of the Finance Act and, above all, to taking many more steps to protect our portrait. These are also the themes that we in the SF want to address during the negotiations just started on Denmark's first marine plan and, of course, the marine strategy's programme of action, which is what governs the marine plan. Here we have a unique opportunity to take account of nature, which we have clearly not done so far. Precisely because we have that opportunity with the sea plan negotiations, we cannot, as a starting point, vote in favour of this proposal either, in other words because it is somewhat overtaken by the negotiations. We have been waiting for them for so long, but of course we are also ready to be involved in the work of the committee, and gladly with a text which stresses the need for much more protection. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426174450	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426174453	Just very briefly: the Social Democrat rapporteur said that the proposal that 10% should be set out in principle. of the sea area to be untouched, is very far-reaching. Does the rapporteur also think that it is very far-reaching and that it is perhaps almost too much?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426174510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426174511	I am not going to stand here and count on it, but I think that we are precisely responding to the resolution by also stating that we agree that there is a need for us to protect the sea and that we have both given priority to the sea in the Finance Act, but also look forward to the sea negotiations that we are all waiting for and where we may also have the opportunity to translate some of these things. We look forward to these discussions. But we also think it makes sense to have this discussion here in committee, possibly with a view to a report and there we will also have the opportunity to discuss target figures or non-target figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426174551	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. There are no more brief comments. Then the Radical Left rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426174607	Thank you. We support the demand for 10%. untouched or strictly protected sea. And that is quite what the resolution is about. This is, for us, an absolutely essential requirement in the negotiations that we are ahead of, both on the marine plan, but also on the maritime strategy. Another main requirement in these negotiations is that the location of these 10%. untouched sea shall be carried out from or on the basis of research, data and biodiversity considerations. It is, in fact, the only catch in this motion for a resolution that is that business interests are highlighted in the comments. Now the comments are not binding on such a proposal, but the comments actually contain a proposal for a procedure, and that makes the hair a little bit on us. It says, of course, that green organisations and green researchers must be consulted, but it also says that business interests must be involved. And it's just pretty important for us to make it clear that when it comes to the appointment of these 10%. Untouched sea, this must be done solely for the sake of biodiversity; for there may well be scratches on the areas where biodiversity is greatest, i.e. where fish breed. I do not know whether business interests will agree that such areas should be considered untouched, because there too there are great values. It may be, we don't know. So we are a little bit sceptical about the wording of the comments. On the other hand, I have to say that now that the comments are not binding and now that we can sense a certain drift in the government in relation to the 10%, we might be tempted to vote in favour of this proposal, because it is then a premise for the negotiations. Because it is absolutely right that we are facing some negotiations and isn't this the wrong order? On the other hand, we could be a little concerned when all the requests for the use of the sea come to the table, because then we suddenly find ourselves in a situation where it is difficult to find the 10%, and then it could be that it was only 7%. That is why we could be tempted to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, because then it is a premise for the negotiations. I think that what we are trying first and foremost to work towards is a report that beats the 10%. But if we are going to get rid of the business interests or at least agree that they are not the ones who have to decide where they are here 10%. Untouched sea is going to lie down, I'm not supposed to be able to say. However, if we can find each other in a report where the number 10 is established, but perhaps also with a little more words about what is then the basis for the designation, and that is therefore respect for biodiversity and not business interests, then I think we have made a very good mark on the negotiations we are facing. There is just no doubt in us that it is the environment and climate that are the most important consideration in the negotiations on the marine plan, which then also has a lot of other considerations. However, in this context, there should just be no doubt that biodiversity and climate are the most important factors.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426174951	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426174955	Thank you. I almost agree with everything, but certainly not all of it. The challenge here is that it will be difficult to find the 10%. I think that was reflected both in the previous motion for a resolution and also in the previous rapporteurs, and the Minister also said so well. There are very many interests when we look at the use of the sea in relation to it. That's also why it's so important to find the 10%. And put them out now. We cannot come back afterwards and stand and say that these are the sins of the past, and now we are going to clean up, because then it has happened on our watch. So we have to pinpoint the 10%. Now. However, what amazes me a little is that the rapporteur says in this way that business interests should not be involved. That is why we have to take the decision in principle on the 10%, because it has to be 10%, and we would very much like to have a dialogue on this with all the interested fishermen, the green organisations, those who have to set up wind turbines, those who have to get the raw materials out of the land, etc. etc. But we have to end up with 10%. We in the Danish People's Party believe that we are obliged to do so, otherwise we will find ourselves in a situation where we do not reach it, and then we have made the sins of the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426175059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426175100	Yeah, but it just doesn't matter what it is for 10 percent. And maybe that's where we might not be in sync anyway. For us, it is absolutely crucial that it is where there is most biodiversity, mostly life now, and that is probably also where it is most attractive to fish, for example, unless you as a fisherman are very forward-looking. I think there are many who can see that some breeding grounds are also needed if there are to be large fish that can then later be pulled out of the water. That is why I actually have the expectation that we can have a good and constructive dialogue with the industry about it. But there can only be no doubt that when it comes to the appointment, then yes, the 10%. is crucial, but it is also absolutely crucial that we appoint the 10%. on the basis of data, research and biodiversity • not professions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426175152	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426175154	That is where politics gets a little weird, because we do not want to point out anything that has no value. Why point out something that has no value? It wouldn't matter. Of course, what is being appointed must be something of value. But with the society that we have and we can make broad agreements, I think it is just important to involve as many parties as possible so that everyone can see themselves in such an agreement. Everyone is going to compromise if we are going to appoint 10 per cent. Whether it becomes the very best places in terms of biodiversity or not, one will compromise anyway. And then I fully agree that the areas must be of value when they are designated. But I would like to say that we are still clinging to the fact that all the parties involved must also be part of the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426175238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426175240	Yes, and then we'll see if we can land a report. I mean, we're kind of split right now between being tempted on the one hand to vote yes, because then we have the 10%. On the other hand, we are a little concerned that if we vote in favour of the 10%, then perhaps it is not the right 10%. So that is at least what we will look into in the further work of the committee. The wish scenario is then a report where we agree on the 10%, and we also agree that the 10%. shall be designated for the sake of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426175307	Then it's mr. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426175310	Thank you for that and thank you for a good speech by the rapporteur. Now it's 10%. I guess that's what's important. I can't quite understand why there's suddenly 10%. Why not 8%, why not 9%, 4%, 2%, 15%? Why is that exactly 10%??
ParlaMint-DK_20220426175331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426175332	Well, it could be 20%. I think that would be very difficult at the same time as all the other interests that are at stake. But the input we get from the green organisations is, of course, that 10%. strictly protected untouched sea is enough to create the basis for good biodiversity. Then we also have the 20% which is also protected to some extent, and if we then have the 100 per cent which then still have to be regulated, but where you can use the sea, then that is the key that we have gone further, not least because it comes from the green organisations, which still leaves room for exploitation. It's not some hippie strategy where all the oceans are left untouched. In fact, it is a strategy in which only 10% are left untouched. The rest can be used to some extent, and we think that is actually quite pragmatic. Therefore, under no circumstances do we want to go below 10% when there is talk of untouched sea. That's where we have to deliver on the 10%.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426175433	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no more brief comments, and then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426175442	The Enhedslisten looks very seriously at the natural and biodiversity crisis in which our portrait is in the middle of it. That is why it has also been a very central demand from us that the marine plan we are developing should be ecosystem-based and, like it, focus on the carrying capacity of portrait. In this context, it has been our approach and we have talked a great deal about percentages here • that we support what has come from the Danish Nature Conservation Association and others, that there should actually be 30%. protected sea, and of the 30%. There must be 10%, which is heavily protected or strictly protected, as it is here in this. So it's really bigger. But that doesn't mean that the 70% that's left can just be plowed up as you like. It will still be the case that we also believe that the 100 per cent figure is the same. We need to get in and lay down rules and a framework for how we use it. Because it is true that there are a great many stakeholders. As recently as a few days ago, the government itself came up with a proposal that we should have 30%. of the sea to produce renewable energy at. This may be very sensible, but it just means that suddenly it is also a very large area that is like being involved. Then, of course, there is the discussion that we also have in the context of the marine plan on whether there is any possibility of coexistence in different areas, where it is the case that the different interests may well be present at the same time, or at least to some extent. And you can make some other types of protection, for example. in relation to fishing? Now we talked a lot about fishing, and so I agree with the remarks made by the radical rapporteur that the proposal is a little heavy in terms of focusing on the fact that we have some fishing or trawling or something that is one of the most harmful forms of fishing. But that is why there may well be some coexistence, and it may also be that we have the possibility of some regulation, where we go in and look at how the different interests should be present, what kind of fishing we want is to talk about sustainable fishing, the talk about whether there are certain zones, areas where it is the case that we do not want any fisheries at all to protect biodiversity, perhaps to protect a fish stock, to protect if there are breeding grounds for fish where they are, like, to grow up. So there are such different considerations that you can put in on top of that and then say: well, there may still be a fishing industry, but we also have to set a framework for how things are going. So the proposal is really, if you take what I say, a proposal that is too narrow in relation to the task we actually have in relation to the marine plan. In my view, this does not go far enough in terms of what we actually need and which I also believe is what we are debating in relation to the marine plan. Again about the thing about our marine plan: if that's how it's going to work and we also have to have space for an area of 30 percent. for wind energy, the extraction of renewable energy at sea, we support it as a thought. We are also in favour of the creation of energy islands and, as I said, we are also in favour of having some areas which are, as it were, heavily protected. However, as was also mentioned by the radical rapporteur, it does not make sense to us if it is the case that those 20 plus 10%, which I spoke about at the beginning, have been taken out in some places which are very, very barren in biodiversity, that is to say, if it is the case that you say that you pick some people out and say: these are strictly protected; although there is no life in the sea, what is not is strictly protected. That doesn't make any sense. That is why it is clear that, in this area too, we need to give space to nature, give priority to the marine environment and portrait in some contexts, even if it is a place where there may be a lot of life to catch fish. Now I see that the President thinks I have used my speaking time, so I would just like to say in conclusion that we cannot support the proposal as it stands here. We're going to take the things I said here, too, the 10%. strictly protected areas are included in the negotiations on the marine plan. And I therefore hope that the Danish People's Party will also show up for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180015	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment. Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180017	I can confirm to the rapporteur that, of course, we will also be attending the negotiations on a sea plan. I would just like to say, both in relation to the radical rapporteur and now also here, that when you read the proposal and what we have written at the very end we have written why we want to do this... you can see that we have written: "The further process, among other things. with decisions on the location of the areas, must be carried out in close interaction with green organisations, researchers and other experts working in depth with the marine environment, in order to ensure the greatest possible biodiversity impact in the areas. Blue Denmark must be heard. Actually, that's what we've been writing. So we have not written that we would like to point out some deserts out there and then say that we have designated that as nature. That is not what we want. And I very much agree that this proposal does not deal with the marine plan, because the marine plan is, of course, what you need to use it 90 per cent. to. But it was like getting this strong mandate for when you go into that sea plan discussion, because it becomes a priority. As several rapporteurs have said, there is something we cannot do. We have a feeling that we can do it all, but there is something where we have to say that we have to give priority to that and that we cannot do it there. We must not forget nature there, and we absolutely believe that 10%. Must be a minimum.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180129	Well, I also hope that the government hears that there is a voice here, including the voice of the DF, which, as such, points in the direction that we should have 10%. That is a good thing, and in this way it can be said that this proposal in this sense can also help to push the right way, and I would like to sign for that. However, I think that the proposal is a little too narrow in its scope. And then I understand that the text says that you want to hear all sorts of different things, and I agree with that too, but what is the problem is who is the main aim, and there you might get the feeling that, like those who are part of some of the most devastating of the fishing industry that takes precedence over the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180234	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180236	In short, and I will also remember that this is going to be a question, I would like to say that it will not be easy with the many interests that exist and the decision will be neither the fishermen's, the energy companies' nor the raw materials' input; it will be ours. After all, it will be 90 mandates to ensure that we have the areas where windmills will be used, that we have the areas where we want nature and that we have the areas where we can continue fishing, and this means that some people will have some restrictions. So the responsibility lies in here, and that is also why I am happy enough for today's debate, because when the government has started by designating and saying that it will only appoint 4.1 per cent, we will end up being the sinners of the past if we do not get over the 4.1 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180316	Well, I totally agree that the 4.1 percent. absolutely is too unambitious in relation to our aim, so there we are in agreement. And it is also true, as the rapporteur says, that this will be a priority and that we will have to make it, and indeed there are enough interests to use our seas and our land more than once, and that is why it will certainly be the case that we come up with a priority where, of course, it will also be in that priority that we cannot make everyone happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180352	Thank you, sir. Bruno Jerup. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Enhedslisten. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180403	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. Not long ago, I saw an article that the government's marine plan needed an upsurge. For the marine plan launched by the government last year had barely come out of the harbour before both sail and ship had been pierced by criticism to say it unwrapped from everyone. After that, the shipwrecked sea plan lay deep beneath the surface of the water, waiting for a more seaworthy version, and we have continued to benefit from it. But after all, we started the negotiations last Friday and I listened that the government has gone away from throwing only a single bailout to the entire crew, i.e. that you can now find more untouched sea than the 4.1% that you have played out with. That is probably very good, because with the first initiative we are not really solving anything, and we are certainly not meeting the objectives of the EU biodiversity strategy either. Indeed, so little untouched sea will allow the deterioration of the underwater ecosystems to continue undisturbed, and that, of course, just does not last at all. If we do not radically redirect our exploitation of portrait, we will lose a large number of marine species and will do irreparable damage to the entire ecosystem. For under the surface of the sea there is a rich plant and wildlife that we are responsible for safeguarding, and therefore the sea needs a break where biodiversity can be restored and natural life can be restored. The most important task is to remove what is probably 10%. of our garden, to untouched sea. It gives the oceans a breathing space and lets plants and wildlife gather forces. Studies show that areas of wild and untouched nature cause fish stocks to grow noticeably, and this means that in the long term we can fish much more fish without pushing nature into imbalance. For Conservatives, therefore, it will not be about the 10%, but about where the 10%. must be found. For there is a land as well as a water battle for the square. We have extremely pressured fishing, which is one of our important food industries and which we need more than ever, both in the short and in the long term. And we also have a huge need for more renewable energy................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... the development of others at sea as shipping and defence, just to mention a few other extremely relevant other sectors. We are therefore talking a lot about coexistence in order to achieve a goal, and I certainly believe in that too. I also believe that it will be a little more expensive, but nature calls for action, and that is actually now. Conservatives wholeheartedly support the proposal and hope that in the negotiations we can jointly come to the sea to help. In this respect, it will be absolutely crucial which areas are designated, and that is why we believe that the resolution is a fine indication, but also that when the negotiations are going on, that is where we have to put energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180648	Thank you. There are no brief comments, thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, sir. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180707	Thank you. And then we can always discuss whether it is the motion for a resolution that has overtaken the negotiations or whether it is the negotiations that have overtaken the resolution, but that is the way it is. At least the most important thing is that we have got started. I would also like to thank you very much for the consideration given to the motion for a resolution, and indeed also for the speech made by the Minister, which I think was very accommodating. It has also been said to the other rapporteurs, who are of course contributing to the fact that this is not the case, and that is not how I see it today; it is not going to be a competition for who will lay out the most untouched sea. That's not where we are at all. After all, it is such a debate about what it is we are going to do now, when the sea suddenly becomes the new construction site, if you may put it that way. We heard about raw materials before, and we also have it in relation to developing our green energy, and we have it about fishing, which is also incredibly important, and then in relation to talking about the climate of meat and the way we have to raise protein. How do we distribute it? There you just have to be careful that you don't always stand there and say, "How do we get rich?" Because the challenge is that I think we all want to, but we want to finance our welfare society. But what is also important is that no one comes after and says: What happened on your watch when we started using the sea more than you've been used to? That is why we are very much looking forward to the debates that are coming, and with the debate that we had in the Chamber today, I might also think that I myself have tried to be the support party to a government once, of course, that we should see in the committee's work whether we could not write something sensible with each other and see if we could not make a majority. For then we are sure that some of what several rapporteurs have mentioned today may also be included in a final agreement when you are sitting in the ministry. So I would at least like to suggest that, in other words, we should try across parties in relation to the positive things that we agree on after all to make a small text on it, and then make it contribute to the good progress that will be made with the Minister. So thank you very much to all the rapporteurs and also to the Minister for taking such a nice view of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180916	Thank you for that and there is a short labelling from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180921	Thank you. In other words, if you are a replacement, you should also be allowed to be so completely, so I would like to be allowed to be so today. And thank you for giving us the opportunity, for example. to make a story. That makes sense. I also suggested it earlier myself, and I just have to say that my intelligence tells me that the SF is also on at least 10%. protection. That is why it makes very good sense to discuss it further in a committee. So thank you for your statement that this is also an opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426180954	I would like to sign for that, and as the proposer I shall also try to see if I can have a sensible text that several people can see themselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181003	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181022	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181044	Thank you. We shall deal with motion for a resolution B 97 on better medical coverage. And the proposal says: "The proposal instructs the government in the spring of 2022 to draw up a strategy for better medical coverage in Denmark, which can ensure at least 5,000 general practitioners in 2035 as well as better medical coverage, which can serve as a basis for discussions between Parliament's parties in the context of the negotiations on a health reform. We are engaged in the negotiations on the reform of health. We have had discussions with all the parties in the Danish Parliament in the Ministry of Health, and we have presented our proposals in the government for a health reform, where precisely when it comes to medical coverage, we have a wide range of new initiatives that must solve this problem once and for all. It acts among other things. On the subject of compulsory practice, it is a question of strengthening the distribution of training doctors, it is a question of targeted action in areas where there is a shortage of doctors. For the purpose is • and it is also a defined goal in our proposal for health reform, which we are currently negotiating • that all citizens should have access to a permanent doctor close to their place of residence. And we need more doctors for general practice in medical-preservation areas. If you then go back a few years and look at how it has gone with the dimensioning, i.e. how many doctors are actually trained in what is called general medicine, then it is so that before 2018 the figure was 259 per year, i.e. 259 of those who became specialists, could get the education in general medicine that you need to be given to become a practicing doctor. In 2019, that figure went up to 294, and from 2020 to 2020 we have increased it and are now 350 a year; that is, an increase from those 259 who were in force to 294 and now to 350. In other words, since this government has been responsible, we have been working on getting more doctors trained. And, as I said, we are not going to stop with all the other elements I mentioned here, of course, and I look forward to the discussions with Parliament's parties on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181313	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181322	Thank you. I therefore agree with the Minister that something has been done under this government. Some initiatives were also taken under the previous government. I just want to hear from the Minister whether, so that we have a proper basis on which to negotiate, we can agree on a common objective, namely that there should be 5 000 practitioners in this country in the early or mid- 2030s.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181346	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181347	In fact, I believe that this is the level to which we must go, and that is the objective that we are working towards. When we see the dimensioning plans, it is also a realistic objective to achieve for us. So I think it's at that level. Exactly when and how we reach it is one of the things we need to analyze. But that's the level we need to get to. It should be remembered that we are actually educating more doctors. In other words, there are far more people who actually get the training, and that is also fine, because there are some who get the training also in general medicine and who choose to have jobs elsewhere for the benefit of society. It can be in private companies and elsewhere. That's fine, too. But we really do need to eliminate the problem that we have had for far too long now too many places in Denmark, namely that you cannot have a practitioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181433	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181435	I almost take this as an expression of the fact that we can almost agree on that here, and we then enter into a health agreement, that is to say that it is an independent objective that we have 5,000 practitioners in one year or another in the early or mid- 2030s. I should also like to ask something else, because this resolution also contains some proposals to use financial incentives to increase medical coverage in areas which are particularly threatened by lack of doctors. Is this something that the Minister can see himself in the context of the negotiations on a health agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181511	Yeah, I can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181513	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181516	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. I was delighted at the introduction to the Minister's speech, where the Minister pointed out that once and for all this problem of medical shortages had to be resolved, and that is a big word, and I also recognise that former Parliament and previous governments have not been ambitious enough to ensure that they have sufficient training for practitioners. But now it is the Minister who is Minister and we here who are Parliament, and what is the reason why we do not turn up the capacity so that we reach not 350 training places annually, but 400, so that we are sure to reach the 5,000 at the beginning of the 2030s, so that everyone can have a practicing doctor, as they know and who knows his patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181602	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181603	Let us try to discuss this in our debates. So, as I said, this government has significantly increased both in percentage terms and in real terms. Are we at the right level now? Let's discuss it. What we must clearly be aware of, and I would also appeal to the Danish Parliament, is that if we turn up something that may even be popular places and where we would like to go as specialist students, that is to say when we have to move on from medical education and perhaps have an education in general medicine, we should be careful not to cannibalise from other specialities, because right now we are talking about the need for practitioners. We also need psychiatrists, and we need radiologists. There are a great many educations we need in our healthcare system, and it is only essential that we do not create new problems in our zeal to solve a problem in psychiatric or cancer treatment. So that is what we need to have the full overview of.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181700	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181702	Thank you. It is, of course, complex in terms of getting the dimension right in all sorts of specialities, which is why I am glad that the specialty planning that has been put in place was reduced to only two years instead of the five years that have otherwise been carried out, because it gives us the opportunity to navigate a little more correctly. Because it is true, as the Minister says, that we also need psychiatrists and all sorts of other professional groups. So I look forward to the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181732	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181733	I really do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181736	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. Then we are in the middle of the rapporteurs and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Kasper Roug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426181752	Thank you. Unfortunately, the usual rapporteur in this area is temporarily prevented, so I have promised to read out his rapporteur's speech, starting with the fact that, in relation to B 97 on medical coverage, there is no doubt that the lack of access to a general practitioner constitutes a serious geographical inequality in health. That is why it is also the clear aim of the Social Democratic Party that all citizens should have access to a general practitioner and that we should have more doctors in the areas that are currently under medical protection. Specifically, in the motion for a resolution, the government is required to provide at least 5 000 medical practitioners in 2035 and better medical coverage. If we look at the first, the Danish Health Authority's forecasts show that we are currently on our way to 6,500 medical specialists in general medicine in 2035. This is an increase of over 50%. in relation to the number in 2018. So we are already well past the 5,000 mentioned in the proposal, and then even the 100 additional main training courses agreed between the government and the regions in 2020 have not even been taken into account. Both education and dimensioning are good and important, and the Social Democrats also believe that it is necessary to say that we cannot confine ourselves to operating on a time horizon of 2035, as proposed here in the proposal. Because the problems are out there and now, 600,000 Danes live in a medical sheltered area, which is why we also need proposals that provide solutions in the short term. After all, with the reform of health, the government has presented a number of good and concrete proposals. This applies first and foremost to our proposals on compulsory practice, in which we reorganise part of the primary education in general medicine. More time takes place in general practice and less time in the hospital, i.e. some 290 additional training doctors in general practice, which can help reduce the medical deficiency. The government also intends to work in cooperation with the regions to create ten new licensing clinics with space for approx. 10 to 30 additional doctors in the medical-preserved areas, making it less bureaucratic to establish regional clinics in the medical-preserved areas. In areas with particularly great challenges, it may also be possible to provide a financial contribution to the general practitioners, who employ practical staff, for example, in order to receive significantly more patients. I and we in the Social Democrats also note that the comments made by the Left on the motion for a resolution have listed a number of proposals, and several of them are quite successful in what the government has put forward. We cannot support B 97 as it stands here. Instead, I would urge you to bring your good proposals to the health reform negotiating table. It is in this forum that we should resolve the medical shortage, so that we have a solid plan that addresses both the short term and the longer term challenges we face in relation to the medical shortage.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426182047	Thank you for that and there are no brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426182056	Thank you. Thank you for making the proposal. This is not the first time we have discussed medical coverage here in Parliament, so I would just like to stress once again that SF also wants to strengthen medical coverage in Denmark, not least in areas that actually have a medical coverage challenge. SF has noted that the number of main training courses in general medicine has increased several times in recent years, and that in the main scenario of the Danish Health Authority's medical forecast for 2018-2040 compared to the availability of doctors and specialists, an increase of 51 per cent is expected. in the number of specialists in general medicine in the period 2018-2040. I've read that. In the shorter term, the number of specialists in general medicine is expected to increase by almost 8%. in the period from 2018 to 2025. This also means that approx. 6,500 medical specialists in general medicine in 2035. However, it is noted that the forecast has been prepared before the promise of the dimensioning of the main training courses in general medicine as a result of the agreement on the economy of the regions in 2020. Is that enough? I don't know, but I know it's an area we have to follow incredibly closely. I am very happy that the new agreement on specialist services, which entered into force on 1 April 2022, aims to ensure better medical coverage. Not least, we have noted that in October 2021 and March 2022 the government has submitted proposals for medical coverage initiatives and, moreover, negotiations have also been called for. In SF we will work for the spread of several licensing clinics. It is far from certain that new young doctors find it awesome to work under the same conditions as have been the case in the past for general practitioners at a time when it can be difficult to sell a practice. There, then, you may feel a little tied up, not least in the outlying areas. I therefore believe that we must also look at new forms of ownership and new ways of doing things, which both preserve the family doctor as we know it, but which, at the same time, can continue to be attractive to new young doctors. After all, we believe that medical coverage should be addressed in the negotiations on a health reform where the close and coherent health care is an important issue, which should include not only doctors but also other professional groups and sectors across the board. So we will also look forward to the further negotiations on a health reform, where we believe that the problem, as the Left points out here, is a real problem which also needs to be addressed. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426182345	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur from the Radical Left, Mr President. Stinus Lindgreen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426182355	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you to the Left for once again raising the problem of medical shortages in this Chamber. This is not the first time we have the debate, and it is, of course, a problem that we all agree must be resolved, because of course we need medical coverage throughout the country. It is clear that it is untenable that there are such geographical differences in our small country. We need to ensure medical coverage by looking at a number of different approaches, and I am also pleased to note that the Left has a number of ideas in this proposal. We must look broadly at solutions in both the short and the long term. Of course, we have to look at the number of training places in the individual specialties, but that is by its very nature something where the effect is a number of years ahead of time. In the short term, of course, we can look at what incentives we can use to attract doctors to the areas that are lacking. Can we make it more attractive to settle in the areas at risk of medical coverage, for example? by looking at economics or practicalities? That is one of the issues we need to discuss in the negotiations. In the Radical Left we welcome the debate, but of course we will not be voting in favour of the motion by the Left in this Chamber. Instead, I would like to look forward to discussing the problem and all the different possible solutions in the ongoing negotiations on a health agreement, which we are currently discussing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426182518	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426182522	It was just to thank the radical rapporteur. There was just one thing I was just referring to, and it was that the rapporteur said that we should use economic incentives, and it is actually clear from the proposal in a number of places that economic incentives can be used. For example: One might ask whether there are any doctors who can take patients in addition to the 1.600 norm and whether they can get a financial incentive to do so. Could a recruitment supplement be applied to younger doctors who settle in medically-preserved areas of the country? Could this be something the radical rapporteur would agree with some of us on in such negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426182610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426182612	Yes, as I said, and I meant quite sincerely, I think the Left has a number of good ideas on that. Much of this is something we can easily see ourselves in, and I think we should discuss it at the negotiating table. But it is certainly not something that is foreign to us in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426182624	There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Stinus Lindgreen. Then it is the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, sir. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426182637	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Left for presenting this motion for a resolution. As previous rapporteurs have said, this is a major problem that we are currently dealing with. And, of course, negotiations are currently under way on the proposal for a health reform presented by the government. There is no secret that we in the Enhedslisten do not believe that what has been presented is ambitious enough. However, it also allows us to discuss the whole question of medical coverage. I also think it is essential, as I think previous rapporteurs have also said, to say that this is not just about specialists in general medicine. It is basically a question of seeing how we can ensure that there are sufficient specialists in the various disciplines at all. When we come to discuss it, I also think it is essential both to look at the fact that we are adequately trained with doctors, but also, of course, to see whether the working conditions that we offer them are good enough to make it an attractive job. We can see now, among other things. With the increased pressure in the near health care sector, there will also be greater pressure among specialists in general medicine because of the volume of work and the complexity of the tasks they meet. So it is also an element that we need to look at in the context of those negotiations. In this context, I think it is also important to look at what kind of working conditions we are offering them. We can, for example. See, we hear that, among other things. also from Younger Doctors that there is an increasing desire that there is not necessarily an employer's responsibility when going out and acting as a general medicine. On the other hand, we must also ensure that it is easier and more flexible for the regions to establish regional clinics so that doctors can be employed as general medical practitioners in a regional clinic, but at the same time they must also be able to work in a hospital and be part of a professional community and participate in research tasks and the like. So I think there are a number of measures that we need to look at in relation to this. However, as I said, the negotiations on the proposal for a health reform have now finally started, and that is where we will bring our ideas to the negotiating table in the Enhedslisten. I think the Left will, too. That is why we shall not be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled here by the Left. Instead, we look forward to taking the negotiations on this in the negotiations currently taking place in the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426182922	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426182925	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. I always listen very intensely when Enhedslisten says something. It's more just to get some pointer on how hard Mr. Kim. Peder Hvelplund and Enhedslisten will stamp into this discussion in the negotiations that we must, at some point, be seriously engaged in on the issue of close health care and, in particular, on the issue of general practice. In other words, is this something that is high on the agenda Enhedslisten, in other words, to strengthen this area both in the long term, when it can be about the training of more doctors and such things, but also in the short term, where we can then have a slightly different view of what are the best instruments? But how high on the agenda is Mr. Peder Hvelplund?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426183003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426183004	That is quite high on our agenda. In other words, right now we also have our own proposal for a health reform, in which we also allocate considerable resources to this task, because for us it is absolutely crucial that if we are to solve the task of close health care and to ensure that it continues to be a public task, that is to say, a task that will be solved in the public health service with equal and free access, then it also requires investment. And it is clear that we are willing to do so. It is important both to find the money for those investments, but also to ensure that we have national quality standards and that funds are also taken out when it comes to resolving them locally. So this is an agenda that is really important for the Enhedslisten. And it is clear that we look forward to seeing in these negotiations how much we can succeed in moving the government and a political majority, so that we ensure that there is investment, so that in future we also have a well-funded and well-run public health service where we can invest in both treatment and pay and working conditions for staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426183111	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426183122	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Left for presenting this motion for a resolution. Medical shortages are indeed a major problem which we must resolve as soon as possible. When we talk about inequality in health, lack of practitioners is one of the biggest problems. This impairs medical work, and patients are at risk of diseases being overlooked, but also for many of them to be referred to hospitalizations, in other words hospitalizations, which could have been avoided if patients had had a permanent doctor. That is why we Conservatives have also put forward proposals to make a significant effort to train some more specialists in general medicine. Exactly what we have proposed is to provide adequate training for doctors so that we can reach the 5 000 doctors that will be needed in the future. After all, the need arises because we have a demographic challenge. We know that the number of 80+-year-olds will double in the years to come. There are more chronic illnesses, and an increasing number of patients are affected by more chronic diseases, i.e. multi-diseases. There, too, we would like more tasks to be done in general practice rather than in hospitals. We know what it means to have a doctor of our own. It doesn't mean so much if it's the case that you're healthy, but if you get something wrong gets sick, then it's extremely important that the patient knows your doctor and that the doctor knows your patient. If you suffer from pain in your life, suffer from mental illness, become chronically ill or even suffer from several chronic diseases at the same time, it is invaluable that you have a doctor who you know and who you feel secure about. Similarly, the doctor has much easier to diagnose when it is a well-known patient who either calls the doctor or comes in through the door than it is an unknown patient whom the doctor has never met before. General practice is thus unique with high patient satisfaction, high quality and high patient safety. As I have said, I have also put forward a proposal here in the Parliamentary Assembly to train some more practitioners, unfortunately without being responsive to the government. But we know that a strong primary sector, among other things. lower mortality in relation to a number of diseases, higher life expectancy, less inequality and better quality of life, more relevant use of hospitals, i.e. fewer admissions, and lower growth in health expenditure. Therefore, there is also a great responsibility on the government and on the Danish Parliament to ensure that all Danes have a family doctor and not least the opportunity to choose their own doctor. That means that we need to get up to these 5,000 general practitioners, also called family doctors. The Left's proposal is certainly very good and a serious suggestion to ensure family medical coverage. It also describes various proposals to distribute doctors, including in those areas where the problems are greatest. But I am a little disappointed that the ambition is not greater. In the past, we have put forward a well-worked proposal which indicates how to train enough specialists in general medicine so that we can achieve the goal of 5 000 general practitioners as early as 2032, i.e. in 10 years' time. The left stretches further so that it takes 13 years, and I find that somewhat unambitious. We look forward, of course, to the committee procedure, where we can also shed some light on what the proposal specifically comes up with when summing up the individual elements of the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426183510	Thank you, sir. Per Larsen. There are no brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426183522	Thank you, President. We have an obvious challenge to secure enough general practitioners across the country in some places more than others. However, it is an absolutely central part of our health system that we all have a doctor who we can go to in our vicinity. And we need to look at how we can motivate more doctors to find it attractive to be in the outskirts. Practice has been that one or more doctors jointly own a clinic and are either themselves or are in an established medical center, and when I talk to practitioners in my area, I can see that they actually find it difficult to find younger doctors who want to buy a practice. Thus, it is difficult to dispose of existing clinics or extend the clinics with several doctors. What I hear is that many younger doctors today do not want to be co-owners; they want to be employees. They do not want the trouble of being independent employers, and that is why we may have to look at whether the construction of private practice is the way it should be. In the motion for a resolution from the Left, there are both a number of proposals that will address some of the challenges here and now, and long-term actions, and there may be many good things to address there. Now, as several rapporteurs have said, we are also in the middle of a process of new health reform, in which practitioners naturally have a key role and where it would therefore be appropriate to discuss all good proposals. So I would therefore like, on the basis of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left, to be able to adopt a joint report that we must ensure the solution of the challenge of the negotiations that are coming. I think that we should all be able to agree on that somewhere across the parties. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426183652	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then there are no more rapporteurs in the Chamber, apart from the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, sir. Martin Geertsen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426183709	Thank you. Thank you for the fallen and indeed generally positive comments on the resolution. We believe that we need to strengthen general practice in order to strengthen the free choice of doctor and, in this context, also to ensure better medical coverage in the areas of medical coverage at risk. It is like the whole set aside for this motion for a resolution. We believe that all Danes should have access to a general practitioner close to their place of residence. The Danes must be given the opportunity to choose a doctor freely. Unfortunately, this is far from being the case today, when there is a great shortage of practitioners in some parts of the country, and that is not only in rural municipalities, but also in and around the larger cities, and this unfortunately means that patients' free choice of doctor has actually been put out of effect in many parts of the country, as a high proportion of the country's practitioners have closed down the access of new patients. For example, the number of patients who have to go to practitioners in another municipality has increased over the past decade. And that means that many Danes find it difficult to find a doctor close to home if they, for example, find a doctor close to home. move or if they wish to change medical practice for other reasons. The Left wants to strengthen patients' freedom of choice. This requires more practitioners closer to the citizens. This requires that we safeguard and develop the central role of general practitioners in the Danish health care system. The Left, together with other good forces, took a number of initiatives when we ourselves were in government, but in our view we must go further. More work is needed, and we think it is important that we stand guard over the right of the Danes to choose a medical practitioner that suits them and is close to where they live. Both the Danes and our health services are best served by this. For many Danes, the general practitioner is the first to meet when you or your relatives experience health problems or suffer from illness, and a lot can be done with a single or a visit to your own doctor. However, the general practitioner also acts as the very entrance to the rest of the health care system in the form of references to hospital treatment or treatment by a private specialist. And as many Danes live longer and longer, in the late years of life we are increasingly in need of the general practitioner. At the same time, unfortunately, the number of Danes with chronic disorders also increases. In these years there will be a gradual change in the Danish health service, where more tasks in the form of consultations, studies and treatments will have to be solved in what, in the absence of a better term, we call the nearest health care, rather than in the hospital itself. Here too, the general practitioner will play a decisive role. In other words, general practice is a central focus of the Danish healthcare system and in relation to the Danes' equal and free access to healthcare. Unfortunately, as I said, we have the challenge of having many practitioners shut down the access of new patients. Although developments have been in the right direction in recent years, many general practitioners have continued to shut down the access of new patients, and when access to the general practitioner is constantly under pressure, the free choice of doctor for the individual Dane also comes under pressure. This is therefore a problem in our view, because free choice is fundamental to the choice of the doctor who is best suited to the individual and thus gives greater satisfaction. Freedom of choice is also essential in order to ensure the continued development of services in general practice. The Socialist Government has proposed to introduce a duty of service so that newly trained doctors will be forced into the sparsely populated areas of the country so that there will be more doctors there. So we don't believe that's the answer. You hardly get better and more motivated doctors through coercion. For this reason, we believe that financial incentives are being used to attract more doctors into the areas at risk of medical coverage. Specifically, we propose, for example, that an additional allowance be given to doctors who take extra patients in addition to the standard standard of 1 600. In addition, we also believe that there is a need to lift the physical framework in the individual medical practices. When the physical framework is not sufficient, the working environment and recruitment opportunities suffer, and the better physical framework also supports the development where there must be room for more tasks outside hospitals, which is why we propose a state pool from which the regions and municipalities can seek funds for the modernisation of medical homes. It is also important, in order to ensure better medical coverage, that we increase the availability of practitioners. That is why we propose, as others have said, and thank you for that, that by 2035 at the latest. Per Larsen, must be 5,000 practitioners in Denmark. And it is necessary, as I said earlier, when we are about to lift the close health care system, that there should be more doctors so that we can treat more people outside hospitals and thus also strengthen the freedom of choice. In order to be able to achieve this, we need to increase the number of training places in the general medical specialist's training to be adapted and adjusted upwards. It is important for us that these places have a geographical distribution, as many studies show that you are staying in the areas in which you are being trained. It is therefore also crucial that doctors are trained in general medicine throughout the country and that they are motivated to stay there. Following on from this, we also believe that the regions should be given the opportunity and, for that matter, encouraged to allocate annual financial resources to recruitment allowances to doctors in primary training courses in medically threatened areas of the country. We think that more time should be devoted to education in general practice, and we have proposed that an extra six months should be spent in practice, and this includes a more or less hidden labour reserve. Finally, we also believe that it is necessary for the regions to be able to make agreements with, for example, the regions. medical practitioners to ensure that they are able to finance additional staff for the clinic against the postponement of the pension. A large part of this speech and the discussion here has, of course, been about general practice, but I think it is also important that we do something about specialist coverage in general. The private specialists are an essential part of the overall health care system and, as close health care is developed in the years to come, towards more treatments and studies outside hospitals, yes, the Left sees great prospects in taking advantage of the central position of practitioners in the overall health care system. For many Danes, the practitioners can be a close, specialized health service and the practitioners can be present more decentralisedly than the hospitals are. At the same time, private practitioners are already an important part of access to rapid investigation and treatment, and in the future they can play an even greater role in ensuring short waiting times for treatment in the Danish health service, thereby supporting the investigation and treatment guarantees in a number of areas. One of the challenges is that the number of private practitioners is geographically very unevenly distributed, with a very strong concentration around the metropolitan area and a greater degree of presence in the largest cities. In future, if the specialist system is to be a genuinely close health service and is to be used more actively in reducing waiting times, it must be developed in our view. At the same time, the specialist system for many patients may seem incalculable. In our view, information and access to specialists should be made more user-friendly for patients. That is why we also propose that we take along and have taken part in the discussions with the government and that financial resources be set aside to establish specialist practice in those parts of the country where they are not widely present today and where there is a long way to the hospital. In addition, attention should also be paid to the fact that current medical practitioners can be available in a more dispersed geography, for example. through the establishment of satellite practices. Thank you again for the comments that have been made. I look forward to the further work on our motion for a resolution in the work of the committee and the debates which have indeed indeed begun, also on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426184547	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426184549	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Martin Geertsen for the speech. After all, there were a great many elements with which I fully agree. Now the proposal that the Left raises here was primarily about specialists and specialists in general medicine, but I just need to know if Mr. Martin Geertsen does not also recognise that there are other professional groups that we are so lacking in health care today if we are to have it linked. I'm thinking of nurses, sosus, radiographs, physiotherapists and ergotherapists. And then I could hear that Mr. Martin Geertsen mentioned that a financial reward could be given to the specialists so that we could attract more. I'm just gonna ask you about Mr. Kim. Martin Geertsen is also of the opinion that this could also be done for the other professional groups, and whether the Left will help to ensure that we can give a low and equal pay boost to the professional groups that we so much lack in health care in order to have a coherent health service.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426184644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426184647	No, what we have proposed in concrete terms is that if you want to have private practitioners in those parts of the country where you are somewhat more obsessed than is the case in the metropolitan area, you have to do something about it. As I understand it, such an outer number in round numbers costs a 4-5 million. kr. to establish. I do not think that the attempt to force private practitioners out of the metropolitan area has any land. But if you want to spread private practitioners in other parts of the country, then I think it is necessary that a bag of money be set aside which is tied in the back to set up the outer numbers in those parts of the country where it is a little more scattered fencing with specialist practice than is the case today. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426184739	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426184741	I fully agree that the idea of duty previously put forward by the government has no place on land. But it was more, since now the Left is also a party that is usually in favour of supply and demand. It can be said that demand is now quite high after other staff in the health service as well. Then it would not be a good idea to use the same logic as Mr. Martin Geertsen uses to attract doctors to outlying areas, to say that when we have such a need for healthcare professionals in general, we could also help to put in a pool of money to ensure that we could get paid?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426184814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426184815	No, like I said to sir. Peder Hvelplund before, this is about establishing specialist practice in thinner populated areas of the country and not, in other words, about pay. It's about setting up outside numbers in those parts of the country where it's pinching, and that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426184832	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426184847	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426184918	Thank you very much. When I first saw this suggestion, I thought, 'We've had it before.' We almost have, because we had the debate well about a year ago, but the proposal from the Conservative People's Party has actually been revised, and it is about yes, I can quote from that: the Danish Parliament is instructing the government to counteract developments which are currently moving towards the fact that more and more Danes are registered with medical clinics with short-term temporary workers. The government is also required to reduce the spread of so-called straw-man clinics, where specialists in general medicine buy out outside numbers, leaving the clinic and medical work to private firms, so that the patient does not meet the same doctor when he or she becomes ill. As part of this, the government is required to submit a bill to amend the provisions of the Health Act so as to eliminate the ability of general practitioners to own more than one external number. So this is a revised re-presentation, I think we may call it. I would say from the outset that the government agrees with the proposers that doctors who own external numbers should be employed in the operation of their clinics. Let me try to make some history about this, because it is a scheme that has been running since 2013, which has thus been possible for practitioners to own up to six of what is called outer numbers. It was the same legal amendment that made regional and tender clinics possible. So this is something that has been there for almost 10 years now. The aim at that time was clearly to improve the ability of the regions to offer access to a universal medical service to all citizens in an efficient and high quality manner. The rule means that the five regions can sell vacant external numbers to doctors, who therefore already own another external number. It can, for example, be done. be a doctor who has made it work with the operation of a general practice clinic and has the opportunity to create an additional one. It may be in cooperation with permanent doctors or practice staff or in cooperation with a company that handles administrative matters and thus allows the doctor to see patients associated with two different clinics. So it can be said that the possibility for doctors to own more outside numbers gives the regions a few more cards in hand to provide medical coverage, and that makes the practice more flexible for doctors. Why is that relevant? This is of course relevant in those areas where we can see today that there is less interest in settling down as a doctor and where the regions may therefore have more difficulty in selling the outer numbers. So the context is the same as we have today, namely medical coverage challenges. I'll come back to that a little later. So, what's a partnership clinic, and what's a sloppy clinic? A partnership clinic is a clinic where the general practitioner has entered into an agreement with a private company that it is responsible for parts of the operation of the clinic, for example. the company takes care of the administrative and so that the doctor can focus on patient contact. We know from studies that there are a number of specialists in general medicine who would like to work in general practice, but they do not want to carry out all the tasks that are at hand in operating such a general practice, i.e. that of being a self-employed person, and that can also include the recruitment of staff. It is the government's opinion that partnership clinics and other forms of organisation, for example. licensing clinics can contribute to medical coverage in areas where it is difficult to get a practitioner to settle down. So this is about how we can find solutions to the current problem we have. This is also true in relation to the proposal that the owner doctor should be required to hire all doctors and other clinic staff in the clinic himself. After all, we are talking a lot about returning to the core task of freeing up medical time so that doctors can spend as much of their time with patients as possible. Therefore, I did not think it appropriate to introduce a requirement that it should also be responsible for ensuring that the agreement is complied with in the operation of the clinics, after all, with the doctor who owns the external number, regardless of whether it was involved in the recruitment itself. So until this is called a sloppy clinic. What is known as "strawman clinics' is a collection of clinics where the owner doctor is not involved in the work of any of the clinics and is therefore neither involved in administration nor patient contact. I am not in favour of this, and that is what I said at the outset. We in the government support the underlying intention of this proposal, namely that owner doctors should have the main job of running their own clinics. That is also what we said or I said, and several parties were in agreement on the last time we discussed this proposal. After all, a report was written, and it is always good to pull out the old report and then look at it: if it happened, did something come out of it? And now I can quote from the report, which says: 'S, V and RV take note of the fact that the Ministry of Health will work for a solution under the auspices of the Region's Salaries and Tax Board, which ensures that the owner doctor must have the main job of running and taking responsibility for his own clinics. So, what's it gonna be? It can be seen that in the agreement which entered into force on 1 January, there are some significant changes in this particular area. For the agreement between the RLTN, the Regional Pay and Tax Boards of the Regions, and the PLO, the doctors, it appears that it is not possible under the agreement to own an outer number without having the main job of running and taking responsibility for their own clinics or clinics; that transparency should be ensured in relation to which doctors work in the clinic, and this includes that the doctors indicated in the medical list and the Practice Declaration are also the doctors that patients should be able to expect from a meeting of the clinic; that clinics cannot use changing replacements unless there is a temporary absence; and, finally, that a capacity available may not be answered for more than one year; and that temporary workers may then be used in that year before it is to be manned by a partner or a permanent doctor under the agreement. It is therefore changes that have taken place since the last time, so it can be said that something has come out of it since the last time, and that is also what we wrote in the report, namely that we would work to bring about those changes. And I think it has to be said that all the changes are intended precisely to prevent the owner doctors from buying outer numbers without any intention of being involved in the operation and patient contact at the clinics. It is now in the agreement, but it is also in the agreement that doctors have six months from the date of entry into force, i.e. 1 January, to adapt to these new rules, which means that they will have until July of this year to adapt to them. So you are, I guess, definitely doing it. And I think these are some important steps in that direction. So to sum up, we agree on the part of the government with the ambition behind the proposal here. Steps have been taken under the agreement on this very basis, and they have entered into force, and six months are needed to adapt. And in general, we have just had a good debate on medical coverage, which is also a major priority for this government. However, we have just had a major discussion on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426185745	Thank you. There is a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426185748	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. The reason we bring it up is, of course, that it has been documented by several laps. It was also written in the letter that it is extremely important for patients and for medical work, that you have a doctor who you know, and therefore it is inappropriate with changing doctors. One also has to say that if a doctor drives up to six outside numbers, then it does not guarantee the continuity that you have if you are sure that there is a single doctor who has his own capacity and who has his own patients. So if we were to give a concession on the part of the Minister, could we not say that with six outside numbers there is a real, real risk of continuity disappearing?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426185847	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426185848	Yes, but there are no parties, I think, from a health or party-political point of view it should be six clinics. It's to weigh up the pros and cons. There are clear advantages. The first plus is that we get some of the doctors who burn for patient contact but who do not burn for paperwork and the operation of a clinic to come out and be employed as practitioners. The second plus is that we even get them out to places where we find it incredibly difficult to get doctors today. And the third plus is that there will be a professional environment where there is professional sparring, if there are such clinics where there is some connection in that way. They're huge pluses. But then there are also some negatives, and then we try to take them into account and clarify them more. This has been done in the agreement. It's not always that you need to talk to the same doctor. Sometimes it can be rather simple where you just need a vaccination, or what I know; sometimes you would very much like a doctor who knows your history.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426185953	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426185956	Thank you. This is actually mostly because I would like to listen to the Minister, and I think that the Minister would agree that it is a problem that we are beginning to see growing with these straw-man clinics, also because we can see that there are groups, i.e. Nordic Medicare and everyone's House of Doctors, who are trying to enter the market. And the things the Minister points out about the possibility that collegiate communities are not necessarily employers' responsibilities can be solved, for example. regional clinics or licensing clinics proposed by the government itself in their own health initiatives. So I just want to know whether the Minister does not agree that this issue must be resolved and whether the government, if it turns out that the initiatives that have been taken now are not enough, is willing, for example, to do so. To do as in the motion for a resolution and say that then we go down to one outside number, and then there is the second possibility that you can have licence clinics or regional clinics instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190053	I can easily see these issues, and there are pluses about everything you do, but I think, as I said, there are also some minuses about this if we did it. It is quite true that we have proposed from the government that there should be better opportunities for several different solutions, including licensing clinics and also regional clinics, than there are today, at least in the time when we are in need of doctors in large parts of Denmark, and we just have to say as the Parliamentary Government, and as I know them, the parties too, that we cannot again face the people in a parliamentary election and say that there are still huge and massive problems with medical coverage areas that we cannot. That is to say, when something actually works and some people actually solve some of these challenges, we really need to be sure that it can be solved in other ways as safely and as well as what is actually a solution in some places, and that is where I think we should be careful that we do not do anything that would be unfortunate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190158	But we have those alternatives. In other words, both licensing clinics and regional clinics are tools we can use. I just think that when you see a development where there are foreign groups trying to buy into something that is a complete cornerstone of the Danish healthcare system, namely the possibility of being able to take advantage of a practicing doctor and that if it is something that needs to be capitalised and made into a business, it will be a development that can take years to turn back. That is why it is important that we put up some safeguards, and that is why my question is whether the government, if it turns out that this development is continuing, is willing to take further initiatives to slow down this development. Because it's a bomb under the health care system we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190242	Well, if this turns out to be a bomb under the health care system, of course we'll look at it. We are following the situation very closely with the parties, but I think that the place we are now is a place where there are too many white spots on the map, where it is not possible to get a doctor, and in relation to the initiatives that can help it, it is my view that we should try to go unideologically and solve those problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190315	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. That is why we are now moving on to the rapporteurs, and the first is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190325	Thank you. One of the tools that we in the Danish Parliament have put at our disposal is to allow the regions to have doctors own more outer numbers, thus enabling doctors to buy outer numbers and employ medical staff. And the staff then recruited may be doctors who do not want to be the owners of a general practice and do all the administrative work themselves. In this way we can get some more doctors into general practice where we have the greatest and most serious medical shortage • get them out to places where otherwise we would not have gotten doctors out. But it must also be said that, of course, it has never ever been the intention of a doctor who owns an outside number to act simply as a strawman, and that is precisely why, since Conservatives last tabled the proposal, this new agreement on general practice has been agreed, among other things. It is stated that it is not possible to own an outside number in relation to the agreement without having the main job of running and being responsible for its own clinic. So in this way, what can be said has already been taken, some effective steps towards sloppy clinics. We can't support this proposal; we can't support a proposal that rolls the development back from 2013 and that's where the medical shortage is too serious in many parts of Denmark. However, we look forward to discussing the challenges we face with the medical coverage in large parts of Denmark, in the health negotiations that we are just going through. And there we are accommodating to all good suggestions that can help ensure good medical coverage throughout Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190508	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190511	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Rasmus Horn Langhoff for the speech. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur cannot confirm that the challenges that may be faced in resolving the problem of some specialists in general medicine not wanting to have employer responsibility and wish to be part of a professional community could be solved through the use of, for example, the use of drugs. regional clinics or, for that matter, licensing clinics and, in this sense, it is not necessary for us to start inviting private groups into the market in order to solve this problem. In other words, can the rapporteur not just confirm that precisely this issue could be resolved through regional and alternative licensing clinics?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190552	All five regions of the country have been allowed to establish regional clinics, most recently the Region of Zealand here a few years ago. So they have it as a tool, just as they have a number of other tools; they also have this tool. And then it is up to the region to assess how to ensure the best possible medical coverage in one's area, depending on what is needed, depending on what opportunities there are, and depending on how they ensure doctors, even where it is hardest to attract doctors. The most important thing is that there are doctors for those citizens, for the patients we have out there. I therefore hope that we will give a certain degree of flexibility to the regions in order to do this as best we can. It is a difficult task that they face, because we have a medical shortage, especially the furthest away from the cities where doctors are trained, and that must therefore be resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190644	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190645	Now it is the case that there are still some restrictions on when the regions have the opportunity to set up regional clinics. One possibility was to free them, so it became easier to set up regional clinics. But then I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is of the opinion that barbecue clinics and private groups are part of the future solution. For then it is clear that we should not do anything about it, but if it is not to be, then we will have to deal with how we are going to be restricted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190716	Well, the best solution is that we get doctors in general medicine throughout the country, that is to say we train enough doctors, not only where there is already best medical coverage, but that we train, so that there is good medical coverage throughout Denmark. There we have a lot of work ahead of us that we're not just gonna do with a snap. In the meantime, then, we must ensure that we have the best possible medical coverage, with the means at our disposal, and there is therefore a need for some degree of freedom of method for the regions, so that they can resolve it in the way that is now possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190751	Then there is a question from Mr. Per Larsen of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190755	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. Of course, I recognise that there are parts of the country where we have a great challenge in terms of medical coverage. If we manage to get into cadence so that we have a better distribution and a higher number of doctors, does the rapporteur recognise that it would be appropriate to reduce the number of outside numbers so that we can have a better continuity in medical clinics?
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190825-2	Not necessarily. In other words, the best thing we can do is to ensure that there are doctors for all citizens, that there are not only doctors where doctors are trained, but that there are doctors throughout the country. That is one of the things we are debating. I do not seem to reveal too much by saying that this is one of the things we are debating now in a health reform and ensuring closeness and equality in health throughout Denmark, and that is one of the things that we can hopefully find together some good solutions for which we can secure an important part of our health services in the future. However, I do not have a particularly ideological view that it is absolutely a good idea to limit the number of outside numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190908	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190909	Since it is now well documented that the relationship between patient and doctor is as important as it is after all, would it not be appropriate to work hard to ensure that all patients, all citizens of Denmark, have a relationship with a doctor who they know over a long period of time so that there is simply a relationship? After all, it is about mentally ill people, people who have life crises and other things where it can be incredibly important that they have a doctor who they know. And we also know how much it means to chronically ill people that they do not always have to list their own history of illness with a doctor who may have only been employed in the clinic for a short time and whom they only meet a few times.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426190957	It is very easy to answer that question. 'Cause, yeah, it's for the best. That is what we are working towards. That is also why it was gratifying that in the rapporteur's own vast circle a medical training was started in Aalborg at the time. It is a huge gift for our public health, as well as being trained doctors in Køge, and just as there are now also trained nurses in Holbæk. It's important that we get this spread of education. That is the path we must take, and that is what must help to safeguard our health services in the future and ensure that we have the capacity that is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426191037	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. There are no more brief comments. And I would like to welcome Mr. Martin Geertsen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426191045	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Per Larsen for what is at least not entirely wrong to say, namely to re-establish a very, very important discussion of general practice and of general practice in general. After all, we had about the same proposal in the last session of Parliament, and the proposal here is also a little in line with the discussion we have just had on medical coverage in general. If you get up a bit in the helicopter it isn't because I say that everyone else has done it too; now I'm just doing it again then I think that when you start this type of debate, it might be very interesting to ask yourself the question: Why is it now that we have a relatively strong general practice in Denmark? In my view, there are at least two good reasons for this. Firstly, because we want what can be dealt with in the near health care system and in this case, in general practice, so that the individual patient can be provided and treated with the doctor in general practice, then that is what has to happen. Secondly, it is because general practice represents an invaluable entry into the rest of the health care system. It is our general practitioner who essentially refers us to health care if that is what is needed for the individual patient. So the main task for us as politicians, according to my best concepts, at least as I see it, is to ensure that, in the absence of a better word, we have an underlying organizational arrangement that can accommodate the Danes' desire to come to a doctor when it is necessary that you can get to a doctor without a long wait and that it can happen when you have time for it as a patient. And on this occasion I would like to say that I think it is very important that you have access to a doctor wherever you live in the country, which is why we have just proposed in the previous resolution to increase the number of private practitioners and provide them with financial incentives to distribute geographically. The vast majority of places in the country work in a traditional way, if I may say so, by having as a doctor a so-called external number and a fixed number of patients and running your own business and your own practice. It may also be that the doctor operates his practice in cooperation with others in a doctor's home according to approximately the same recipe. Back in 2013, in connection with the then S-led government's intervention in the conflict between Danske Regioner and PLO, the Left made a political agreement to use some additional handles to secure medical coverage in Denmark. Among other things: We introduced the idea that if an outside number or practice, if one wishes to, cannot be filled by a traditional PLO doctor, then the outer number must be put out to tender among other private suppliers and it will not succeed, then the region can take over and run the clinic itself. We then also agreed with the then government that it was a good idea to allow practitioners to own as many as six outer numbers, i.e. in principle six practices again to ensure that there are as many tools in the toolbox as possible to ensure medical coverage throughout the country. We in the Left are still one hundred and ten percent behind the main features of the agreements we made back in 2013 with the Social Democrats and for that matter the Radical Left and the SF. Well, in some cases you see as and as I understand it, especially in cases where a general practitioner owns several outer numbers that he engages one of the private suppliers on the market to stand for, for example, IT, staff, maintenance of buildings and other practical questions. And then I also understand the Conservative proposal that what is then the problem is the cases where the practitioner is the person who owns the external number... does not have a daily patient contact, but only acts as a strawman or sits at home or where he is now sitting at home. I have to be completely honest and say: well, I still haven't really seen an investigation or otherwise an indication of whether there is a problem, or it's just a scenario that is described here. And if there is a problem, then I still have the merit of seeing something really that illustrates how big the problem is in the real world. On the other hand, I can see and see that there is a great deal of discussion about what is supposedly going to be agreed so far may well be a problem, but it is not necessarily now. And in any case, no evidence has been provided. But that should not change the fact that we are of course sensitive to discussing the matter further, especially if it can be stated that there is a problem and that it can be seen more than it has been up to now. When we dealt with similar proposals here in the Folketing last year, a majority of us put forward a text of the report and, of course, we are still completely behind it. I also assume that the Ministry is constantly monitoring whether the intentions of that report are now being met. That is why we cannot vote in favour of this proposal either, as we are still fully behind the agreement we reached in 2013.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426191538	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen. No one prayed for short remarks, so we thank Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party for this time and welcome her.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426191552	Thank you. I would like to thank Conservatives for once again putting forward the proposal to combat street clinics in general practice. This is a good theme and I have to say that I share the President's view that the previous rapporteurs have examined this resolution very, very carefully. In the SF, we still agree that we must prevent sloppy clinics. However, we also note that since the last amendment to the General Practice Agreement, an agreement has entered into force on 1 January 2022. And I myself am very pleased and positive that the PLO has just taken the lead in taking responsibility for combating the problem as well. But we still have challenges with lack of medical coverage in large parts of the country. As mentioned under the previous item on today's agenda, SF will, for example, work on the dissemination of licensing clinics. It is far from certain that new young doctors find it awesome to work under the same conditions as in the past for general practitioners. However, medical coverage is also crucial for the work on the close and coherent health care system, and I think it is important that medical coverage should be seen in a wider context, also so that we ensure that we have a look at whether other professional groups can help to remedy the problem and help solve the tasks of the close and coherent health care system. The SF is therefore not voting in favour of this proposal either. I do not think this is going to surprise the authors of the proposals, because we did not do so last time either, but we expect the challenges to be addressed in the health negotiations currently under way. yesterday. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426191748	You're welcome. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Per Larsen from Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426191753	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur refers to licensing clinics and mentions young doctors, but we also see examples of doctors who have disposed of their practices and who would like to enter into a partnership with the region in relation to a licence clinic, because they may then be able to go down a bit in working hours because they want to have a little more free time. And that is also a very good model in those areas, because unlike other forms of organisation, it can provide that continuity that you would like, for example. Knows that your own doctor is in the clinic 3 days a week or something. So it is of course far preferable to some other constructions where there may be some traffic in and out of doctors who are there for quite a short time in the clinics.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426191846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426191847	Well, we are in complete agreement with that. I understand if you are a young doctor or, for that matter, a senior doctor and you are about to establish yourself with an outside number and business in order, like being able to work as a general practitioner, that there are many who give up even before they even get started. We live in a mobile society where we also want to be able to move, and if the family suddenly has to move, because a spouse has got a job elsewhere in the country, or what do I know, then it must be easy to move again, and so it is not in the current system. The time has just passed from Dr. Hansen living down on the main street, and that, by the way, he always has. I think we need to get used to the fact that there can be more flexibility and also the possibility that we can just move and move somewhere else, if that is the case, without having to commit ourselves at very, very high costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426191945	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. And welcome to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426191956	Thank you very much, President. The proposal we are discussing today is essentially a re-submission of the Conservative People's Party's proposal that we discussed in the last session. The fact that doctors can own more outside numbers does not appear to us in the Radical Left to be a problem in itself, just as we do not find it problematic that doctors can enter into new collaborations or buy private suppliers to handle parts of the operation. There are examples that it can just remedy medical shortages in parts of the country. However, a few things have happened since we last had the debate in this Chamber. We can see in the figures that the number of patients associated with a clinic without an owner's doctor has increased dramatically in recent years, and this may indicate that there is a problem with straw-man clinics where the owner doctor is only a name on a piece of paper, but does not ensure the professionalism and continuity that is the purpose of the legislation. At the same time, however, last year, a majority instructed the Minister to work for a solution under the auspices of the Regional Pay and Tax Boards to ensure that a doctor is not merely the owner of the paper, because that is precisely the intention of the legislation. To this end, several elements have been agreed in the agreement which entered into force on 1 January of this year and which doctors still have a few months to live up to. It emphasizes that one cannot own an outside number without having as a main occupation to run and take responsibility for one's clinic. It must be ensured that patients can actually expect to meet the doctors on the medical list. Shifting temporary workers should be used only for temporary absences and not as the planned fixed staffing, and a maximum available capacity may be without a permanent doctor for one year. So here are a number of measures in the new agreement, which are intended precisely to put an end to these real straw-man clinics. We still have the benefit of seeing the full effect of this, and whether there are companies that consciously evade the purpose of, for example, replacing the owner doctor at short intervals. However, I have the view that, before deciding on a solution, I should first like to make it clear that there is indeed a problem, then make it clear that the proposed solution actually solves the problem and, finally, make sure that the proposal does not create more problems than it solves. That is why we want the government to follow closely the developments with the new measures contained in the agreement so that we can get a true picture of the development and extent of the problem, thereby also ensuring that there is an enlightened basis for assessing whether further action is needed. And that will be our objective in committee work. In the Radical Left, therefore, we will not be voting in favour of the proposal this time either, because we will not remove a possible tool without it being quite clear that it is necessary. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426192251	You're welcome, sir. Stinus Lindgreen. There are no brief comments, so we are moving on to Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten • De Red-Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426192304	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for raising this debate. I think that this is an extremely important debate on what our health services should look like in the years to come. There is no doubt that there is a need to look at how we organize the close health care system, also what working conditions we give to the new junior doctors who come and who may have an interest in settling down as specialists in general medicine. There we have to look at the structure there, because in relation to the structure we have seen over the past many years, when it has been all about the private practitioner, that is to say the family doctor, I think we have to recognise that this will be another picture we will see in the years to come. That is also why it is so important to focus on the possibility of establishing regional clinics, in principle also licensing clinics, which the government itself has put forward in their proposals for a health reform, precisely to ensure that there will also be the possibility of being able to exercise the medical profession without necessarily having to have an employer's responsibility or having to deal with a lot of administrative matters, but also to have the opportunity to participate in a collegiate community and have the opportunity to do research. I think we have the tools to do that, in other words through licensing clinics and regional clinics. The development that we have been able to see, and which I think may be worrying, is of course about the reports we receive, and they show that two groups in particular, i.e. Nordic Medicare and everyone's House of Physicians, are trying to establish themselves as distinct health chains, in other words, a little like what we have also seen in the dental field, where we can see that groups, often based abroad, are trying to enter and establish themselves in the close health care sector in Denmark. It would be a completely disastrous development if we saw that it would be an area that could be used for speculation in business. Because there is no doubt that the companies that enter come with the aim that they want to enter and make money on it, and they will be able to exploit economies of scale in relation to it. That is why, in the Enhedslisten, we agree with the proposal from the Conservatives that this is a problem that we need to take seriously. I have also listened to the fact that, in the light of the latest report, the government has also taken some initiatives to limit it. However, I do not think it should stop us from saying that we need to put up some safeguards against this development in order to prevent us from seeing a development in health care where large groups come in and start operating general practice. So now we have to try to see how it develops in committee work. It is possible that we can land it in a joint report where we can ensure that further safeguards are put in place in relation to it, but otherwise we are positive about the proposal from the Conservatives. Well, I can be a little unsure whether it is the right model to say that you have to limit it to one external number. It might well be that, in relation to some generational transfer or other, it could be practical for you to have more than one external number, but in relation to the threat we may face, I agree that it could be an opportunity to do so. So we are certainly willing to take a positive view of this, including in committee, and then we will have to see whether otherwise we can find additional safeguards together to ensure that we can prevent the worrying developments which could at least be a sign of happening in the health service now, just as we have seen in the dental sector. So thank you to the Conservatives for raising the debate. A positive statement must be made here on the Enhedslisten side at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426192703	There is a brief comment from Mr. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426192706	I would like to express my support for the rapporteur's speech on this issue. One of the reasons for raising it is also that you see in the regions that when some of the clinics run by the regions are to be put up for tender, there must of course be some bids from time to time, and when you go through the list, you can see that there are some who actually offer several of the outside numbers that do so in cooperation with some of the group-like designs that the rapporteur also mentions. So this is clearly a real issue, even if questions are raised as to whether it is really real. That makes it quite clear. But in any case, thank you for the rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426192752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426192753	Well, thank you. I would just like to say that, in relation to regional clinics, it is precisely one of the challenges that the regions are forced to send it out again. There we could consider at least that is what the Enhedslisten has proposed, that we extend the possibility for the regions to be able to establish regional clinics and also have greater freedom to continue running regional clinics, precisely to ensure that it becomes permanent staff who are there and that it becomes staff who can be part of both a professional community and have the opportunity to participate in research. So we would like the framework for the regions to be extended to be able to establish regional clinics. But let us look at the various solutions in the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426192836	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no more comments, and then we'll deal with Mr. Knox. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426192846	Thank you. Family doctor: Is this a dream? Maybe. But there are obvious qualities in the close doctor, the doctor who has an overview of me and my family as patients, and that is what needs to be in focus. It is certainly not ideal with very changing temp coverage in the medical clinics. Whether it really solves the problem of abolishing the possibility of being able to own more outside numbers, I do not know. But in the Danish People's Party we would very much like to discuss how to ensure better and more continuous medical coverage for all of us, focusing on, the desire, the dream of the family doctor. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426192930	Thank you, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl for a commendable short and clear speech. We have now reached the rapporteur for the proposers, as I do not see anyone from the New Civil, Liberal Alliance, the Free Greens or the Christian Democrats. Here you go, sir. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426192948	Thank you. A historically high number of Danes are without a permanent doctor, especially if you count the straw-man clinics, i.e. the clinics, such as. has been purchased through a doctor's name, in which all medical services have been delegated to temporary workers. Specifically, they are 215,000 Danes who are today without a family doctor. This is almost twice the number in 2018, and if you look at PLO forecasts for the coming years, you will in a few years have some 300,000 Danes without a family doctor. There is a great need to do something. Not only can we solve the problem by training more general practitioners; we also need to ensure that there is a permanent doctor in the clinic. Because it's about creating continuity between patient and doctor. Unfortunately, that is not the case today, for at the moment a doctor must actively or less actively own up to six outer numbers. It makes no sense that a doctor can own a number of clinics, so there may be one in Vordingborg, Hillerød, Herning, Kolding, Faaborg and Frederikshavn. Because there is no way to get an overview of how things are going in these clinics and to create a close relationship with the patients who frequent up to six outer numbers. That is why we want general practitioners to have only one external number, and that is also a wish of the general practitioners' organization. Why is it so important to have a permanent doctor? Yes, it is because citizens who do not have a family doctor are actually treated differently from those who have a permanent doctor. New research published in well-known journals shows this. In other words, the shorter the time the doctor and the patient have known each other, the greater the health problems the patient has. That's because without the family doctor, there's not gonna be a close relationship between the patient and the doctor. I hope that the Danish Parliament will support the proposal so that we can curb the spread of straw-man clinics and guarantee all Danes the right to their own family doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426193216	You're welcome, sir. Per Larsen. There are no brief comments and there is no indication that the Minister wishes to speak again. So since no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Health Committee. If none of you object, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426193243	For this election the following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 98 members: Social Democracy, Socialist People's Party, Radical Left, Enhedslisten, Free Green, Alternative, Inuit Ataqatigiit, Siumut and Javnaðarflokkurin; and a group of 80 members: Left, Conservative People's Party, Danish People's Party, New Civil, Liberal Alliance, Christian Democrats, Sambandsflokkurin, Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG), Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Naser Khader (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG). The groups have appointed the following members: 1 Ole Stavad (S) 2 Klaus Hækkerup (S) 3 Carsten Hansen (S) 4 Vagn Kjær-Hansen (SF) 5 Rasmus Beltofte (RV) 6 Lisbeth Torfing (EL) 7 Torsten Schack Pedersen (V) 8 Kim Valentin (V) 9 Peter Skaarup (DF) 10 Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF) 11 Jesper Roulund (KF) Notice of who has been elected according to the group's recommendation will be included in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220426193412	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting except to thank everyone for 61⁄2 good hours in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 27 April 2022, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
