ParlaMint-DK_20220422100003	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Thomase Danielse (V), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Peter Skaarup (DF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Susanne Zimmer (FG), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Jens Roh (KD), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG), Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG) and Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG): Motion no. B 197 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the active opt-out of organ donation from the age of 18 in Denmark (Citizen's Proposal)). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. Members of the Danish Parliament Søren Søndergaard (EL) and others. I have been informed that they wish to withdraw Question F 51 on the drawing up of the ballot paper for the referendum on the abolition of the Danish defence reserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422100119	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 26 April 2022. First of all, to justify the question, I give the floor to the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mr Beazley's question. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422100155	Thank you, Mr President. Today, in the Danish People's Party together with the Left and Conservatives, we have called the Minister for this question, which deals with a ban on various gang groups. And here we are very interested to hear what the government, including the Minister, has of course considered of further initiatives to get read up other similar groupings like Loyal To Familia, which were finally dissolved by the Supreme Court here last year. Surely no one can be surprised at the fact that the LTF is not the only criminal group that is burdening civil society, burdening the police, burdening the courts and, above all, burdening the criminal services where some are in prison for a long time. For the moment, the LTF has been banned, confirmed by the Supreme Court, and with that ban there should certainly be a basis for having similar groupings looked for and therefore also the basis for banning them. Because should we, as a society, accept that there are criminal groups that work through violence? No, of course we shouldn't. We should not accept it. There are two to tango, you might say, but in this respect there are many about dancing about the criminal market, all of which actually have the same agenda, namely to take over the business and criminal activities of the other group. So only banning the LTF, Loyal To Familia, does not do everything, it is a step in the right direction, but unfortunately we are far from achieving it. With the ban on the LTF, they've been cut. In other words, they cannot run around the streets carrying out demonstrations of power with their logo on their clothes. They cannot recruit in the same way as before, and of course it seems different to be a member of a banned grouping than a grouping that can run around and make itself visible. It almost goes without saying. But, of course, the ban does not mean that those concerned have completely disappeared and are instead feeding themselves through a law-abiding life of work and education and whatever else they might be. They're still gone. They are no longer so visible, but they are there in a different way than before, at least some of them. Because one rarely removes a criminal DNA in a human mind when a human being has actually got used to earning a lot of money and living the wild life just because one forbids them to exist. That is why we have this debate today. It is to look at what we can then do to ensure that we follow up both effectively the resolution ban that is given, but also look at all the other criminal gangs whose ugly face we see in everyday life. This applies, among other things, to: Brothas, and what else we hear about around the country. So the debate here today we are very interested in, and we are happy to hear what the Minister has to offer on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422100517	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his question. I give the floor to the Minister of Justice for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422100529	Thank you for the floor. Let me start by stating that the government's position is perfectly clear. We should never accept that a bunch of hardened criminals are allowed to create insecurity among ordinary Danes with violence and crime. The government will go very far in the fight against the gangs. That is why, of course, we also welcome the opening of further gang dissolution cases if the authorities consider that this is possible. I am, and I think everyone here is, satisfied with the Supreme Court's judgment of 1 September last year on the dissolution of the LTF. The judgment stated that criminal groups could be disbanded if there was no reasonable doubt that the grouping constituted an association and that it also had an illegal purpose. This has given the police another important tool in the fight against criminal gangs. Because even if the dissolution of a grouping does not solve the problems with the individual criminal members, as Mr. Peter Skaarup also said before, so it is the police's assessment that the ban has helped significantly weaken the LTF. The Supreme Court's ruling means, among other things, that wearing clothes with the LTF logo and other visible features in public spaces and in prisons is, of course, also punishable. The judgment also means that persons may be punished for continuing the activities of the LTF, even if they do so in another name. Police estimate that after being banned, the LTF has largely refrained from visible manifestations in public spaces. Furthermore, the ban has helped to limit the LTF's ability to recruit new members. So it's been positive. At the same time, however, the police consider that the former LTF members have to some extent continued the crime on which the gang group is typically based. This is true, for example. organized weapons and narcotics crime, killing and attempted murder. In addition, since the ban, the personal group has also been involved in violent conflicts. It is therefore also true and important that the police maintain massive pressure on the gangs and follow developments very closely. We have also helped to secure this through the gang packages over the years, and with the multi-year agreement for the police and prosecutors, we will further significantly strengthen the fight against gang crime. Denmark will have a significantly larger police force, and Danish police have established a new, strong national investigation unit to strengthen investigation and investigation of, among other things. gang crime. In addition, the government has also put in place a large number of other measures to combat gangs and insecurity-building crime. This is true, for example. increased monitoring. With the government's security and security package, the police have been given more and better tools to promote the safety and security of the Danes, and according to plan there are among others. set up 300 security cameras around the country • set up and set up, they must be set up by the end of this year, but they are well on their way. In addition, we have introduced temporary border controls against Sweden, and in 2019 a Border Centre Øresund was established in the police to strengthen cooperation with Sweden and combat cross-border financial crime and organised crime. The border centre is one of eight units, which was merged in the context of the creation of the new national special crime unit, which is also called the NSK. The National Police have announced that the NSK will maintain the fight against serious crime from Sweden, and the NSK has among other things. an investigation section and an analysis section dedicated to the effort. In addition, with the government's proposal • Security for all Danes we suggested, as you know, giving the police the opportunity to issue a security-building residence ban. Among other things, it should: be a new and effective tool against insecure young people, including those associated with the gang environment. The proposal was that groups of safe and dominating people should leave certain areas and thus give the area back to the people who were previously banished from those who avoided them and who did not dare to be there. Unfortunately, there was no support for the government's proposals on this point. In the fight against criminal groups, we must use all the tools at our disposal. That is why the National Police, together with the Attorney General and the Ministry of Justice, have also decided that, in the light of the Supreme Court's ruling in the LTF case, an analysis should be carried out on the possibility of opening proceedings against criminal gang groups. This is a comprehensive and thorough analysis. So before you get to the resolution cases, you obviously have to look at the gangs and assess whether there is a basis for resolution cases. And that is the work that has been started. In conclusion, I would just like to emphasise that the position is clear. Of course, it needs to be clarified whether we can dissolve other groupings, and if the authorities consider that there is a basis for this, that is obviously something that we welcome. Gang crime does not belong in Denmark, and from the government we will go as far as possible to fight the gangs. As you know, a thorough evaluation of the initiatives has recently been carried out in previous gang packages with the service inspection. And the service inspection shows that the many actions carried out with the gang packages have worked far along the way, but also that in certain areas there are challenges and spaces to further tighten the grip on the gangs. This is true, for example. The financial crime of gangs and their use of weapons. That is why, together with the authorities, we have also launched a study into how the challenges can be addressed and how they can be strengthened. We are going to follow up with new initiatives in the fight against gang crime. Thank you for the floor. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422101145	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his reply. There is now the possibility of a brief comment from the rapporteurs, and Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti, requested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422101155	Thank you for that, and thank you for the government's receipt and for agreeing, and for working to get these gangs dissolved. I have two questions. One is whether the government thinks you can use this case against Loyal To Familia, which has been directly dissolved, to dissolve other associations or criminal gangs. That is one question. The second question is about the time perspective, because it is clear that we are probably some who are very impatient. The government, as I remember, has said for some time now that it wanted to make a move, that there should now be negotiations and such things as that. Is it before summer, or is it before Christmas, or when does the minister think it should happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422101242	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422101243	There is no doubt, in relation to whether the judgment against the LTF can be used, that it can be used because it led to the result that the LTF was banned. A legal framework was thus put in place, within which we can say that if we can also lift the burden of proof and so on, we can actually ban this type of association and organisation. So on the second question, that of the time perspective, because it was also one of the things that filled a great deal in the LTF case, and when it succeeded in the LTF case, it was because a quite extensive material had been provided. Well, it's not an easy burden of proof to lift, but the police succeeded anyway. Nor should it be, because we should not go in and close associations, because it is one of our democratic pillars that we have the right to form associations and so on. But the time perspective is in this way complicated by, and justifiably complicated by, the fact that the burden of proof must also be lifted, that we must therefore be sure that we have a good hold before we raise a case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422101349	The next brief remark is to Mrs Britt Bager, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422101352	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister. It was not quite clear to me whether the analysis was being carried out, because at one point the Minister said that an analysis had to be carried out, and then later he said that the analysis was under way. So first of all, is the analysis started? And when does the Minister expect this analysis to be completed? I fully understand that these are very complicated cases... we need to be sure that we can lift the burden of proof... but has the analysis itself started, and when does the minister expect it to be completed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422101426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422101427	Those are some good questions. The work on the analysis is expected to be completed by the middle of this year, and then, just as we have had an overview of different groups, we have had a look at different groups, and perhaps there will be one or more groups in which we say that there is a basis here for moving forward with a real case and thus creating the evidence that needs to be done so that the case can also be held in court, if I may say so. So that's where we are. It is expected that the analysis will be completed in the middle of the year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422101500	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no further brief comments to the Minister of Justice. And then the rapporteur goes ahead, and the first rapporteur to speak is the rapporteur for the questions put by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422101528	Thank you to the Minister for Justice for reviewing where we stand in relation to gang crime. We basically think it is good that the Minister has set this in motion and that some analysis work is under way, but it is clear that this is not an area that is unknown to us in here. A very large part of our employment is to help law-abiding citizens in Denmark against crime and, above all, organised crime, which is behind a very large percentage of all crime, where weapons and violence are used in Denmark. That is why we are very impatient when it comes to the fact that this work is going to start, not least the tool that disbands and bans criminal gangs. Because it makes it very difficult to recruit when you can't advertise with your amazing association, LTF or Brothas or Hells Angels, or whatever they're called. And that's why we're a few of us in here who are concerned that we're effectively following up on the deep plate that's so we're gonna keep being impatient about getting rid of these criminal gangs that make life insecure for the Danes in everyday life. As mentioned earlier, a ban does not necessarily mean that the gangs disappear completely or that their criminal activities disappear completely. We can also see that at the moment, but it means that it is difficult to be visible. It's hard to recruit young people aged 16-17, maybe younger, into these criminal environments if you can't advertise. In other words, let us imagine a political party, without comparison, which is not allowed to advertise, must not come forward with its views, with posters and the like. It would certainly make it difficult to get people into political work if we could not. So you make it difficult for them as grouping, and if you can extend it to other groupings, we must of course have it done. As I said, we no longer see these LTF logos in the street picture, but if we see it a rare time, then the police have a tool to take action against it. But we can still see away all the other criminal groups, and we want the same thing for them, namely that all groupings with the same aims and objectives as the LTF should be banned and dissolved. When we look at what has happened to the ban, then the police have been and we have also passed legislation in the Danish Parliament • some better tools than in the past to enforce such a ban; for good reasons, because you have not been used to having such a ban. But we must also acknowledge that when they then put their face out, there may be cases... at least in the Danish People's Party we have discovered where there may be a need for extra tools from the police to be able to snatch these factions. Because we all know that if the cost of being active in these environments is so large and insurmountable that the family says stop, that the children say stop, that the grandparents say stop, that everyone says stop, yes, it actually has an effect on the individual. It can be so annoying, so annoying, so impossible to operate with police coverage that a gang member simply gives up because the surroundings say it's over. So there are more things than breaking up groupings that are in this. There is also some secondary legislation; there is enforcement. Let me just mention criminal aliens, that is, some of them are not Danish citizens; should we not then get them deported, all of them, all of them together? I think the Danes expect action from the Danish Parliament about this. On behalf of a number of parties, I am going to read out a proposal for adoption which we hope will be able to create a majority and it looks fortunately here today, and it is on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Conservatives, the New Citizens' Party and the Danish People's Party. And it sounds like this: Proposals for adoption The Parliament sees with great concern the development of criminal gang groups, which in every way collide with a civilised society. This results in perfectly innocent victims and neighborhoods who must live daily in fear because of the primitive and dangerous behaviour of these members. The Folketing believes that citizens of a free society must be able to live without fear of the ravages of criminal gangs and that society must do everything in its power to disband and disband these groups. The Danish Parliament notes that the dissolution of the LTF has had an effect and considers it essential that the dissolution of illegal groupings is effectively enforced. Parliament calls on the government to work actively to disband other criminal gangs. • V 71).
ParlaMint-DK_20220422102026	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. The next rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422102042	Thank you for that and thank you to the President for reminding me of the Rules of Procedure. I've only been here for three years now, so it's good to be reminded of how it works. From this point of view too, I would like to thank the authors of the various parties for giving us an opportunity to make something absolutely clear, namely that we should neither accept nor accept gangs here in Denmark. The gangs are made up of brutal, cynical criminals who commit serious subversive crimes. They spread insecurity. They spread unrest among ordinary law - abiding citizens. We simply must by no means accept or even turn to shooting in our streets and young people being recruited into a life of hard-boiled criminals. We must therefore put the gangs under constant pressure and in this context use all the tools we have to work hard to beat down the gangs. With the decision of the Supreme Court on the LTF, to which the questioner refers in the question, it has now been stated that there is a new tool in the box, namely the possibility of being able to dissolve a criminal grouping if the right conditions are met. As we have just heard from the Minister for Justice explaining, disbanding the grouping, weakening it and limiting its ability to make a living and to recruit new members. It would, of course, be naive to think that in this respect it would mean that the individual members of the individual groups would thereby stop doing crime and suddenly become law-abiding citizens, as Mr. Peter Skaarup mentioned, but dissolution is just one of the many different tools that must make life miserable for the gangs and for their members. The effort towards the gangs has been many years with several initiatives and gang packages that have built on top of each other. For the gangs are developing new methods, which is why we must also be constantly ready to find new solutions to the threat to our security and security posed by the gangs. Governments have in turn turned a rigid focus on the gangs. With the multi-year agreement between the police and the prosecution, a significant strengthening of police action against gang crime is ensured. A new strong national investigation unit, the NSK, has been established to strengthen the investigation and investigation of inter alia. gang crime, and with the government's security and security package, the police have also been given more and better tools to promote the safety and security of the Danes. Last year we would also have liked to have given the police better opportunities to issue security-building residence bans. It should get people who create insecurity in certain areas away so that residents could live and move safely in their local area, but, as you know, some parties did not want to be involved. So we in the Social Democratic Party will go very, very far to combat the gangs, and now there is a new tool in the box, namely the dissolution of the gangs as groupings, which has been shown to work in relation to the LTF. So it is a good thing, as the Minister for Justice says, that there is work to be done in the process to see if we can start even more resolution proceedings against other criminal gang groups. Then, of course, I am also pleased that the government is maintaining the tight grip on the criminal gangs and that it is looking at how to tighten the grip further. We are therefore in favour of the text of the adoption which was read out by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Peter Skaarup just now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422102415	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. This is how I move forward in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Beazley. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422102429	Thank you. Unfortunately, there are gangs in every country on this planet. I think we might even boast that here in Denmark we are one of the fewest gangs or gang members, and that is not without reason. We have taken due care in this area. We have adopted one gang package after another here in the Folketing, and we have thus ensured that every third rocker or gang member has today replaced his address to the prison. I guess they're not in prison for a short time. Many have sentences in prison for 20 years, and it's probably 20 years without parole unless you go into an exit program. So we've taken due care. But it is important that we do not just rest on the laurels and say that is good enough, because then things will go wrong. It's just like Sweden. And Denmark is not Sweden, and Denmark should not be Sweden. Denmark should not be Sweden at all in this area, and fortunately neither are we. But, as you know, this requires us to be vigilant and not to rest on our laurels. The gangs need to be stressed, and one of the opportunities to stress them is among other things. the solution of the LTF. The question is, Does it have any effect? Isn't it the same people? Have they become patterns of virtue from one day to the next? No, I don't think so. However, as previous speakers have said, it has a stressful effect on the gangs that they cannot perform in, for example, the clothes they usually wear and, moreover, behave in the way they usually do. So it should certainly not be untested either. If other associations, gangs, etc. are to be dissolved, it is, if necessary, Article 78 of the Constitution that we are to enter, and Article 78 lays down two conditions for the dissolution of an association. This is not something we do in Denmark. It has only happened three times in the past, namely in 1874, 1924 and 2021. There are two main conditions to be met. It must be an association, on the one hand, and it must be an association that acts by violence or by similar means. And how is that to be defined? The Supreme Court has been so kind in the LTF judgment, which was handed down on September 1, 2021, to give the recipe. And I will just read out the premises used by the Supreme Court, for then I think most people will be able to say: Yes, of course it can be done; they are completely analogous to many other gangs. In the section Loyal To Familia is an association, and the Supreme Court writes the following: "After the court of evidence, the Court of First Instance has founded, among other things, the fact that since its establishment in 2013, Loyal to Familia has had a firm and hierarchical structure with a management and various departments, and that over the years new members have joined, while others have resigned. It is also considered that the Loyal to Familia has been aimed at systematically providing detainee members and their relatives with financial support on the basis of quota payments, that there have been general rules for the conduct of members with regard to police, other members and the local community, and that, in accordance with specific rules, members have identified themselves with regard to the outside world, inter alia, by: clothing showing belonging to Loyal to Familia. It was the question of whether it was an association. I think most people can say that they can find other bikers or gangs who meet these criteria. The second criterion was that of violence. Here the Supreme Court in Loyal to Familia writes: "After the court's trial, the Land Court has based itself on the fact that it has been known and accepted in Loyal to Familia that the members committed serious crime and that extensive personal crime was committed in the form of, among other things, criminal offences. Homicide and attempted murder in Loyal to Familias's name. In summary, the Court has held that Loyal to Familia has used violence and threats of violence as a regular part of its activities. Do we know other associations where that might be the case? Yeah, I think we all do, and if you're in doubt, you can check the Members' CVs in the Crime Register. So there is every reason to try again. Everything must be tested, and it will be tested, among other things. through the adoption text and through the investigations to be carried out by the Attorney General. Of course, we do not collect lost cases, but as I have indicated, I certainly believe that the possibility of banning other associations is present.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422102952	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422103008	Danish legal history was written when the Supreme Court in September last year, I believe, stated that the provisional ban on the gang Loyal To Familia from September 2018 was legal and that the gang with the Supreme Court's judgment was dissolved and banned. The Supreme Court found that Loyal To Familia had to be regarded as an association and also that it committed extensive and serious crime and that it was an ordinary part of the association's activities. Like the High Court, the Supreme Court came to the conclusion that the group could be banned and dissolved on the basis of Article 78 of the Constitution, which states that freedom of association is not unconditional and if an association has crime as part of their general activity, it can be prohibited in the courts. Loyal To Familia has for a number of years been a prominent and very unpleasant part of the crime picture in the capital, and it has been known and accepted in the gang that the members committed serious crime, including large-scale personal crime in the form of inter alia. Homicide and attempted murder, in the name of Loyal Two Familia. The verdict against the LTF shows that it is possible to dissolve similar gang groups if the conditions are met. The question is: should we ban more people? Yes, we have banned the LTF as an association, but it is not difficult to figure out that the criminal individuals of which the LTF consisted and the crime they commit continue to exist, just as it is obvious that sooner or later these types will end up in conflict with other groupings. And that is probably also what we can read in the service review of the gang packages that the government put forward here in February, namely that, in relation to criminal activities, it is very uncertain whether the ban has an effect on them exactly. The gangs and rockers are a huge problem, and not least Loyal To Familia, who as late as August last year, three years after the police's temporary ban, posed in the media wearing LTF clothes, now in the company of members of a Swedish gang. And if I remember correctly, there are already some 400 gang members in our prisons, and there is not much to suggest that the gang problem is on the backs of either the ban on gangs or the very harsh penalties that we have introduced over recent years. The problem with gang-related crime just has a lot of facets, and I would warn against believing that a ban is a quick fix. We must take up a fight with the culture that gangs are exponents of, where their presence in the street picture, readiness for violence, parade driving, muscle cars, obvious drug trafficking and pressure on citizens and local shop life in order to charge protection money have taken on a scale that violates the sense of justice and creates a fundamental insecurity. Basically, I believe that instead of putting much more pressure on investigation and prevention, when we are about to make new gang packages, on the law enforcement of the many rules that we actually already have, and on the prevention of bringing gang members to account for what they are committing. SF has actually presented a number of tools in a gang package, which takes care of some of those things. It has been suggested that you should be allowed to use agents in backward investigations, what you cannot do today. We have proposed that resources be set aside in relation to money laundering, VAT carousels and financial crime that they engage in. We have also proposed the creation of a certification scheme for leasing companies, which we have unfortunately also seen them engage in, penalties for missing from on-call conversations and also the possibility of exchanging information more easily on gang members' finances and much more. We have to say about the ban here that the Attorney General has previously examined whether there was a basis for raising a prohibition case against, for example. Hizb ut-Tahir and Hells Angels and Bandidos. There were no grounds for bringing cases at the time, and there are also doubts as to whether banning a gang is not also a very long and complex process. It is not a walk in the park to go that way, and that is why we must also look very carefully at the benefits of a ban. We in the SF are not opposed to looking at whether we can do more in relation to bans, but it is important for us to stress that a ban strategy is inadequate and certainly cannot stand alone. In fact, we recognise that a ban on backmarks and gangmarks can have an effect on young people and recruitment, because it is not so clearly a marker and branding for them and tempts them to go that way, and we read that in the service of the gang packages. So we are not rejecting any more bans where it makes sense. In general terms, we also think that we should be better at preventing gangs from being seen as attractive to young people, and therefore there can be a way forward. I would like to read out a text for adoption on behalf of the SF, and it reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Parliament sees with great seriousness the violence of bikers and gang groups and sees it as a threat to society's general order and citizens' security, security and freedom. The Folketing believes that bikers and gang groups' crime and violence should continue to be one of the police's focus areas. The Danish Parliament also believes that there should be much greater political focus on preventive work to prevent children and young people from being dragged into the biker and gang environment. Prohibition can be a tool for reducing the status of gangs in the eyes of young people and should be used where it makes sense. • V 72). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422103559	Thank you to the rapporteur. The text of the adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur and the first is to Mrs Britt Bager, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422103608	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech to the SF. What I was just pondering about is the rapporteur's comment that putting gang members in prison does not have the big impact, because a lot of gang members are still missing. It is quite true that the problems have not been solved, but does this mean that the SF does not recognise that giving the gangs harder penalties works?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422103636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422103637	I do not know if it can be said that it works, because we are continuing to put new gang members in prison. But one can say that it works in that way, that they have at least been removed from the street for a while, and I think that is actually worth something. There is no doubt that when they shoot loose and have criminal activities, they can only do so when they are there in freedom. But if it works on the size of the gang problem itself, I can be somewhat more unsure. We keep them, yes, and that gives the citizens a breathing space, and I think that is actually worth something, but whether it solves the gang problem itself, I do not think. I believe that a much more facetised strategy is needed, and that is why we are actually proposing that we put a little more pressure on the investigation, because the prevention of being discovered in the activities you do, I think, is really, really important. The threat of punishment I think actually means something.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422103735	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422103744	Like Mrs Britt Bager, I would also like to address this issue of prison sentence. It is true, as the rapporteur says, that, as long as you are in prison as a gang member, hopefully you will not be able to do anything on the street unless you have access to telephones or something like that and can coordinate something like that. We have, of course, been wary of this together. But what I havecelerated a little over and would like to hear the rapporteur a little more about is whether it really does not have an effect? Can we not say that the cost of being a gang member is insurmountable when you are severely punished, for example. Do you commit murder or assault? Does it not really have a great effect on the gang member who may experience the threat from society that we simply will not accept, and therefore there will be a severe prison sentence if you do so and so?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422103836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422103838	The point is that we do not actually know, because we have never really examined it. On the other hand, we know something from the research on how penalties generally work. It is known that there is a general preventive effect of punishment, which means that the fact that there is a penalty has a preventive effect. But it typically doesn't have much more effect to raise the penalties further. Do you have to stop doing that? Yes, in the SF we have actually backed up a lot of the sharpened penalties compared to gang members, but if it solves the problem of whether you get more effect out of it, I'm not sure. I think we have persistent problems, and now we have new gangs, so punishment is probably not what alone does it. I think we need to place much more emphasis on investigation, because there is something preventative about the risk of discovery, and we actually know that from research too, and then I simply think that we will have to become more skilled in relation to the young people who are going into the gangs' networks. That is, in fact, where we can stop it and limit the problem very much, and I do not really feel we are very good yet. We haven't really found the tune on how to break the food chains to the gangs, and we should be much more concerned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422103948	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422103949	I think there's a little too much Poul Nyrup over that, wool in mouth, but okay. Now let me ask you something else. Exhibiting is also one of the things I think you hear from the gang environments you have respect for, and it resonates when someone gets a expulsion sentence and is sent home. So I would like to hear as part of this effort whether SF will support the expulsion of all foreign gang members who commit organised crime in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104024	The SF supports the expulsion of criminals. If what lies in the question is whether we can tighten more, I would say that I think that is difficult within the framework of the conventions. However, we clearly support the fact that as many people as possible are being expelled from crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104043	The next brief remark is to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104046	Thank you. My colleague referred to the speech by the SF rapporteur as such a little Poul Nyrupsk; I think we all know what it is. And I would also like to sign by saying that it sounds as if the SF can keep all horses at once, i.e. both that it is good to put people in prison and that it is also questionable to put people in prison. I do not know if you can say that it works, the rapporteur starts by saying, and so, with the attitude that costs us crazy sums to have people sitting in prisons, does the SF not agree that the rules should be changed? And with regard to the fact that we adopted Paragraph 81a on the double sentence, that is what gives 20 years of imprisonment what is SF's attitude to the provision: should it remain in the criminal code, or should we, according to what the rapporteur said, say that the rapporteur does not know whether it works, have it reduced? There's no need to spend a lot of money on something that doesn't work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104139	I understand that when you come from the right, you may find it a little harder to understand SF's legal policy. We have more gripes in the drawer, I think, than the right wing, which I think continues to screw on the same elements and maybe then get the same result, one might say. I would just like to appeal to us to devote more effort to prevention, and perhaps the right wing should also start to think a little about what it is then for some initiatives that could lead to better prevention. In relation to the double sentences, the SF did not support it. It was, by the way, while I was not sitting in the Folketing, so I do not remember exactly the exact reasons for it. But I would also like to question whether 20 years in prison, if you can sentence someone 10 years in prison, will help twice as well. I don't know, but I may have some doubts about that. After all, these people are being let out at some point, and the question is whether, after 20 years, you are not completely unfit to enter society. Maybe we should practice finding a carrot that can get these people to leave their crime. I fully agree that some people do not want to, and we must then treat them accordingly, but I think we are best motivated to leave the gang life when we have them in custody in our prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104301	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104303	Now we got a new variant of Poul Nyrup, quote: one might question. No, what I asked for was: Is SF of a view today, after which, for example, the provision in section 81a on double prison sentences should be reduced because we do not know if it works?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104325	But it doesn't really matter what I think in this context, and what SF thinks in this context, because there's a large majority for it. We did not support the rule when it was introduced, and we still do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104336	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104340	Thank you. The rapporteur speaks of prevention, and I am in total agreement. We know after a count that about a little more than 90 percent. of the gang members convicted over a two-year period have an immigrant background. We also know that non-western immigrants with Danish citizenship represent an enormous proportion of the registered gang members, despite the fact that they are only approx. 3% of the population. And we also know that a great many immigrant children grow up with domestic violence, a much greater share than if compared to Danish families. Is the rapporteur willing to take preventive action there too and perhaps say that if you commit crime, for example? violence against his children, so is it out of the guard that it can have a deterrent effect on the families who have not understood that in this country we are not raising our children with violence, with beatings, with punches, and to ensure that those who do so have a consequence?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104444	After all, we do not think that any child should grow up with domestic violence, regardless of the colour of his skin, and we must, of course, take action against that. I will leave it up to the courts to assess when expulsions can be brought into play, but we must also realise that in the situation where there is violence against children, children will be punished, because they will probably be expelled with the parents. In fact, I do not quite know how to deal with such matters, if the violence is so bad that they actually have to be placed elsewhere, or if you can work with it in some way in support at home. I think I will leave it up to the courts to assess that, but I would very much like to take part in looking at tools to protect children much more from violence. It is clear that there are no children to grow up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104528	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104530	But after all, most children have both a mother and a father, and if it is a father or a father and brothers who beat up a child or several children in the family, is it not better that the father and those brothers, if they are so many at once, go off guard so that the mother can live on with the children who have been subjected to the violence rather than that we say that we should now protect the family and leave the danger here, because it is probably best for everyone that you have a violent father or even some violent brothers to stay in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104602	I do not think my answer will be much different. I think that we should protect all children from violence and what is best in the individual family, I think there are people who know more about in the municipality where they work on these social matters. And if the courts consider that it can be deported, then I think we should do it. Our position is that when crime is committed and it can be deported, of course it must be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104629	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422104641	Thank you. Here we are again, I'd like to say. This question of how to get rid of the gangs is of course something that naturally concerns us legal rapporteurs, and that is why we have discussed it here in this Chamber a great many times. I don't think anyone in here thinks bikers and gang groups are a good thing for our society. And, as I said before, we have been extremely concerned about the problems that precisely those groupings are causing in our society, and many gang packages have been adopted; yet there are still gang crimes. Now the LTF, Loyal To Familia, has been banned, settled by a case in the Supreme Court. I think that many of the initiatives that have been taken in the gang packages, and indeed this ban on Loyal To Familia, have had a huge effect, not really on the problem itself, not really on the gang conflict itself, but it has had a huge effect in such a purely communicative way, because the parties behind the gang packages have been able to go out and say to the people: look how hard we are hitting the gangs; they should not think they can get away with that behaviour. I don't think anyone thinks they should either. I just want to say as someone who lives in that neighborhood, how much of this gang conflict is playing out that it hasn't worked. And I do not think there is anyone who hates the gang conflict more than the people who live where it is playing out, and that is why I think it is really, really a pity that we are not putting in with the initiatives that we actually know work, that we continue to do more of what we can see does not work. Because we have not received any less gang crime; on the contrary, gang crime has become grosser and coarser. We are seeing more and more violent violence among the gang groups and among the gang members who are in our prisons. I do not think it is a secret, and it is certainly not for us who are working with legal policy that gang criminals are a major problem for our criminal services, who are understaffed and who lack money, so not the gang members, but the criminal services. I don't know what it's like in the backyard of your others, but I can say that in my backyard, it's exactly the same people who do shady things that did it before Loyal To Familia was banned. Now there's just something else on their hoodie and their hats. So I understand the intentions of my fellow Members to stop the gang conflict, to reduce the gangs, because I fully share that intention, and that is why I am so sorry that we are not setting off any more of the things that we know to work. Let us now give priority to prevention. Now let's stop the food chain to the gangs. Let's make sure the exit programs in the D.C. are working. It's no good when you as a gang member finally make the sensible decision to say: Now I don't want to be in this gang or biker group anymore; now I actually want to be in an exit program, then it's six months before that exit program can get started. I think this is a place where we must give priority to many more resources, just as we must on prevention. I also believe that we must take much harder action against the gangs' economy. We know that they use financial crime as a tool to keep their shop going, I almost want to say, even if it makes it sound like something that is super cozy; I don't really think it is. But we know that this is happening, so let's deal with these VAT carousels; let's stop them, and let's look at how else the gangs make their money. It is no secret that they do so by selling cannabis; it also does so by trafficking in human beings. So let us deal with the things that we know work. I think that would be much better than we discuss in here how many more gang groups we can ban. I think we owe it to those people who experience the consequences of gang rivalry every single day to take it seriously and put in where we know it works. That is certainly the setting of the Enhedslisten. Unfortunately, the Radical Left could not be here today, and I shall read out this text of adoption on behalf of Enhedslisten and Radicals: Proposals for adoption The Parliament sees with great seriousness the violence of bikers and gang groups and sees it as a threat to society's general order and the security, security and freedom of its citizens. The Folketing believes that bikers and gang groups' crime and violence should continue to be one of the police's focus areas. The Danish Parliament also believes that there should be much greater political focus on preventive work to prevent children and young people from being dragged into the biker and gang environment. • V 73).
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105206	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There are a few brief comments. First, it is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105213	Thank you. I also believe that banning individual groups does not make the gangs disappear, and I also agree that we need to take action earlier and dig deeper into a spade. I like it when the rapporteur says that we must stop the food chain for the gangs, but I am not sure that the rapporteur and I agree on how it is done. Rosa Lund let's try). Now that we know that 94%. of those convicted of gang crime over a two-year period have an immigrant background of 94 per cent. Does the rapporteur accept that there is a link between immigration policy and gang crime? And could the rapporteur imagine that the food chain to the gangs, which the rapporteur himself is talking about, could be stopped by having a more responsible immigration policy, in which we do not let those people into our society who are obviously creating more crime and more worthwhile than if they come from elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105319	I will say yes and no, Mrs Pernille Vermund. Because I think one of the reasons why we have not solved this problem is that we treat gang crime as a foreign policy and not as a legal policy. Having said that, I can see what the figures, as Mrs Pernille Vermund also points out here, show, so I believe that this is actually the result of a failed integration policy. There are some young people here who throughout their lives have experienced being expelled from the Danish society • they cannot get an internship because they have the wrong surname it; they cannot become Danish citizens, so they cannot be allowed to vote for the election of the Parliament; we have not bothered to use enough energy to teach them to speak our language and then you may choose a different and much worse community. So yes, Mrs Pernille Vermund, in this way I believe that there is also a responsibility in relation to integration policy here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105411	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105413	I do not think there is any evidence of what the rapporteur is highlighting here. If you look over to the other side of the Sound, there is a country called Sweden. They have done exactly the opposite of us: they have handed out citizenship in vain, they have allowed people to live as they like, and they have had a political correctness that has made it impossible to talk about the problems that we have not even been able to record. So they have done exactly the opposite of us, and yet, as the rapporteur knows, gang crime in Sweden is extremely grotesque, and it is funny that it is exactly the same people who are members of the gangs over there as it is here and as it is in the rest of Europe. Does the rapporteur not recognise that there is a connection between Islam, Muslim culture, the Middle Eastern culture and the way one lives together, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth and then the gang crime and the raison d'être of our society that we see in the West?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105509	No, I simply do not believe that there is a connection between religion and gang crime. I really don't think there is. I do not know whether Mrs Pernille Vermund is aware of this, but two thirds of the Danish gang register with the police is made up of Danish citizens. So what's the reason they've become gang criminals? That's one thing. The second point is that I think we are all looking very seriously at what is happening in Sweden, but this is the first time that I have heard that it should be political correctness to advocate the legalisation of cannabis, which is one of the things that we in the Enhedslist believe could greatly help solve the problem. They have not done that to me in Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105544	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105548	I must admit that there are some things in what Mrs Rosa Lund of the Enhedslisten says, which do not rhyme at all, I think. In other words, one of the reasons why we have gang crime among immigrant groups is that we cannot get education, we cannot have the right to vote, we cannot have citizenship. Why can't you do that? Well, if you can't get those things, I guess it's because you're a criminal. The second point I would like to make here is that Mrs Rosa Lund says that two thirds of Danish citizens use it as an argument that it is probably not so wrong with the possible Swedish conditions in Denmark. Well, is Mrs Rosa Lund not aware at all that some of the great challenges in prisons are precisely those that have a foreign background, some that question Danish society. That is also why the LTF has been banned. After all, you have so much been behind questioning the exercise of authority that some of our prison officials have wanted to carry out. Is Mrs. Rosa Lund not even aware of these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105657	I am fully aware of the arguments put forward by Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup is here, because I've heard them before. I just want to say that if you want to misunderstand, it's easy. I specifically replied to a question from Mrs Pernille Vermund about whether there is a connection between Islam and gang crime, not generally about Swedish conditions. But it's okay if Mr. Cole... Peter Skaarup insists on hearing something else. It wasn't supposed to be the first time. That's one thing. The second thing is: Why is it difficult to become a Danish citizen? It is because, among other things, Mr. Peter Skaarup and his party have been in charge of tightening the rules so much for many years and have been in charge of expelling a special group of people from our society. I don't think it's a secret either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105738	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105739	Yes, we have been in charge of the fact that if you have committed crime, you should not be a Danish citizen. Or if you have huge debts to the public or don't bother doing something in Denmark and don't contribute, you shouldn't be a Danish citizen. I guess that's common sense. I know that Enhedslisten may have had a different view. The Enhedslisten has consistently opposed all the initiatives that have been made against gang criminals and some of the foreign citizens who do not bother Denmark. But that does not change the fact that the reason why they cannot become Danish citizens is that they are criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105813	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105814	Well, sir. Peter Skaarup, if you were born and raised in Denmark, I think it is completely unreasonable that you cannot become a Danish citizen and participate in this society on equal terms with the rest of us. And now this debate is happening, as always. We are discussing a very serious question of legal policy, which is about how we get rid of gangs and bikers, and yet we end up discussing immigration and integration policies in this Chamber. That is fine with me, because I am burdened with being both rapporteur for the law and rapporteur for foreigners, but I think it is a pity for the debate on how to eliminate gang crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105853	The next brief remark is to Mrs Britt Baker, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105856	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. I just want to hear the rapporteur very briefly about what the rapporteur's party has achieved over the last three years through the policy that the rapporteur is talking about here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105909	Well, we've got several things through. Well, we have one of them. ensure that there has been a higher family allowance for families on cash benefits, which I think is an insanely important social measure to ensure that young people do not end up in crime. I think that is a very good initiative that Enhedslisten has got through. Having said that, Mrs Britt Baker, it is no secret that the Enhedslisten and the government disagree very much in the area of legal policy, which is why we also disagree with the government and have voted differently in relation to the Social Democracy for the last many gang packages.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105950	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422105954	So the Support Party Enhedslisten's biggest political victory in the area of legal policy to prevent gang crime is a higher family allowance. I think that's gonna be more of a comment. But thanks for the coffee, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110013	Firstly, we are a parliamentary basis. Secondly, our greatest legal victory, Mrs Britt Baker, is the consent law, but it has nothing to do with gang crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110021	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110027	Thank you. Mrs Lund just said a moment ago that she was sorry that she could not be allowed to talk about justice policy and what we are discussing today, and that is why I will try to come to her for a little while, even though it was an exciting debate that has been going on over here. I think that Mrs Rosa Lund talks about many fine things, I just want to hear whether Mrs Rosa Lund will not acknowledge that, of course, it matters that you have the opportunity to dissolve gangs. No one in here has claimed that it alone is what stops gang crime, but that it does of course matter because it then makes the food chain, which is among other things. where Mrs Rosa Lund lives, it is harder to recruit young people for gang crime, and it is more stressful to the gangs. That's what the police say. That is what we know from experience. That's why we do it. I just want to know if Enhedslisten will not acknowledge that it is, of course, a tool. No one claims that it is the only tool, but it is a very, very important tool for our police to be able to dissolve the gangs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110121	I have a lot of doubts as to whether this is a real tool, I must be honest, because what has also happened after the ban on this grouping, Loyal To Familia, is that, unfortunately, for some young people, it has become a bit cool to be in something that is a little secret and something where we can be grown against them culture. I very much disagree with that. I do not think that is the right thing to do. I'm not sure it's helped this way. I heard what the police said. I have also followed the hard work of the Attorney General, who started when Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen was Minister of Justice to get this grouping banned. It's not that I look black and white like that, but frankly, I'm worried that this is gonna work. If we look at Germany, where very extreme Nazi groups have been banned for many years, then we have also made a ban and say: I do not apply to freedom of assembly. End of story, done. There it has had the opposite effect, and that is why I am just saying that we also have to look at what happens when groups are banned. Yeah, that must be my answer, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110227	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110230	Thank you. There's just no one in here claiming that this is the only tool. I just think it is very important to make it clear that, when we fight gang crime, we must provide the police with as many tools as possible in the toolbox to combat these brutal, cynical criminals who are running around the streets shooting among civilians, and that is what this is all about, and there is the need to be able to dissolve an assembly, after all, just an important tool. They're under a lot of stress. It makes it more difficult to recruit new young people, and that is why we do. No one claims that it is the only tool. We have a lot of other good things, including in agreements that Enhedslisten is part of. So I just miss the fact that the rapporteur may recognise that this is also an important tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110309	I also believe that I have not put anything in my mouth and blamed others for saying that this was the only tool. I don't think that's what I've heard either. I'm just extremely concerned that you're going to use this as a sleeping pillow for the first time, and secondly, I'm not sure that it has the effect that Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg himself emphasizes that it does. I think it can have a so-called backlash, i.e. it can have the exact opposite effect of what you want. And that is why I miss the fact that this government is taking a few more steps in the field of prevention, which I really think is what we are missing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110343	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110355	Thank you for the floor. In Denmark, we must never accept gang wars in our streets. The gangs must be under constant pressure, and they should have no doubt that we are right behind them. We need to be ready to drop the hammer, and we need to be ready to hit back. We have shown in the past what we can do with the gang packages that Søren Pape Poulsen introduced as Minister of Justice. They are extremely effective, and with them we have set up the penalties for the criminals so that the criminal bikers spend longer behind bars rather than in freedom, where they can bother ordinary peaceful people. We have put new tools into use, new tools that help to stress, press and hunt the gangs, and we have even had three bodies tested that there is a legal basis to dissolve Loyal To Familia. When you create insecurity for innocent and innocent people on the street, you have to have the consequences to feel. We should never bow to the rotten morals of criminals. The gangs must be pressed, they must be stressed, and they must be hunted. The gang packages have been a good step on the road to combating the massive gang problems we have in Denmark, but unfortunately we are not yet in the finish line. The problems have not been solved, and in the Conservative People's Party we are ready to act to push the gangs into the defensive, and we actually hope that the government will join in this. It is a government that chose to create more security, and it requires action, not just words. That is why my call here today is: let us negotiate a new gang package; let us negotiate a gang package IV; let us test whether, on the basis of the verdict given by the Supreme Court, we can dissolve other criminal gang groups; let us ensure that the Danes can live in a free and secure Denmark without fear of the ravages of criminal gangs; let us get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110601	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110620	Shooting in the streets has become commonplace. The immigrant gangs have made sure that too many have become accustomed to it. Assaults and robberies committed against unspeakable citizens in nightlife and public transport can be read about in local newspapers on an almost daily basis. The big media are ignoring it. It is quite unacceptable that citizens of a free society should live in fear of the ravages of criminal gangs. We must do everything in our power to disband and disband gang groups. According to the police, the ban on LTF has made it harder for criminal gangs to recruit new members, but gang crime continues, and there is probably no one who believes that banning individual gangs can completely eliminate gang crime. We need to dig a shovel or two deeper. A census of convictions over a 2-year period shows that 94%. of the convicted gang members have an immigrant background. Consistent expulsion of foreigners convicted of gang crime could thin well the criminals who are causing the problems, and it would probably also have a deterrent effect on young people who might have a taste for engaging in the gangs. Unfortunately, however, there are also gang members with immigrant backgrounds who have acquired Danish citizenship and who therefore cannot easily be expelled. According to figures from the Ministry of Justice and Statistics of Denmark, it is one in four registered gang members in Denmark who are non-Western descendants of Danish citizenship, and this despite the fact that descendants with non-Western background and Danish citizenship are only barely 3%. It is an extreme over-representation. They make up 3%. of the population, but as much as 25 per cent. by the registered gang members. It's grotesque, but maybe it's not that weird. 15% of children growing up in immigrant families are brought up with violence, and the research shows that on average a 5-year-old child of non-western immigrants has developed less empathy, is worse at working together and has more difficulty expressing her feelings than a 3-year-old child of Danish parents. In far too many families with a non-Western background, violence is the most obvious and most often used means of conflict resolution, and violence in education is contagious on adulthood. That is why much more should be done than at present with parents who are violent against their children. The foreign parents who raise their children with violence and for a life carried by violence should not be in Denmark at all. Today we can expel foreigners from violent crime, even when domestic violence occurs, but it is all too rare for them to be expelled. This should be done consistently and after the first sentence. As long as violence is accepted as an ideology in Muslim homes, we will have to live with immigrant violence and with gang crimes. We are open to banning more gangs in New Citizens if this can have an effect, but if we are to have a real fight with gang crime and the raison d'être, immigration policy is the most important and the strongest tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422110949	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As far as I can see, all the rapporteurs who wanted to take part in the debate have been given the floor. I can therefore give the floor to the Minister for Justice. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422111011	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for a good debate, in which, moreover, we had a wide range of elements. Gang crime is an important issue, and there are also others who have said with a little emphasis: yes, yes, it is very good with the Loyal To Familia solution, but it can't be left alone. I agree with that. Of course, it cannot stand alone. There are parties that have pointed out that we should go more for the financial crime of the gangs and the economic tracks that may exist, in other words to break their economic chains. I agree with that. There are parties that have pointed out that we should make more of the prevention, for example. ensure that younger siblings are not also lured into the criminal environment. I agree with that. But we must also bear in mind that the judgment given by the Supreme Court, which is a historic judgment, is of importance to the possibilities of stress, to reduce and to come after the criminal gangs in Denmark, and therefore the judgment is important. It is on the basis of the verdict that we are now assessing what I said in relation to Mrs Britt Baker's question and hopefully before the summer recess we will finish the analysis of whether, when we look beyond the spectrum of bikers and gang organizations, there are some of them that we could hope to be banned if we started a new trial. If there is, it must of course be done. So thank you for a good debate. This is an important step. There are other steps to be taken. The gang packages that have been made, as has also been mentioned, are good. We are far from at the end of the road. It takes more, even on the gang package front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422111206	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no brief comments. Unfortunately, I cannot conjure up brief remarks, but I can give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of a final remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422111240	Thank you for a good debate. I think it is gratifying that we have now found that in this Parliament there is a majority in favour of a tough course towards the other criminal gangs who lie down after the LTF. We hope that the case decided here last year by the Supreme Court can be used as a breach to disband the other gangs and thus hit their visibility. So we're back at work, and we've been discussing this today too... that there are some criminals who, whether the gang is there or not, are criminals, and for that group there are some tools that we need today. The government would like to look into it. Some analysis has been made and some analysis needs to be done, but I would say that we are very impatient for something to happen. Because we see almost every day that there are crimes committed in Denmark, which are the imprints of the work of these gang criminals, and we have to deal with that. Our task in the Folketing is not to serve the criminals; it is to serve the citizens; the law-abiding citizens who fight every day for us to maintain our society democratically, westernly and in a way that we can work together and have cohesion, instead of society being dissolved because of crime. We are currently seeing Swedish trends, that is, the violent tendencies in Sweden and also in some of the major cities in Denmark, where there are criminals trying to make fun of society, making fun of the police, and they should not be allowed to do so. In the Danish People's Party, as I said, we are impatient, and I think that is also true of the Left and Conservative and New Civil and, as such, Social Democracy itself. Then we have some parties that do not bother to take part in today's debate. The Radicals should actually come up here and tell us why what the rest of us here believe in is incredibly bad. Fortunately, we then had Mrs Rosa Lund from the Enhedslisten, who, after all, brought some things that go the other way, one has to say, to say the least. I think Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt too had a little wool in her mouth compared to some of these things on behalf of the SF. I think we need a collection of those who really want to fight gang crime. If you are in agreement, you should get together as soon as possible and get the things that are going on out there in our society, because there are some gangs who, of course, are aware that now those foolish politicians have raised the level of punishment, and now they are trying to dissolve us, now they are trying to do so. And then you know that the gangs are trying something else, trying to go another way. Maybe you use knives now because there are high penalties for using guns. Perhaps the signal vapor is now used instead of firearms, yes, they may be able to shoot, but in a different way because there are high penalties for using firearms in gang conflicts. Then it is our job as politicians to say that all right, if that is the way they want to go, then the consequences will just have to be sharpened in that area too, so that we always make it impossible, difficult, hard, annoying to be a gang member. Whether you have one or the other hat on the LTF or Brothers or the NNV or Hells Angels • it doesn't matter. What this is all about is that they feel the breath of the police in the back of their necks, which I think the citizens expect from these gang members. As I said, we are impatient and are continuing, and I can already promise that there will be new initiatives, new debates, new consultations as long as we have not overcome this problem of criminal elements. I think the citizens expect us to be in the work clothes in here, at least we intend to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422111638	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. As no one else has asked to speak now, the debate is closed. I would point out that the vote on the three amendments tabled here will be taken on Tuesday, 26 April. Before we start the next item on the agenda, I would ask Members to return to the normal seats, because the question has now been closed. And then we proceed with the first reading of Bill L 156. However, as I said, just a moment's retreat to get back into the ordinary seats of Members.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422111743	The debate is open and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. It's sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422111803	The draft law we are now considering contains a number of legislative changes which are of importance to the courts. Firstly, the bill envisages amending the Code of Criminal Procedure so that it becomes apparent that the Supreme Court consists of 1 President and 17 other Supreme Court judges. This is, of course, already the case today with a total of 18 judges, but the Supreme Court has wanted the present system to be the one that is clearly stated in the law. Secondly, with the bill, it is proposed to amend the law on the Court of Justice, so that the board of the Court of Justice is extended by a court president. It is a change that comes at the request of the Court of Justice, which, on the basis of their experience, considers that it is an advantage to have an urban court president on the board of directors. Thirdly, the draft law contains a number of amendments to the deathbringing law. These are changes that are necessary for the new IT system of the courts, called the Shift Portal, to be set in motion. The proposed changes mean that, in future, when it comes to notifying claims for the right to change in cases involving the transfer of estates, it must be done digitally. This should make a complicated process easier for ordinary citizens. The new Shift Portal is, moreover, the first stage in the upcoming digitalisation of the whole shift area. All in all, three good proposals for amendments that concern the courts, and we can therefore support the draft law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422111928	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left. It's sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422111938	Thank you. The proposal we are examining now has been chewed through by my colleague, and I agree with it 100%. We're talking about extending the board of the Court's board to include a city court president. I don't think the Folketing will take that much apart. It is certainly a wish of those authorities there. And then there is the change to the death-change law, which means that you can report digitally. After all, this is the way forward and should also lead to more effective treatment. The Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112014	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party. This is Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112023	Thank you for the floor. My speech looks awfully much like that, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg held, so I don't think that's necessary to repeat it. So I would also just like to say that the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112037	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then I can give the floor to the radical rapporteur, Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112048	Thank you. I'm not gonna be the one who's gonna stall this either. Former colleagues have explained very well the content of this bill, and the Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112058	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112105	Which may add that the Conservative People's Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112110	Thank you very much. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is also in the Chamber and is ready to take the floor and perhaps express the position of the Danish People's Party on the first reading of draft law L 156. Welcome to sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112131	Thank you. There are elements in this proposal which are really sensible, some of them being such an expedition, because some of them have more or less entered into force in practice, at least with the Supreme Court, with regard to the judge's part. There are some other things that we are also positive about in this proposal. Where we can be a little skeptical, or where we should at least be sure that everything is in order, is in relation to the digitalization, that is, the digitization part, where we have to be aware that many older people are not able to move around in those a little intricate fora of which that world is made up. We must ensure that, if you are not digitalised, you can also receive a letter corresponding to the authorities, and then you must also be able to carry out the task of setting up a death estate in our society. And there we can also see in the hearing from the Elders Case that there is a problem in the draft law, and we will drill it further in the committee procedure so that we get everyone involved in the way we treat citizens in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112245	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112254	Thank you. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is, of course, a clear improvement on all aspects of existing legislation, and I shall not delay the debate except to say that New Citizens support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112306	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. I can give the floor to Mrs Rosa Lund, the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112320	Thank you. When we read this bill in Enhedslisten, we don't really see that there's something you can disagree with. When the law on the number of Supreme Court judges does not match the reality of the Supreme Court, it makes sense to update the legislation so that it is up to date. Similarly, it also makes sense to extend the board of the Court of Justice when they wish to do so themselves. I also think it makes sense that the right to change can have an IT system that actually fits into today's digital reality. I would also like to add that I look forward to negotiating the agreement on the economy of the courts. Like all the other rapporteurs, at least in the Committee on Finance and in the Committee on Legal Affairs, I have also had to deal with the many dossiers which have tried to patch up the huge dispute which is before the courts, and this is not a viable way of running one of the most important institutions in our society. If, at the same time, we have allocated much more resources to the police, as we in the Enhedslist agree, we must of course also assume that the legal burden will be even greater than it is now, and that is why we need a huge increase in funding so that we do not have to wait for years to get our case. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to call on the Minister of Justice to look at the funding already now, so that we do not have to come up with patchy solutions when we have to negotiate. After all, we have seen how the government can conjure 18 million. kr. I do not think we are close to the amount that has now been set aside for defence. Therefore, I would just like to make a call from here to the Minister for Justice to find the same magic trick for the courts' finances. The Enhedslisten supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112520	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund and the Enhedslisten. All the rapporteurs who have asked to speak on this matter have taken the floor and I can give the floor to the Minister for Justice. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112534	I think I will be able to make that brief. One question was raised by Mr. Peter Skaarup, whether someone is at risk of being dismissed, and it is actually the case that an exemption scheme has been envisaged in the draft law. If you cannot use the new switching portal with the help and guidance of the Shift Court, you will be exempted from using it, which means that the right to change will, for example, send an overview of the requirements notified on the portal directly to the contact person of the estate, and then the contact person does not have to go to the change portal. So that has been taken into account, but that is why there can of course be some sense in pursuing the issue further; I shall not be able to say that. Then I would just like to make one comment to Mrs Rosa Lund, who said that the defence should be added to 18 million. kr. That's 18 billion. kr., and that's a little more money than 18 million. kr., without me interfering in where Enhedslisten will put the defense budget. Otherwise, the debate will show that if everyone agrees with the government, things will be better immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112649	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. This has led to a few brief comments. The Minister of Justice Yes, I thought so). First, it's sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112657	It does not concern the amount of 18 million. kr. to the defense. I will sign for what the Minister of Justice said about estates of death, because we can read from one of the hearing answers from the Elders Case that you are very concerned about that, and we are also in the Danish People's Party. We think it is important that we constantly focus on improving digital solutions and making them more effective, but it is also clear that it is important that we, as a society, should not forget those citizens who can get into trouble; who have difficulty or are not able to use digital solutions at all. And sometimes for non-pensioners like some of us, it's also kind of creepy to figure out all these different crumbs that might be on these systems. That is why I hope that the government will have a full and complete solution that meets the Elders' concerns. That's all I think we can be familiar with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112751	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112753	Of course, I agree with that and, as I said, an exemption scheme is also envisaged in the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112801	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112806	As the Minister of Justice knows, I sometimes stand on the platform and say it, as I would like things to be, and maybe that was just the mistake that happened. We are, of course, well aware in the Enhedslisten that the national compromise amounts to billions, not millions. So that's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112827	The minister. No, not anyway. Then the next brief comment on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112834	I have a question in a slightly different ball street. I have been told that at the Police Administrative Centre a new system has been put in place in relation to weapons permits, and, to put it mildly, it is going really, really badly to issue those weapons permits. And unfortunately, the old system has been completely deleted, so right now you really do not have a system that can process anything. I just want to hear the Minister: is it thought into here that if this kind of digitisation doesn't work right from the start, then it won't contribute to cause accumulation? In other words, is there some sort of fallback solution, so that the same thing happens here as has happened at the Police Administrative Center?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422112925	However, it is absolutely right that there is a problem now in relation to the administrative centre and arms permits, which is why additional resources and extra attention have now been allocated to ensuring that the arms permits can be granted. After all, there is a buck hunt approaching, which means that suddenly, for other reasons as well, there is a great interest in whether the arms permits can be ready on time. I think we need to see this proposal so that we try to make sure from the start that the systems are going to work. However, if what Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt is asking is whether I can guarantee that the IT systems that have to support are ready on time and keep the price, I would say that I have no reason to believe that this should not be the case, but we have seen examples before that IT projects do not develop exactly as they were intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113015	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113019	You see very often that, unfortunately, IT projects do not develop quite as you would like them to. That's why I'm a little aware of whether a plan B is in mind in case things go wrong here. For the courts are just so hard pressed by cases in advance, and it would just be really hard for an IT system or more to help us get a further build-up of cases. So that's really just what I was fishing for, i.e. whether there's a plan B.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113045	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113049	We have no reason to believe that what is being proposed should not be an adequate solution, but it is clear that there is a need here too, of course, to follow along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113055	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113133	The debate is open and we are giving the floor first to the Socialist rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113143	Thank you, sir. President. Now we have to deal with a very important proposal, which is about the safety of the Danes. For Denmark must be a safe country, and it means quite low-practical that as a Dane, besides being safe in your home, you must also be able to walk on the street, take the train and go for a walk in the city to party without being insecure or to be afraid. Unfortunately, however, there are groups of people who do not want to play by the rules and would rather bother, intimidate and create insecurity in our public spaces, and they should not be allowed to do so. That is why the government presented the •A safer Denmark • which contains a lot of good initiatives to make a determined effort to get security back in Denmark. These are some of the initiatives proposed by the legislative proposal we are discussing here today. The first place in which the bill sets in is with a series of initiatives against insecurity in the nightlife, because in the last year we have seen some appalling cases of violence and assault on completely innocent festive young people, and of course we should not accept that. The proposal has been put together so that a number of new legal effects can be attached to the nightlife zones which the police are already able to designate. It is proposed to introduce a ban on the retail sale of alcohol in the nightlife zones from 9 a.m. 24:00 till 12:00. 5.00 that service places in nightlife zones must make use of an authorised doorman during the same period, that non-necessary driving is prohibited in the nightlife zones and that the police are better able to expel potential troublemakers from one or more nightlife zones for the rest of the evening and night. These are all good initiatives to ensure that the party in the streets does not run completely away with violence and the insecurity that can also follow. The draft law also opens up the possibility for private security companies to carry out watchkeeping activities at railway stations. We have seen incidents of people creating insecurity at S-train stations, and it is simply unacceptable that because of them you should be afraid to take the train at night or be afraid to walk alone at a S-train station. In order to ensure that young people are on the right track, the proposal also contains more preventive tools to take action against children and young people who are insecure. The draft law contains a new special condition on financial control in the criminal code, which is aimed at young people aged between 18 and 25, who are sentenced to a suspended sentence for certain types of unsafe crime. Finally, the proposal contains amendments designed to add insecurity-building behaviour as a condition which could lead to a parental order and a child and young leave, as well as to introduce a new obligation to act which could be included in the children's and young people's commission. As I said at the outset, this is a very, very important proposal. It is about creating security for the Danes and perhaps especially for our young people, who should be able to hang out in the city, on the streets and alleys, or take a walk out one night and enjoy themselves with their friends without having to fear violence and assault. The Social Democratic Party therefore naturally supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113510	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113516	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. We had a technical review of this bill the other day, and we did, because this is just a sloppy one. Eight points have been put together in one legislative proposal, and I would say that we in the Conservative People's Party are very, very concerned about creating security in nightlife. I actually believe that many other parties in this Parliament are, but we are also concerned that when we do legislative work we do it properly, and I just have to ask whether the rapporteur really means it when he says that this is a good and well-prepared proposal. Is this, in the eyes of the Social Democrats, a good and well-worked proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113605	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113607	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113609	Yeah, it actually shakes me a little bit. Eight things have been piled together and the rapporteur took part in the same technical review as we did in committee, and I have to say that we in the Conservative People's Party will do everything we can to ensure security in nightlife. But we will also do our utmost to ensure that when something is done in this Chamber, it is done properly, and I am quite shocked that the rapporteur is standing from the floor of the Parliament and saying that this is a well-worked piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113645	First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Britt Baker that I also find that both Mrs Britt Baker, as rapporteur and the Conservative People's Party, are concerned about the safety of the Danes and they are also working for it, and I am, of course, pleased that we can work together on this. I was also on the technical review, and I think it is quite fair that you as a party have questions about the legislation, and that is why I think we should also take the questions that might come into committee and discuss them there, and I think it is quite okay that we should have some comments on it. However, I welcome the fact that the Conservative People's Party, together with the government, will also work to ensure the safety of the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113723	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113728	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to ask, in relation to this proposal, whether the rapporteur is not afraid that we are going too far. Well, I'm thinking that in the night life, it's often some criminal elements or some troublemakers who are fighting or dealing with drugs and hashish, that's the problem, and not all the others who really just want a happy night in town. I really think that is where we should start if we are to take action. And you have to agree with that in the Danish People's Party. When I also want to ask you something more, it is because the Social Democratic Mayor of Aarhus, Jacob Bundsgaard, has made a proposal that we in the Danish People's Party think is good, namely in relation to giving those who acquire drugs in the night life a stain on the criminal record, so that you can see from the criminal record that there is a person here who must have the consequences for him that he is in this drug scene. And there I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the Social Democratic side of Christiansborg agrees with the Social Democratic Mayor of Aarhus.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113836	I think this particular proposal represents a balance in which we would like to strike at those who cannot figure out how to behave properly in the nightlife and where, as an authority, you should have the opportunity to say: you should not be here anymore tonight • now is the time for you to go home, and you are not allowed to come in anymore. We don't want people riding in big muscle cars harassing people who are just trying to have fun. That is one part of the balance sheet. The second part is the preventive aspect, which is about saying that there are also some of the young people who may be committing some stupidity in the city or are about to commit some stupidity that we would like to face before things go completely wrong and before they end up in much, much more serious forms of crime. And that is why, in reality, I think that this proposal strikes a balance in which we both take action in relation to something concrete, that is to say, some tools that we give to our authorities, and also with something preventative. And in relation to the proposal from the Mayor of Aarhus, it is not exactly a proposal that I am so familiar with. It is not that I am not going to answer it, but I am not quite keen on exactly what it is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113938	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422113941	When I say what I do about this generalization, it is, among other things. Because the Social Democratic Government has proposed that it be adopted and we hope that it will not be adopted. at the age of 17 no longer allowed to buy a beer in the farm. And now, with these zones, you want to ban young people, yes, it's not just them up to 18 years; it's really all in some specific zones that you buy alcohol at all. I'm a little nervous that we're gonna have a ban society like this. Now we have mentioned earlier today that we do not want gang crime, as in Sweden, which is much worse than in Denmark. We don't want a stronger ban on buying a beer one night in town either. In other words, bans can be found in some areas, but it can also be too violent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114030	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114033	That is why it is also one type of product that, at a very specific time, you cannot buy in some areas where there are real, very many young people and people who are drunk with alcohol and where we have experienced violence. That is what has been proposed, and that is why this is not a proposal to introduce it, as Mr. Peter Skaarup calls for Swedish states. It is not because we have an idea that we should create a new alcohol monopoly or something. This is just about saying that in areas where, unfortunately, there are an increasing number of incidents of violence and assault on young people, we also want to limit some of the things that do this: getting very, very drunk and buying alcohol.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114112	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114114	Thank you. The rapporteur says that this is a thorough legislative procedure. Does the rapporteur recognise that, when we talk about legal policy and legislation at all, there is an important balance between citizens' freedom and legal certainty on the one hand and the powers of the state on the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114141	After all, the legislative process is currently under way, and this is the first reading of this bill tabled by the government and supported by the Social Democrats. So we're dealing with this law now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114150	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114153	Of course, if I were to say the law, I meant the bill. The rapporteur says that the draft law does not imply anything sloppy, that the draft law here is good and well worked out. I asked: does the rapporteur recognise that there is an important balance between citizens' freedom and legal certainty on the one hand and the expression of power by the state on the other? And when I ask about it, it's because when you do something as sloppy as this, when you do something where we sit for a technical review that, to put it mildly, becomes embarrassing for the people who have to go through it, screaming to heaven that we haven't struck the right balance here. Does the rapporteur not see it at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114232	No, I can't, because I think we've hit the right balance. That is also what I explained when I said in my rapporteur's speech about the content of the proposal, because I think we are hitting the right balance. The reality is that we have a very big problem with the fact that over the past many years there have been some very, very violent attacks in the nightlife of young people that make it really, really insecure for many to walk in our nightlife. That is why the government, and the Social Democrats support it, wants us to provide our authorities with instruments as soon as possible that will give us more security on the streets and make it safer for our young people to go out. Then I look forward to having both today's debate, which we are in full swing with, but also the legal treatment of this bill. I can of course hear from Mrs Pernille Vermund that there are some things that the rapporteur has some doubts about. I can't wait to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114322	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114327	I can refer to Mrs Pernille Vermund's description of the technical review. I think most people from both the red and the blue blocks left the room confused on an even higher level. But it is obviously very important to get the proposal through before an election; it is a good electoral document. What would the rapporteur say about the delay in the date of entry into force so that we had a little more time to get through it? Because, as the rapporteur said, this is a very important proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114358	I think this is a very, very important proposal, and I have explained it several times now, and I do not share the view that we have not tried to answer the questions raised by the technical examination. It is therefore a little special to stand and talk about a course that has taken place in a closed room where those who had to sit and watch now have not been. But there is also the possibility of asking the questions and doubts that might be raised, and I know that has been done, and that is why it is also something that will be included in the future committee procedure that we are going to have on this proposal. What is my task now as rapporteur is to stand on the platform and explain why I think this is an important proposal. And I think it is important, because I think it is necessary for our authorities to have more tools to create security in the streets for our young people. The other questions relating to the entry into force I think we have to deal with in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114445	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114449	I have a very simple question. If this is so much of the Parliamentary Assembly, the debate here today will at least show that things are going too fast, because it is a very, very important proposal, as the rapporteur said, then I have to ask directly: what would the rapporteur say about postponing the date of entry into force so that we can really get the proposal through?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114511	What has been presented now is, of course, our proposal as to when it will come into force, and if there is another wish, then we will of course take the discussion where it is to be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114519	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114534	Thank you. The Socialist rapporteur has examined the proposal and he said at least three quite right things. First of all, he said that this is an important proposal, then that it is a very, very important proposal, and the third time that it is a very, very important proposal, and I could not agree more with the rapporteur. Therefore, it is deeply, deeply unsatisfactory that 300 seconds should be allocated to review 57 pages, including reviewing changes in five different legislations................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I mean, I'm sorry. It's like I've said before, like recording Wagner's Nibelungen's Ring on a single record. It is simply going to be a frivolous review and therefore we should not expect to receive the position of the Left on the individual issues. As the review on the other day showed, there are too many outstanding issues at the moment, so that we on the Left can express ourselves exactly as to what this results in. There are proposals, as my colleague said, for forced doorman; there are proposals to ban retail sales in nightlife zones; there are proposals for the expulsion of troublemakers; and there are proposals to ban unnecessary driving. Well, I can just say that already here yesterday, one of my colleagues informs me that in Vejle and in another town there is a nightlife zone that is cut through by a main roadway artery... that's how I understood it at least. How is it actually going to work with a ban on driving on such a road during the night hours? That's one of the things we need to look at. Looking at the fifth element, it's gonna go awfully wrong. The fifth element is, of course, that in a conditional sentence on young people, a condition must be attached that financial provisions over a legal limit must be approved by the supervisory authority, i.e. by the criminal service, a very good idea after the tack of Picasso, I must say. That is verbatim what is stated in section 57 of the Criminal Code today. And that's why I allow myself to call this an election document. You take and repeat what's already there. If there is anything that sounds good in the legislation, then we will take it straight and repeat it once more in order to ensure that citizens can have a clear impression of where we are in the area of legal policy. There are other elements in this too. There are guard patrols at railway stations; there are children's, young people's and so on. There are some of the proposals that I can clearly say we can accept. It's screaming to heaven. There are others we certainly need to work on before we finally take a position on that. I tried to get an answer from the Socialist rapporteur as to why things were actually urgent so that all parties walk out of a committee room and are very displeased over time that is available here. I still haven't been told why it's urgent, but my suspicion that we have an election document is not something I can quite get over now. So summa summarum on the left side: we are, of course, going into committee work. My colleague was quite right that this is a very important proposal. There is a change in the whole of legislation here, so it needs to be worked through, and there are several good things in the proposal, I can already say, but I do not want to stand here with as extremely short a time as we have had available to review it and characterise the individual positions of the Left on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114937	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422114943	Thank you for your speech to the rapporteur. I can start by saying that the reason why I think it is urgent is that I also thought I said from Parliament's platform that we need to provide our authorities with tools to create more security for the young people who move around in the nightlife. Now, in his speech, the rapporteur used an example from Vejle in connection with a question of a highway, and I would just like to say that if you read the legal material, you can, among other things, read it. See that it is, after all, some of the things that have been described and that are excluded, as was actually said in the technical review. So I'm thinking that it can also be • and it's fair enough that there are many doubts. Let us have them put forward and get them clarified, and then it may be that the rapporteur of the Left, when he gets answers to the questions, can see it in its entirety and maybe in fact also accept the things that are stated in the draft law. So I am just looking forward to the work of the committee, where we can sort out some of the misunderstandings that I understand there is also in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422115038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422115041	But here we are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422115043	There are no more brief comments. So we would like to thank the rapporteur and then move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422115058	This proposal, which is intended to deal with insecurity-building behaviour, must be said to be a major pile-up between a number of policy areas. There is both legal policy, social policy and even something of a health policy nature, and then something has to do with traffic. Many of the proposals have so much in common that they are aimed at nightlife, and I think the honest thing to say is that there is insecurity in nightlife, in different ways for men and women. We know, for example, that the most dangerous place for men to stay is in the nightlife. Here they run the risk of being subjected to violence by other men. Often drugs and alcohol are involved, and many may recall the case of Lauritz, who experienced being thrown out in front of a car and trampled in the head. Luckily, he survived. For women, the insecurity lies in the threat of abuse; ultimately, as in the case of Mia of Aalborg, who was killed in connection with a tour of the city. But I also believe that many women often experience a more general threat or insecurity in which they take their precautions to avoid being attacked. We saw this in connection with hashtagget text me when you get home, where a lot of women shared their experiences with insecurity. So there is insecurity, especially in the nightlife, and that is something we cannot avoid. Is the proposal here the right one to solve this problem? I can be more doubtful about that. There are elements that are good ideas, for example. that the police can shape a troublemaker's access to a nightlife zone for the rest of the night. It makes perfect sense that you don't just come back five minutes after you've been told to go away. In fact, I also think that there is some idea about the proposal to close off alcohol sales in the nightlife zones outside the bars between 8 a.m. 24:00-05:00. At least we know from research and experience in Germany that it has a dampening effect, and there I feel more like it: Well let's try to see if it works; let's put it in the lake and link some evaluation to it, so that we get some knowledge in a Danish context, because it's clear that if it's a tool that can work, it can make sense, but it's crucial for us that we also evaluate it. Then, of course, it also makes sense to demand doormen in the nightlife zones, but I think we might be able to link some more training to the doorman role. Among other things: I think it will increase the security of young people with minority backgrounds if they do not experience being shut out of the party at night clubs, as we often hear about. This type of discrimination also creates insecurity, just in a different way. So on the issues with which I have a challenge in the proposal. First of all, we in the SF are not enthusiastic about a youth and parental order. If we could demonstrate a good effect of that and we already have it in our legislation • then maybe we could be persuaded and help look at it, but it has never been properly evaluated, not in relation to the effects of the effect. So we're not going to expand it any more or stress it any more for no good reason to stand on. After all, I think that the municipalities are using the option very little today, and there is probably a reason for that, and it is that it is not so useful. At the same time, the proposal also says almost in black and white that it is already possible to make such instructions in advance, and it is certainly symbolic policy which is then the most appropriate term for such instructions. Moreover, I often find that parents of young people at risk of crime are struggling long enough with the municipalities to get the necessary help, and in the time that goes by, the problems are just getting bigger, and I believe that many municipalities are actually choosing the least intrusive speech, and this is a parental order in which parents may actually need more help for their children and young people and do not need any instructions, because they are already doing everything they can. So I also think that it seems out of proportion to the fact that criminal services should spend time on all conditional sentences in order to carry out financial control of the doomed's finances. Why wasn't this up in the criminal justice negotiations? Then we could have knitted a model together, so we targeted it against those who need it. At the same time, we could also link very effective debt advice to it and perhaps give the young offenders a course in keeping the economy, because I am actually convinced that many of them really need it, just as they could actually use a payment service scheme that everyone else has. They just typically can't get that when they have a bad economy, and then it's just really hard to control the economy you have. Furthermore, I find it difficult to see the coherence of the proposal between financial control and the insecurity-building behaviour and how one contributes to the reduction of the other. Finally, I should like to mention that I also think there is a shortage of the proposal. The poison line is experiencing an increasing number of people who are aiming to have been drugged in the nightlife. I find that worrying. I would really like to make an effort against this kind of thing, and if we sat down and discussed this, maybe we could do something about it. I think you should have the right to have a blood sample taken on suspicion so that you can prove that you have been exposed to it. In fact, I also believe that this should be part of the victimisation studies, but unfortunately the Minister has said no to it. I continue to believe that we need to know the extent, not only where drugsrape has taken place, but also in relation to all the other situations where people experience being drugged. So I think there is more to be done, but first of all I think we really need a thorough examination of this proposal in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I see legal security issues relating to some of the proposals, so we have quite a lot of questions for the bill here. We look forward to getting some answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422115702	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422115718	Thank you, President. Like my two previous colleagues, I would also like to agree that this is a very comprehensive legislative proposal in which we have to tamper with very different legislation. There is both something that can be addressed in the Criminal Code, the Guard Act, the Service Act, etc. And in the Radical Left, we have a number of questions about the various elements of this bill, which we will also be asking during the committee procedure, questions which we did not necessarily learn much more about during the technical review which has been mentioned here earlier. For example: one of the elements of a ban on the retail sale of alcohol in nightlife zones for a certain period of time is pointed out. Here we in the Radical Left can at least have a scepticism if there is then just outside that nightlife zone a 7-Eleven or a kiosk selling liquor. Do you not just have the insecurity that you would like to address? In the same way, there is also an element that wants to ban non-negotiable driving in nightlife zones, and that is where we have at least in the Radical Left to find out exactly how to handle it, because, as we understand it, we should not document what is necessary driving; and teach those who drive non-negotiable driving, so not very quickly to say that it is necessary when there is no requirement to document it. Parental instructions have also been mentioned as an element in the insecurity-building behaviour of young people and children, but we also have some questions about the precise definition of what unsafe behaviour is. This does not mean that we do not want the security for the Danes, the security for the citizens, who are in some way the headline and the desire for this bill, but if we are not quite keen on the initiatives and measures, we must also ask ourselves whether it will not be more of a symbolic nature, i.e. if it will not be a false security if we do not get it through too quickly. But, of course, there are also elements in the draft law that we are looking at more positively; for example. We think that this issue of authorized doormen can be very interesting to look at, especially in relation to people who today experience unjustified refusal to enter a nightclub and experience discrimination in nightlife. It might be some of the things you could address here. I should like to mention that yesterday the Committee on Legal Affairs sent a letter to the Minister for Justice with a desire to reduce the legislative proposal here and only to stick to the very urgent elements of the draft law. I am not going to stand by and say what the Radical Left thinks are the urgent elements, because they will certainly be the ones that we can politically support, but I think it is actually worth considering. I hope that the Minister for Justice will consider the request made by the Committee on Legal Affairs so that we can have a good and thorough legislative process with the urgent initiatives and then postpone the rest until the next session, where perhaps there is better time. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422120100	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. And then we go to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422120110	Thank you. The debate on insecurity, among other things: in the nightlife, started in earnest when the Prime Minister from this platform reported on how the insecurity in her optics was largely due to young men with dune jackets and gold watches. As I said when we dealt with the so-called security package in the first place, I fully recognise that there are many people in Denmark who experience insecurity. But I also think that, since we dealt with the security package last year, we must note that there is a great deal of insecurity which the government does not recognise and which the government does not take seriously. Because we know that there are a great many citizens with minority backgrounds who are subjected to hate crimes. Fortunately, we have now finally extended the provision of the criminal code, so that more hate crimes will be taken seriously and more citizens will be included in the paragraph on hate crimes. We also know that many minority citizens are actually up to 50%. This discrimination is based, among other things, on: places in discotheques and bars where doormen reject people solely on the basis of their skin color, gender identity or others for the occasion discovered reasons. When we dealt with the proposal to amend the catering legislation the other day, so that it could have consequences for the holders of the licence if they discriminated against those who tried to get into their care, the arguments were that it was too much of an intervention. It was not the Minister for Justice's arguments, it was the arguments of the Minister for Industry. We were told in this Chamber that much more and much more progress was needed before such legislation could be changed. So protection against the insecurity experienced by minority citizens could not be achieved in this way by the government. Now we are dealing here with a proposal which, as it were, goes in and affects the restaurants even more than the proposal that we dealt with in this Chamber on Tuesday, because now they are going to spend a great deal of money on shifts every day of the week, even though I find it hard to understand the need for an ordinary brown pub or restaurant to put a guard to 500 kroner. on an ordinary Monday night. Add to this that it is already possible to make this kind of requirement if the appropriation board considers it necessary. So it seems a bit like we are going over the mark here by imposing on so many companies the burden which the grant boards in the municipalities did not in the past think would make a difference. As several rapporteurs have also mentioned, we have had a technical review of this bill, which did not bring any more clarity, but rather merely brought more clarity about what this bill really wants and what the consequences will really be. In the Enhedslisten we voted against the security package last year because it simply did not seem to have any effect on security, just as it was a double penalty to make the zone ban that was introduced. As I said at the time, the police have ample opportunity to prohibit certain people from staying in certain places. With the legislative proposal we are now considering, the choice has been made to give the police even further powers, which, frankly, seem to lack fundamental legal certainty for the citizens. For how should the police explain to drunken people who have not broken the law that they are no longer allowed to stay, for example? in Gothersgade in Copenhagen that night. They are allowed to stay on the street not so far away, but if they go to the meat town, have they broken the order again or what? I mean, how do you even realize as a citizen of this country when you're doing something you can't do, follow this bill, and when you're doing something you can do? I think that all citizens are well aware that you must not strike and that you must not be drunk when driving and so on. That is why we in the Enhedslist are extremely sceptical about this proposal. We are, of course, looking forward to the committee reading, and I should not deny that there may be parts of this proposal that we will eventually be able to support, but as it stands now, the Enhedslisten cannot support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422120553	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422120556	Thank you for your speech to the rapporteur. I have always wondered about it when rapporteurs from the Enhedsliste go to the platform and say that we talk too much about ethnicity and foreigners, and then they start talking a lot about foreigners. Because no one is talking about ethnicity in this bill, but there is talk of creating security for the young people who are going out and who just want to have a good evening. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt himself referred to the example of Lauritz, who was beaten and thrown out in front of a car, and there are crazy, crazy incidents we are witnessing and where help is needed. The rapporteur himself said that there were doubts as to who could decide where to go, whether you could go in the meat town or in Gothersgade and something like that. What is proposed in the draft law is that it is always up to the police to assess it, because the police are the authorities with the expertise and experience of the streets, and I would just like to say that I hope that, when we get to the closer committee procedure, the Enhedslisten will go in constructively and help to ensure that we give our authorities better opportunities to provide security for the young people who go out of town. Because that's what this proposal is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422120708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422120710	Thank you. What we in the Enhedslist are preoccupied with, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, is how we create security for all young people who go out on a Friday night. We are very concerned about that. But part of creating security is knowing that you are not thrown out of line because you have the wrong skin color. And I just think it is paradoxical that we dealt with a proposal on Tuesday in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, which dealt precisely with what we were told was that we could not do anything about it, because it went too far with the restaurateurs, and here we have a legislative proposal in the Committee on Legal Affairs which actually goes further than the restaurateurs. So the point is, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg points out the Enhedslisten's maybe a little double approach, but what I'm pointing out is the government's. That's one thing. The second thing is that the question is how to know. The question isn't whether the police decide. The question is when, as a citizen, you know that the police in Copenhagen have created a nightlife zone, but they haven't done that at Strøget, or vice versa. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422120814	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg apostates. Then there are no more brief comments and we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422120831	Thank you for the floor. Safety in nightlife is very important, and it means a lot to all of us Danes, both for us as parents, that we do not live sleepless at night when our children are out in the nightlife, and of course also for the young people themselves. Security is an agenda that we Conservatives have been emphasising for many years, and that is why I was also genuinely happy when the government and even three ministers from the government in the municipal election campaign presented a security issue, and I had actually expected that it was a proposal that we would take a long time to negotiate, so that we would have the best possible result. All parties would be able to contribute to this initiative, and I believe that it would have done the result much better than what we have today. We're dealing with this bill, the criminal code, the guard code and the service code. There are eight things that have been piled together. I think there are a number of good things that I do think it is right that we should have trained our guards much better than they are today, and I also think it is right that there should be guards at the S train station. But there are also many things in this proposal that have not been worked through and where we have a number of questions. And we look forward to having those questions answered in committee, and when we have those answers, we will indicate where the Conservative People's Party stands on this specific proposal. However, I would like to stress that we share the Government's ambition for security in nightlife, but for us it is also important that there is thorough work in the legislative work we are doing in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422121034	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422121054	In the Danish People's Party, we have looked forward to the debate on this proposal because we believe that we all share the ambition here in the Danish Parliament to strengthen the fight against insecurity and also crime in the nightlife. The government then comes up with a number of proposals on various things and matters, and there is a ban on the retail sale of alcohol in nightlife zones during the night hours. You can always discuss whether that is the way forward. We really like the idea of hitting those who are the problem, i.e. those who commit crime or are involved in drugs, hashish, fighting, or whatever it may be. A ban on the sale of alcohol in the retail trade in such certain nightlife zones seems to me to be a serious question mark as to whether it will work at all. What then, just outside the zone, and is there a Netto or another supermarket where you can then buy the goods that you can then wander around with, if that is what is desired, and that is guaranteed for many young people. So the question is, does you really not just do something that might look very good, the government seems, but really just becomes nothing. That is why we may be able to talk about some kind of symbolic legislation, and perhaps the government has got a little taste for it with these bans during the coronated closures, where it was also the young people who suffered, because everything was closed, and there were various street parties, and then we were going to discuss it. But everything official in the night life was closed at the time. Now we are no longer in the hands of the pandemic, so maybe we should remind ourselves and each other that we are actually living in a free country, and if you are young, you are also free, perhaps to such an extent free, and as a young person you have a little taste for that in all possible ways and with good reason. On the other hand, it is a fine ambition elsewhere in the bill to demand authorized doormen in these nightlife zones, but the question is, of course, how authorized they are at the level of the government and should not have been implemented in terms of security. After all, some of us have been asking for that for many years, but changing governments have not really grasped it. But that does not change the fact that a good tool is missing to help the doormen make sure that they do not let in troublemakers who have been quarantined in the night life, and there you can ask whether a course of 9 days is something that can be used for something or whether you should go further than that. Then we in the Danish People's Party are also concerned that young people can get a stain on the criminal record if they are caught with drugs on them or are affected by drugs and hashish, because we need to get rid of these drugs in the night life, and there it can be a good tool. I do not have a position on that from the government, because this is not really part of this bill. The draft law then contains a new special condition on financial control in the criminal code, so that young people aged between 18 and 25, who are sentenced to a conditional sentence for certain types of unsafe crime, can be placed under a form of financial control and, in concrete terms, this will mean that the convicted person must have approved financial measures which exceed a limit of, for example, an amount of money. 10,000 kroner. Let me ask the President if my speaking time is running out. It has been very fast in that case. I have time left? That fg. President No, there's 1 minute and 10 seconds left. Jesus Christ, I have plenty of time, I think. The fact is that it is of course an interesting proposal on this subject with the convicted, but the question is whether this is not only possible in relation to digital payment methods. How can one control that the convicted person does not deal with drugs and gets paid in cash? I have often seen that, in order to avoid registration, this is the way it is done, and maybe in reality it can still be under the radar of the supervisory authorities. Then the bill also contains a proposal on rules that allow private security companies at train stations, and in relation to that part we are actually in favour of DF, because there is such a need for more security at our train stations. I would have liked to see it go even further and, more generally, opened up the possibility of using security and security personnel, and to a greater extent managed quality, because if you are to have confidence as a citizen that someone can help the police a little there, this public-private cooperation between police and security companies needs to be well managed. We think it is a pity that the government has for the time being at least dropped these security guards, because they could just help here, but it has been postponed indefinitely, as I understand it. Finally, there is the part about making a so-called parental, child and young post. We think that is sensible. In fact, it is only fair to require parents to have tasks there if they can help to turn the child's development away from some insecure crime. We also believe that it is important and reasonable that it can have consequences for child and young people's benefits if the demands made on parents are not met. So we have seen bad and cinnamon in this proposal, and we could actually have used longer speaking time to get around many of these things, and that is probably why the Committee on Legal Affairs has been a little sceptical about whether, at this stage in the legislative process, we can come up with such a proper lump of all sorts of things and things in and then get through in a reasonable way. But we will have a debate on that in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422121706	Thank you. Then I can say that there is apparently a technical error in the clocks, because the clock on the platform and the President's watch show something different. But it is the President who is in charge. We run it with accuracy. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we welcome the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422121725	The insecure behavior of nightlife is unacceptable. Young people who are harassed, subjected to violence or lose their lives because hordes of young people who are like jackals, all too often with immigrant backgrounds, are ravaged in cities. That's what we're gonna have to fight down. That is why I am in favour of the government tackling the problem, and there are some parts of the bill that we in the New Citizens' Party are in favour of. But that is also where my and New Citizens' positive words to the bill end, because the draft law we are discussing today is a collection of more or less effective and more or less ill-thought-out measures. As Mrs Britt Baker said earlier in the debate, it is simply a sloppy thing. You could go down in the individual paragraphs, but it will be a far too long speech in relation to what we have of speaking time here at our first reading, and I shall wait for that to be done in committee. Basically, the balance between citizens' freedom and legal certainty, on the one hand, and the powers of the State, on the other, risks being completely distorted if the law does not have a more thorough transposition. New citizens have a number of questions for the bill. These are everything from punishment for driving, which is, moreover, legal, punishment for the sale of alcohol from certain shops which are currently authorized to sell alcohol and which, of course, must be expected to suffer a loss, but which the proposal here does not replace for that loss, for measures with young people and parents' instructions, which to some extent already exist in the legislation, etc. We in the New Citizens' Party will wait to adopt a position on the final legislative proposal, which we also expect we may also look for splits until we have completed the committee procedure and have received answers to many of the questions raised by the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422121924	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. I don't see anyone from the Liberal Alliance or the Free Greens or the KD, and then we can give the floor to the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422121947	Thank you for your comments, which fell into basic two categories: something material and something procedural. But in reality, there is a foundation before we move into it, namely the question of whether we should accept the situation in our nightlife at the moment for young people. Should we accept a situation in which almost nine out of ten victims of violence during the night do not know the person who attacked them? Should we accept the situation that we have all been presented with Lauritz, who has been knocked down, thrown out on the road and injured? Should we accept that rocker-gang types run parade rides in cities in muscle cars at night as such a show of force? Is it the nightlife that we should send our young people out into young people who basically just want to return to a life where you can have fun, have fun, meet friends, do everything that belongs to a youth life? Are we to confuse the fact that there are some who stand next to them; some who do not want to; some who break the rules; some who intimidate; some who bother? Are they the ones who should be allowed to decide? If the answer to that is no, then you have to answer what it takes to bring security back. This isn't the full answer. More initiatives are needed. This is security package 2. I already work small with security package 3. It will contain further initiatives to ensure this. But these are initiatives that, if we look at material things, will help the security of our nightlife, will help the security of our young people. The nightlife zones will help the young people who just want to enjoy themselves. With their ban on parade driving, the nightlife zones will also be able to hit them, for example. drives pirattaxa and picks up a young girl somewhere in Aalborg. Should we get them? If we're gonna get them, this is where you're gonna be. After all, we have found that there have been people who cannot behave properly in the nightlife zones. That's where the police are gonna say, "Get out!" You're going home. You're not supposed to be here anymore. You need to get out of this zone. Well, it can be hard to see where it is. Yeah, there's so much it can be hard to see what is. It's on the website, and by the way, the police will advise people where it is that there are nightlife zones. It can be hard? No, it's not. Is the work complete here? It may well be that more can be done, even in relation to that guidance, but basically it is a right grip. The same applies to financial control of persons aged 18-25. The same applies, moreover, to the security company, which will then be possible at railway stations, supplemented by the fact that DSB will now be making real-time monitoring, which is important. DSB will be able to secure our S-train stations better. The young people who need to move there will be better guaranteed. If we want to, you have to say yes. The same is true of the parents' orders. After all, when we say on the one hand: You must not be here, you must get out, we are coming for you, that on the other hand we also take some of the grip that we expect to be able to help. There may be other elements that need to be included. I kind of agree with you when Mr. Peter Skaarup says: Should you not consider what the situation should be like if you have drugs in your nightlife? Or when Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt says: Should we not consider how to treat those who may be pouring drugs into beverages at night, I think there is certainly reason to do so. That's one of the scariest things you can imagine. It is particularly young girls who suffer. So there are plenty of things that we can bring too. What is then the criticism and I do not understand it; I have to say that I simply do not understand it: we cannot understand it. Yeah, you guys can figure that out. Sit down. Read the proposal! It's not harder than that. This is complex. This is extensive, but it can be dealt with on this side of the summer vacation. This is no different from other legislative processes. We put forward a proposal. We presented the idea in November. There's been a full hearing. There's full normal time. This is not an urgent legislative proposal. Under the Rules of Procedure which apply to all legislative proposals here in the Folketing, this is entirely within the framework. You have the time to read what you have to read. It's basically about, like when you read law: turn on the green reading lamp, sit on your... you can't say that in the hall, and read the papers. There are certainly issues that need to be clarified. Yes, questions have already come up; that is fair enough. That's fair enough, that has to be answered. As with all kinds of other legislative proposals, questions need to be answered. And there are also a lot of questions with which you can go in detail, with which I cannot answer on a stand-by basis. However, this does not differ from all sorts of other legislative processes that we have. There's a four-week hearing. A thorough consultation note has been sent over. Please note that most of the consultations are positive about this. I will be responsive to all the ideas that are coming. I am not saying here that the work was completed. On the contrary, I say that there will also be a safety package 3. There may be elements that need to be brought in. It may also be that there are elements for which it turns out that there is no majority. In this context, Mrs Pernille Vermund said that it might be necessary to divide up the bill. You know what my position is on splitting up legislative proposals. If it promotes the opportunity for individual parties to mark exactly where they stand, then I think that is an objective reason, and that is why I would be prepared to split up the bill if that is what it takes. Well, can't we just postpone it? Can we not just postpone it; we can just wait until autumn? Shouldn't we try to side with the victims here? Should we not try to say here: we in the Folketing can actually work and read and so on so that we can get some rules going so that the young people who go out there get the best possible security in the nightlife. Or should we say: No, we simply cannot manage to read up to June, where we will then have our 4 month summer vacation before we can then look at it again. Shouldn't we be on the side of the victims this time? So it's not just something we say, it's something we do in the way we work. Thank you for the many good comments. I am really looking forward to the continued consideration of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422122653	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's from Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422122700	Right now, I'm just standing here, freaking out that I'm a member of parliament, not a Minister of Justice, and I can take four months of summer vacation, because I haven't tried that yet as a member of parliament. But it must be nice to be able to stand up there looking forward to 4 months of summer vacation. In his speech, the Minister of Justice says: Should we really accept parade driving? Do we really have to accept young people who break the rules? I would like to ask the Minister for Justice: do we really have to accept that there are young people being drugged when they are in town in the nightlife? And if the Minister of Justice doesn't think we should accept it, why on earth isn't it in this proposal, where so many things are piled together?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422122744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422122747	Maybe it was tightening it up too. Sometimes there's a finch of the forehead. The four-month holiday was because I remembered the good old and unfortunately deceased MP Jan Trøjborg, who said that there are four good reasons to be a member of the Folketing, and they are called June, July, August and September. I'm kidding. It is not a holiday; it is a sitting-free period and it means that during that period the bill cannot be adopted. So that's my point. I totally agree that you are toiling and dragging, just as I do, over the summer holidays too. I also agree that we should not accept that young people are being drugged, and if we can get it in here, I think it is a good idea to include it. If we can't bring it in here, I think we should put it in the third safety package, which should follow on from this work. So I agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422122836	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422122838	Thank you. Then I would just like to make a request to the Minister, because if there is a third security package, it could be that the Minister should invite the parties to negotiations on it. Then it could actually be that we ended up with something better than the mess we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422122855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422122856	It's noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422122859	Thank you for that, and then it is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422122906	Thank you. It gets a little hypocritical and maybe a little hysterical when the minister stands up and makes it sound like the Folketing doesn't take this seriously. It is precisely because we take it seriously that we see all the gaps. It is precisely because we take seriously that there are young people who cannot go out and move freely that we say this is something sloppy. The Prime Minister said in her speech here on Parliament's platform, which Mrs Rosa Lund also mentioned, who this is about. She then came to say duvets instead expensive jackets, peace be with it, and gold chains etc. We all know who this is about. When we in New Citizens see this as something sloppy, it is because once again we risk hitting a lot of law-abiding citizens, but we do not grasp the root of the nettle. It does not say a word about what we all know, namely that all too often this is about immigrants or people with an immigrant background. Many of them also have foreign citizenship and commit crime, including in the nightlife, too many of them are allowed to stay in the country, even if, for example, they are allowed to stay in the country. Convicted for rape. Can the Minister not see that this is simply too inadequate?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123027	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123028	No. And I would like to say that if I have come to say that the members and parties of the Folketing do not take it seriously, that is not what I mean. I certainly think you take it seriously. Well, I actually think that you take the insecurity of nightlife seriously, and if you do that, and that's what I was trying to say at the beginning of the day... that's the foundation on which we stand... then I think you have to resort to the tools that you can find relevant. I come here and say that there are a number of tools here that I think are relevant to creating security in the nightlife again, and then I think I have also tried to say that it is not the case that the work is complete, the stone tablets carried down and all that. It is about the fact that there are some proposals here that will help us get back the security of nightlife, and there must also be, as I have said, a third safety package. But I just don't think this is a piece of shit.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123123	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123124	However, if the Minister for Justice has a similar understanding of what the problems are also about, as the Prime Minister does, then I think the Minister for Justice owes it to follow up on what we agreed in the police agreement, namely to ensure that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration follows up with more expulsions of criminal foreigners. For this is also about immigration policy, it is about immigrants, especially with a background in the Middle East, in the countries that the government itself calls the MENAPT countries. Some of them are Danish citizens, and it is of no use that they are just told that now they have to go home to bed, and then they can come back the next day. It's no use. If it is foreign citizens who commit crime that make life insecure for the young Danes, they should not be here. Let's get them out of here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123215	But there are a number of the elements that we are talking about here, which are among other things. addresses what is being mentioned now. For example: After all, with the S-train stations and the possibility of security control at our railway stations, this will help address some of these problems, and real-time surveillance will help address them. To put it bluntly: since it is not my resort, I do not know what the status is on the second part, namely the issue of expulsion. If there is a backlog there, of course it needs to be made up. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123249	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123253	When we had the technical review the other day, there were more of us who had ideas about what else could come into the bill. That is why I would just like to know whether the Minister will consider convening negotiations. I think that when this thing goes so wrong somewhere, it's because we haven't been around the process and in the series of thoughts about it. And there are, what can be said, proposals which extend over four policy areas, as I can see from the outset: something about health, something about justice policy, something about traffic legislation and something about social policy. So I do not think it is quite right when people are complaining a little bit about the fact that this is actually a complex legislative proposal, about which it is hard to say anything meaningful in a very, very short debate in this Chamber. So could the Minister consider inviting us over so that we could find out if there is anything we can agree on here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123357	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123359	Well, it is true that you can see it as going across different areas. It is because you can choose to sit up and look at it from the point of view of the authorities and ask which authorities this affects, but you can also choose to look at it from the citizen's point of view and ask who it is that we should protect. We must protect some young people who go through the night, and should we then allow ourselves to be restricted by what areas of authority are involved, or should we address the problems that exist? And it says here that we are addressing the problems that exist, namely trying to deal with insecurity in the nightlife. I heard and it was to some extent the same thing, Britt Baker said it might have been better if it had been in negotiations. It may well be relevant that the third security package is on the table. I have also recently opened the door to the fact that, if there are other elements that it would be appropriate to take into account here, then I think we can talk about this in connection with the discussion of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123450	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123454	That sounds good, because I think there are several of us who have elements that we would like to bring with us. And now that the Minister has confirmed to Mrs Britt Baker that we may have a paragraph in relation to drugging, if that is possible, I would like to know whether the Minister will reconsider his refusal to include drugging in the victim exposure studies. I know that people are already asking questions about drugsrape, but the problem is actually broader, because it is not always the case that it leads to a real rape. The poison line has seen a marked increase in the number of people who turn to an experience of having been drugged in the nightlife, so I actually think there is a need to get it mapped out more closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123541	I basically agree with that. In fact, I do not know whether the problem is increasing or decreasing. I know that there is a problem, but how it develops, I do not know, and that could be an argument for trying to look into it a little more thoroughly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123559	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123602	I now have 59 seconds to make my point. Before, there was only seven seconds. Thank you for one, I think, very committed ending of the debate by the Minister for Justice. It bears a little mark that that clock, in relation to when there was a parliamentary election, and when there should be again, ticks quite strongly in the direction that it will soon be. There was really a great deal of self-esteem and, in fact, an increase for us members of parliament who have four months of summer holidays and can therefore get into work clothes. You can have your opinions about that. But I will turn to one point. When you do something like this, which has some good intentions... I can tell from the Attorney General that it should have, and that's what it is... don't you have to be careful not to shoot gray sparrows with guns? I am thinking of this alcohol part, where the government shuts down the opportunity for young people to get alcohol under corona, and then it is said that, by the way, you cannot buy a beer at a store when you are 17 years old. That is the latest proposal from the Minister for Health. And now we are told that after nightfall there will now be some zones where young and old people cannot buy alcohol either, and which can be dealt with in all kinds of ways. Are there proportions in this, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123734	I think it should be seen in the hurry that there is, after all, a ban on the sale of alcohol within the zones during the period from 1 p.m. to 1 p.m. Twenty-four to eight o'clock. 5 in the morning stands on some concrete experience that otherwise there have been kiosks or other things where young people have gone in and bought alcohol and then have pulled the party out on the street right out front. That's what this is all about. So it is basically a little the same as the other, namely to try to create a secure framework. It's kind of the same with the doormen, who also have to be there between 1:00 a.m. 24:00 and 4:00 p.m. 5. It is the idea that it does not matter that there is an adult present. It doesn't matter that we're in a place where the party takes place within a framework where everyone can be comfortable being there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123831	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123833	Well, I can easily understand the arguments. I do not think anyone would want people to drink in the fence on a Friday night or Saturday night, if that is the case, because it can lead to some unfortunate consequences. There's just a lot of people who can control it. Fortunately, there are a lot of people who can manage to have a few beers without going wrong for them. And there is what I think the government is shooting at, because, like everyone here, you hit with something instead of completely targeted hitting those who cause the trouble, for example. Those who sell drugs or those who sell hashish or consume drugs, because there it can be hard to control. That is where I think perhaps the government, when it wants to think and listen to us in here, should consider whether it is a place to drop a little below the level of ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123927	But to go after who exactly is the cause of the trouble, we have among other things. This proposal for expulsion from the nightlife zones, which says that if there is a danger to public order, the police can say: you have to go home now. I don't want you in this area anymore, which we're gonna guide you on where is, and if you come back again, you're gonna be in danger of being fined. So I think that there are plenty of initiatives where it is targeted to the extent that it is requested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123950	Then it's Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422123952	Thank you. It was an extremely interesting speech made by the Minister, and it was also the presentation of it where the Minister made his vote a little. Usually when a colleague goes up and gives such a speech, it is because it needs to be used for a cut on social media. I'm not exactly familiar with the minister as someone who's very active on social media, but it may be that this clip is going to be posted. We'll see. What I want to say is that the Minister makes it sound as if, when I was in the Chair and addressed this letter from the Committee on Legal Affairs to the Minister about whether or not to slow down here, it was the expression of a single lazy rapporteur who could not sit down on his • what should not be said in the Parliamentary Chamber and read a bill. It is the whole Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights that has sent this letter to the Minister because we have a sincere interest in getting to the bottom of it and resolving the problems which the Minister is and has an interest in resolving, and which we others also want to solve, not just in a symbolic way, but in a proper and good way, so that we can give the young people the very security they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124100	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124101	I can say with complete certainty that my performance here has nothing to do with social media. It's a place where I don't come very much. What I was trying to say was that this legislation follows the ordinary procedural rules. As regards consultation, the time between first, second and third readings, it is possible for the committee to deal with everything that normally goes with it. There's nothing extraordinary here. These are the rules that the Folketing has adopted. When we have to adopt legislation here, we have to have this opportunity to work. That's what's here. That is why I am just saying in all tranquillity: let us now get to work, let us make sure that this is legislation that comes into place so that it can be beneficial for security in nightlife.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124157	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124159	So it has nothing to do with social media, but probably something with a sincere interest in solving a problem. That's what I'm supposed to be talking about. The Minister mentions, for example: This parade drive into the nightlife zones you'd like to end with. However, the ban against the non-negotiable driving, as I understand it, and as it emerged from the technical review, should not prove that you drive necessary driving if you are stopped. So what weighs the heaviest? Is it that a citizen says: it is necessary driving, but I cannot document it and will not prove it by the way? Or is it the police's understanding of what parade driving, for example. Could be? What's the heaviest thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124249	But as they know so much else, our police operate, and they are trained to do so, in a context in which they assess the specific situation: why are you here and what is going on here? After all, it is the police who assess whether there is no need for driving. There you can put emphasis on various elements. I'm quite comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124312	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124315	There is such a strange suspicion in this Chamber that we are approaching a parliamentary election. Then it is the Minister's appearance on the platform, then it is the speed of the proposal, and then it is the design of the proposal. I'd like to add another indicator to that theory. We have a provision in the Code of Procedure today in Section 57 which says that if someone gets a conditional judgment, then of course the judge can make it conditional on different things, but one can also make it conditional on the convicted one complying with the supervisory provisions on limitations in the availability of income and assets and on the fulfilment of financial obligations. That's what it says today in section 57, no. 7. It is, in fact, identical to what is stated in this proposal. It is then called 57a... that one must comply with the conditions laid down by the court in order to obtain the approval of financial transactions by the supervisory authority, etc. Is it, then, like signalling something, or what is the difference between applicable law and what is introduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124426	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124427	First of all to the question we have now revolved around sometimes: is it the case that we are approaching a parliamentary election? Yes, it is. Every day, after the election of the Parliament, we are approaching the next parliamentary elections. Is this proposal made because elections are due to be held in a few minutes? To that I can say with certainty that I have no idea when the Prime Minister intends to issue a parliamentary election. I think the Prime Minister himself knows that. It is certainly not information that she shares with me, and it is probably very good that this is the case. So to the specific content of the question: can we not, in reality, intervene with financial control, even as it is today, in the face of those 18-25 years of age who are being sentenced to certain forms of financial crime? Actually, I think you could. But is it happening? No, it doesn't, and that's why this might be asked if it's the right way to do it... more of a question of saying it's a tool that we'd like to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124534	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen? Apostates. Then there are no more brief comments. So we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124556	The debate is open. We are giving the floor to the Socialists' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124620	Thank you for that, President. A few months ago I met the mother of the two young women who were murdered by terrorists while she was on vacation with her friend in Morocco. Her story, which most of you know, is heartbreaking, and no one can doubt that she has experienced the indescribably worst that can be experienced as a parent. But not only that, she must live with the loss of her daughter; she must also live with the fact that pictures and videos of the abominable atrocity that struck her innocent daughter are shared over and over again online and are also sent directly to her and her family as a form of carried out ill harassment. And we must recognise that it is part of the terrorist attacks we have seen that they are being recorded and put into cyberspace. There they flourish so and can be grown and shared and in fact serve as inspiration for other derailed individuals. This is not something we can just solve here in Denmark. Terror poses a threat to our security and democracy across borders, and this requires international cooperation. That is why a regulation has been adopted in the European Union on dealing with the spread of terrorist content online, also known as the TCO Regulation. It is precisely intended to combat the spread of terrorist content on the Internet. The regulation lays down, inter alia: demand that Member States remove terrorist-related content within one hour, and this is, after all, a very short period of time, but it reflects how important it is for this type of extremely harmful content to be removed immediately so that it does as little harm as possible. The TCO regulation is directly applicable in Denmark, but it is necessary to supplement the regulation with some Danish rules of a more technical nature, which we then deal with in the draft law here today. Firstly, the National Police Department is designated as the national authority in Denmark to carry out the tasks arising from the regulation. This means, among other things, that it will be the National Police to issue orders for the removal of terrorist content on the Internet to hosting service providers. Secondly, the National Police will have to inform Danish hosting service providers of the legal effect of the injunction by the competent authorities of other Member States. In this way, it is ensured that the rules of the regulation can be complied with within the framework of Danish law, where we among other things. has an unwritten constitutional ban not to allow authority to be delegated to other countries. Thirdly, the draft law aims to lay down rules on penalties for infringements of a number of criminal law provisions of the TCO Regulation. Terror is a terrible crime which must be combated with everything we have in the drawer. This also applies on the Internet. The TCO regulation is a good tool and the legislative proposal today is therefore important. We can therefore support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124928	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422124943	Thank you. I'm just saying, here we are again. The proposal was tabled in the Folketing on Tuesday and is being discussed on Friday. This is not quite easy to understand, so I have to speak again with the reservation that I can be so much wiser in the discussion of the proposal. There is no doubt, as my Socialist colleague said, that these are things that need to be tackled in the face of the situation. We have an EU regulation that tells us how to deal with terrorist content, but it lacks the implementing measures that need to be established in Danish legislation so that it can now be implemented there. According to the proposal, the National Police will be the authority to ensure that the orders to be issued are now also issued. They are the ones who have to inform the hosting providers who are involved in this, and finally, of course, it is also the National Police who are responsible for the fines. The regulation itself is very good, but as a preliminary remark on our part I should not fail to note that it presents some challenges in relation to the constitution when other countries' authorities can dictate how the Danish police should act here. In any case, this is something we need to look into. I note that the orders of the National Police are not made after the traditional hearing of the parties; they must not comply with the requirements of the justifications which are otherwise, and, moreover, as far as I can see, they are not the subject of the traditional appeal. So I would probably have liked somewhere else to see this scheme become like the one we have for example for blocking websites in § 791 d, after which you catch up with a warrant before you go out and block, but at the same time it has to be the case that you can act on the purpose and, as my colleague said, no one should be exposed to what we just described for many seconds. So I am fully in favour of the police being able to act, but we need to look into whether legal certainty can also be built against the hosting providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422125216	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422125229	There is no doubt that when it comes to terrorist-related content, it simply has nothing to do with the large Internet and that it must of course be removed, and of course Denmark must also contribute to that, and I have also had meetings with Helle, who is the mother of the killed Louisa who was killed in Morocco and who is really plagued by terrorist-related material that deals with her daughter. That is why I can easily see the need to do something more here, and we also have two proposals in the SF which will actually help the victims of terrorism, among others. with compensation, but also with some more rights, and we look forward to dealing with that. But I think my considerations are a little along the same lines as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen also said that there has been a very short time to read this, and that there seem to be some legal problems which I have at least not been fully dealt with yet and which I therefore also need to dive a little further into. It is clear that Denmark should at least I see that the Institute for Human Rights has a criticism which I do not really think is entirely unimportant, both in relation to whether the National Police should now be the competent authority, and whether it is now separated enough, and in relation to the question of court orders in connection with blocking websites it may seem like a very obvious offer, but we can of course put on a round in committee. But it has certainly not been possible for me, by the time we have had so far, to have complete clarity on all the elements of this proposal, and that is why we are working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422125430	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422125438	Thank you. After all, this bill intends to bring Danish law into line with the EU regulation on the dissemination of terrorist-related content, and when I look through the consultation answers, I fall down among other things. of the hearing of the Institute for Human Rights. And I would like to hear and it may be that the Minister will address it in his speech on the two points raised by the Institute for Human Rights, namely whether the National Police is now also the right body and is independent enough to carry out this task, but of course, if you should not have a requirement that the National Police or whatever body it is now be, prior to an order, obtain a court order. I would like to hear the Minister's reflection on this, because it is at least something that we in Radicals think is quite important. Then we are really looking forward to the committee's reading and will, in the course of the committee's reading, express the views of the Radical Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422125548	Thank you. And we need to clarify whether the Minister for Justice has been in favour of a comment now or whether it is a technical accident. It is a technical accident and then we can see that no one has comments on short remarks and we thank the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422125611	Thank you. Whether it is a good idea that Denmark is about to shut down websites and the like within an hour, from a command from another country, without any national ordeal, we could actually discuss for a very long time whether it is okay. Somehow, it doesn't matter a bit about this bill because it makes some minor changes to some rules that already have direct effect in Denmark. I hope that no one has lost sight of the fact that in the Enhedslisten we have a slightly more sceptical relationship with the surrender of sovereignty than so many other parties in this Parliament have, and perhaps the government in particular, but I think it is now a very good example of a regulation which obliges us as a nation to make quite violent interventions in freedom of expression, in which we risk that innocent people will suffer. I may have confidence in the judgement of the German courts, and perhaps I also have confidence in the Dutch and Belgian communities, i.e. the communities of law, which are similar to the Danish one, but I do not really have confidence in Hungary's courts, for example. Now, with this bill, we will have a legal situation in which a decision by Hungary's more or less corrupt courts will have a direct consequence in Denmark within an hour. I do not think this is the best situation for legal certainty. So I think we should stick to the Danish rules we already have, where there should always be a court order and a court order. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal. We don't think per. automatically that you have to implement the more or less bad ideas that come from elsewhere. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422125813	Thank you. There are no brief comments. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we are going to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422125821	Thank you. I guess I'm leaning pretty much on what has been said here in the past. There is no doubt that this is serious, nor is there any doubt that we need to find a solution to the terrible thing that is going on on the Internet. Having said that, however, it is quite a big step forward that we are taking with this proposal in relation to the surrender of sovereignty. The proposal was tabled on Tuesday and I have to say quite frankly that I need to put a number of questions in committee before I can say whether the Conservative People's Party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422125903	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422125918	As other rapporteurs have also said, it may well be that we just need to chew it through a little more. There has been a relatively short time since it was delivered to us as tabled and until we have to deal with it first today. However, if you look at it, at least in general terms, it is a proposal that deals with a socially extremely important problem, namely that terrorists abuse the Internet to train and recruit supporters and prepare and promote terrorist activities. It is used actively and, of course, you glorify your own atrocities and encourage others to follow suit and create fear among the general population. And that is also something our intelligence services spend a lot of time on, probably more and more time. For example, the Cyber Security Centre should be set up. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). So there's plenty of good music and real sensible intentions in this. And we also agree in the Danish People's Party that abuse of the Internet really only underlines that social media and other Internet platforms have a special social responsibility for dealing with terrorist content and other crime that threatens society as a whole • there can be no doubt about that. And there it is, like with other media... we just forgot about social media, so I think you have to run social media. These are some global platforms that earn an incredible amount on some very, very small marginals; they can easily do so because they are worldwide. They need to be controlled; we do not do that well enough, and there is this evidence that you are trying to find things that can do that. Then we were told, when there was a referendum on the reservation of law, that we could do nothing now if we did not abolish that reservation, not even in relation to terrorism and trafficking in human beings and child pornography and everything else. But we can nevertheless do a little here, it has to be said today, so quite badly it was perhaps not that the Danes really allowed common sense to prevail and then wanted to retain power over justice policy and immigration policy • and perhaps also soon try to retain power over defence policy, unless the government succeeds in also removing the reservation that the Social Democratic Party would have with the reservation that we voted on earlier. Well, that's another story, but when I read through the bill, I was a little tempted to listen back to the arguments that were about the reservation vote, and they were really violent.Those were awful times we would experience if we didn't abolish the reservation, but a little we can still implement politically after all. The content is, in fact, three things. Firstly, the purpose is to designate a national competent authority to issue an injunction to remove terrorist-related content on the Internet. Secondly, the draft law provides for the administration of the regime for dealing with terrorist-related content by the National Police. Thirdly, we need to lay down rules on penalties for infringements of a number of these rules. We in the Danish People's Party actually think that makes sense. You can always discuss the level of punishment and whether the penalty is high enough. We will probably drill into that during the committee procedure, because we must take it seriously when the Islamic State or ISIL, or whatever they call themselves, comes forward with propaganda for a terrorist attack they have carried out or one they will carry out and where they are trying to get others to do so. So, overall, we support intensive counter-terrorism and, all in all, we can also support this bill. And then there may be some things in committee that we will have to ask a little more about here in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422130327	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422130339	Thank you. As several rapporteurs have said, we are today discussing a legislative proposal which, to put it mildly, is technically complex. It is complex because it deals with one area, namely our legal policy, which we have reservations about. I took the liberty of asking the Minister for Justice, just before I took the floor, how it can be done that there is a demand from the European Union to Denmark within something that seems to be a legal policy. We are at least discussing it in the Legal Affairs Committee and with the Minister for Justice in Denmark. It may be somewhere else in the European Union, and that is why it is. Both the Minister and I have some doubts about this, which is why I think there must be others who have doubts about it. That's the basics of this. So, can you make a claim to Denmark, and do you make it yes or no? And if you make a demand, we are forced to submit to it. Then how do we implement it? Is it the National Police, which is being proposed here, that should be both the authority that makes the bans and handles the tasks and also subsequently administers them in relation to the hosting services, or is it another authority that has to deal with these tasks? I think there are a number of unanswered questions which concern both legal certainty for the hosting companies and for the Danes who may avail themselves of it. I agree that the annex from the European Union says something about all the considerations about what it is like if you use it for educational purposes, etc. This has been taken into account to some extent, but have all the areas where you could imagine this type of terrorist-related content being shared and bored out that it does not mean that we criminalise ordinary law-abiding citizens? I know that a number of Danes shared it, not because they were trying to back the terror, not because they sympathized with the terrorists, but because the authorities in Morocco said that these two young women had been killed and, as I remember, there was something about a stab in their throats or a phrase in that direction. It turned out it was far, far worse. I just have to say that when we talk about states where you cannot always be confident that the media and the authorities give a true picture of what has happened, that is what is happening. When you find that it is far, far worse than what the authorities in Morocco and the media said, there are people who start to wonder, share the material and say: there is something that is not right here. Does that mean it's okay to share it? I'm not going to judge that. I should just like to say that I know that many of them shared this during the period which did so precisely for the reason that it was misinformed by the Moroccan authorities and that there was some indication that the Moroccan authorities were not interested in the fact that it came out that this was terrorism. After all, if this had been the case at that time, these people would have been judged quite harshly and probably also regarded as people who were trying to do something about terrorists, which is exactly the opposite of what they were doing. So there is no doubt that we, a united Parliament, want to put an end to terrorism, want to make it harder for people in these terrorist organisations to recruit new, typically young, radicalised members. Having said that, I also think that we should be cautious about what we are using and on whom we are giving the authority to enforce and administer the legislation that we are introducing and what are the legal conditions for those that this legislation might affect. So, with those words, I would say that we also have a number of questions in committee and that we will take it from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422130813	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is now the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422130827	Thank you for your comments. I'll try to grab some of them. So, basically, this is an EU regulation, a regulation contained in an EU regulation, and that means that it is directly applicable in Denmark, what is, if I may say so, the regulation that is, what is going to happen and so on. There are then three elements that we specifically regulate. Moreover, I was given the opportunity to ask, so that I can reply to Pernille Vermund now, that the regulation was adopted on the basis of Article 114, which deals with the free market, and that is why Denmark is bound by the regulation in its place. But there are then three elements which are really what one has to deal with or which are what the Folketing has to deal with in relation to legislation. One is this and the addressed Mrs. Samira Nawa also with the National Police as authority. We have to deal with which Danish authority is going to deal with this. When the legislative presentation and the proposal are the National Police, it is because there is experience that similar administrative tasks are handled there and there is knowledge in the field of terrorism. At the same time, of course, this information can be done in close cooperation with PET, and that is why the National Police have been elected as authority. The second element is that which Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen addressed something that is also delicate, namely what we do with the unwritten constitutional ban. It is the case that the unwritten prohibition of the constitution has been taken so little after memory that no one other than the Danish authorities may exercise authority on Danish territory. There is, of course, a problem if you now have an authority in another area which says that there is some terrorist-related content here that needs to be tampered with from a website in Denmark. That authority will then be able to say with the regulation: pull it down. And that means that you have a situation where there is an authority in another country that exercises authority in Denmark. We should find a way to deal with that so that we could see ourselves in it, and it has become this construction that the authority tells the National Police, which then makes the decision or makes the decision that it must be removed. By the way, it was because now I see that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen has also been present in the Chamber, something that we, under the auspices of the European Committee of the Regions, actually discussed quite thoroughly. As I remember, I was also in consultation on this very question. So this is an issue that we have been very concerned about. So that's the other element that we've been trying to solve this way. The third element we have to deal with is something that Mr. Peter Skaarup mentioned how we punish those who violate this. It is also a national regulation. So that's what's here. Now, unfortunately, Mrs Rosa Lund has left, but she indicated that she would be against this, and one may well be against the Danish regulation, and one may of course also be against implementing regulations, but then it probably requires as a stepping stone on the way there that one is also opposed to membership of the European Union as such. Otherwise, it is at least difficult to see how one should stand next to the legal system. So that's what's in the bill. I fully understand that there is a need to answer technical questions, because it is complex that it bears witness to the treatment of the Parliamentary Committee on Europe and, of course, we must ensure that this is done in the course of the treatment that is due to take place now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422131203	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti
ParlaMint-DK_20220422131207	I cannot help asking the Minister for Justice and thanking him for his comments on this matter. Is the Minister regretting that very hard campaign, which the Social Democrats also carried out against the rest of us when we were discussing the reservation of law, because it was said that we could not fight terrorism, that we could not fight child pornography, that we could not combat trafficking in human beings if we did not abolish the reservation of law? Now we can see today, and here is an example in which we can actually do some things together without having abolished the legal reservation today. Isn't that right, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422131241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422131245	Yes, but in reality that is the great thing about being those who sit in government and bear the responsibility, namely that when we lost the vote, we might as well not have done anything and say: then the consequences must befall us. But what we have tried, and which we have fought for with our beaks and claws, is to ensure that Denmark's positions are as good as possible, i.e. the intergovernmental try to join, try to get in, try to make it work. And it works. Is this gonna keep working? Well, we can see that it's starting to erode. There are such different elements that we just as quietly smoke outside and cannot be part of. But is it Sodom and Gomorrah? No, it's not. We have every year, and I invite Mr. Peter Skaarup to take part in an account of the development of our legal reservation, and what the consequences are, here in the Chamber, where we sort of review what the status is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422131344	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422131348	I really think it is very good that it was made clear that we are doing what we can to make it work so that is what the government is saying. The rest of us, I think, are right to say that it was possible to do so, but there were some parties who, when we voted on that reservation, said that it was not possible to do so. It was not possible to make a parallel agreement that could implement the things we wanted to do now, for example. In relation to trafficking in human beings and terrorism; but it could, we can see today and the Minister here confirms that. After all, this proposal is not about the part it is really about the internal market. But we can still fight these things together today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422131426	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422131429	In any case, it is a fresh conclusion to say that we have here a proposal which has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422131445	Then there will be no further brief comments, and we will thank the Minister for Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft law be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422131528	The debate is open. The Minister for Children and Education. You may have made an appointment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422131548	Thank you. We were kind of in a nice conversation out back. That is what the viewers never see, but we are having a good time between matters, so we were certainly here and are ready to embark on the resolutions now before us, and the first of them is about a pool of equipment for vocational training. It is being proposed that by the summer of 2022 we should ensure that a new equipment pool is created for vocational training of 150 million. kr. The Left writes in the comments to the proposal that Denmark should be the pioneer country when it comes to climate and environment and the green transition. It's hard to disagree with. So far, so good. In order to succeed, however, vocational training also needs to be equipped with modern tools, knowledge and technology so that they can train skilled workers who are equipped for the green technologies of the future. Then I also agree with the part about making vocational schools more attractive to young people and getting more people to look for them. So on these first points, the government agrees from end to end. It is, after all, incredibly good that it is the case that we in the Folketing agree quite broadly that that is the direction. Therefore, we might ask: has the government not already developed more initiatives in relation to the green transition to vocational schools? We have among other things. a new reform package for the Danish economy, allocated funds to new climate business schools, which will be power centres with strong professional environments for green conversion and sustainability. In addition, we have set aside EUR 200 million for the stimuli and green recovery agreement. kr. for climate adaptation and green conversion, of which there is an implementation agreement for 2022, with a budget of 58.4 million. kr. for equipment investments and associated skills development. So all in all, the direction is very much the same, and I am incredibly pleased about that. In addition, 115 million were allocated in 2020. kr. for an equipment lift of the school internships. In fact, as I remember, I think that was the reminiscence of an agreement reached under the Blue Government, an agreement which the Social Democrats also shared. The implementation of the agreement then took place with the tripartite agreement of May 2020, but as I remember it, it is actually back from the previous government. In addition, funds have been continued for centres of knowledge and additional funds have been provided for equipment to help cope with technological developments in vocational training. Then I would say that it is not so long ago that we have had a talk in this Chamber about how far we have come to create green education. There I had written a transcript of how far they have actually come at the amu centres and vocational training, and one of the things that is also extremely positive is that the trade committees have taken the lead. I had such a huge Compendium, because it is actually so much that it is necessary to list every initiative that has been taken, with a transport training that has been made green, or a building training that has been made green and so on. etc. So fortunately, things are going really, really fast these years. Then, as you know, from 2022, money has already been allocated to the Finance Act, and there is a Finance Act now. And it is so little difficult to come up with anything in the middle of two financial laws after that, without there being any concrete funding, and 150 million. kr. isn't exactly a grip in your pocket. But, of course, the Left is welcome to bring the proposal to the financial law negotiations for 2023. The government is not going to support a proposal of this nature between two financial laws, but since the political direction is very much the same, it is certainly not because we do not want to go to two different places that we will not be voting in favour of this proposal. So I just want to end by thanking the Left for bringing it up. I think this is extremely important and, in reality, there is a great deal of exactly what concerns vocational training and their participation in the green transition, which I think is getting far too little space. It is both in the media and in the public debate and everything else. Therefore, there is good reason for it to be taken in this Chamber, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422131955	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments, and that means that we are now embarking on the rapporteur's round. It's first, sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132010	Thank you to the Left for tabling a motion for a resolution, which is once again an opportunity to discuss how we can get more skilled people, and this is an important discussion. It also fills a lot in the government, and fortunately it also fills a lot in the conciliation circles we have together, because it is a broad desire in the Folketing. It is also relatively simple and that is also what the Minister said about the fact that one can say a little harshly that there will be no green transition at all and that we will not be able to deal with the climate struggle and the efforts we will have in the coming years if we do not have skilled workers. That is why it is of course extremely important not only to have more skilled workers, but also to have up-to-date equipment and to have the green sector become an increasingly important part of vocational training. So we agree with the Left that there are those needs we actually think we have addressed it. The Minister mentioned climate business schools, we have made the various tripartite agreements here, we have set aside money for green education, some of which go to equipment as well, and we see that in this way there is a great deal of agreement between the wishes of the resolution and the policy actually pursued, but of course we also look at the fact that the Left raises such things as this and that, if so, it will be included in a debate on finance law or in other negotiations. We cannot support the proposal because there is no funding, since the financial law in force has been agreed and prioritised differently from what the Left is proposing, and that is why there is no money in the real world to buy equipment for what it looks like right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132202	A brief comment on Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132207	Thank you. Thank you for the nice words both from the Socialist rapporteur and from the Minister, in relation to the fact that this is an important initiative, but it is not the case that you can buy equipment in schools for praise, flattery and cheap port wine. It's like money for that. That is why I would like to ask the Socialists' rapporteur the question: if you agree as much as you say in this Chamber, why is it that you have not set aside money on your first, second or third financial law, which you have created, and where you have had ample opportunity to allocate money to a pool of equipment in our vocational training courses across the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132247	I agree that you cannot buy for words. Of course, there has to be money for that. And it can be said that the latest example of an investment in green equipment is the agreement that was made on 6 April this year, i.e. just before Easter, where 58 million. kr. out of the total pool of 100 million kr. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in respect of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132305	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132308	Yes, but that doesn't change the fact that it's specifically related to the centres of knowledge. Then there are the continuing training initiatives, and then we also have the whole discussion about climate business schools, which do not help all the places in Denmark, for example. Auto mechanics are trained and faced with a reality of not only servicing petrol and diesel cars, but also suddenly dealing with electricity, hydrogen, hybrid and a wide range of other forms. So the fact that specific, targeted initiatives are being made in a few places does not, of course, benefit all the many educational provision available in Denmark, and so I would just like to repeat the question: if the Socialists agree, why has money not been set aside for a real equipment pool?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132350	But we also set aside money to buy equipment and, in relation to the discussion we have about climate business schools, it is clear that it will be some lighthouse. Well, now it's not finished, but it's gonna be some lighthouse. But it is not, of course, because it is only in the climate vocational schools that you have to switch and you have to train green, and therefore, in the general strengthening of the economy of vocational schools, in investing more in vocational schools, there will of course also be a question of everyone updating, if you may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132419	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. There are no further brief comments, which means that we will move on to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132445	Thank you. In SF we are pleased that the Left will help to raise vocational training and at the same time support the green transition. It has long been a priority for SF, and it was also a great victory for us when we got sustainability written into the purpose clause for vocational education and training, and when we were allocated 100 million in the Finance Act 2021. kr. for green projects on these particular courses. Because we must educate green people, and that applies to our children and young people, but also to adults. A real political priority is needed if we are to achieve the objective of the green transition. That is why we also agree with the Left's vision of green vocational training, and in the SF we also see several good initiatives in this particular proposal. However, the promise of vocational training also requires solid funding and, as we look at the proposal, the economy is simply not in place and we cannot therefore endorse the proposal as it stands. However, we look forward to the committee reading and future discussions in this area, because it is a very important priority both for me and for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132551	There is a brief comment on Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132555	After all, we have fully financed this proposal with our financial bill, so that is why, of course, the money is there. But it is clear that when you spend it on an Arnepension and various other things that you would rather give priority to, there is no money to give priority to, for example. a pool of equipment for vocational training. That is how we have had different priorities in our draft budget, which is why it is just as financed as it needs to be in order to be implemented. After all, we in the Left have been very much in agreement with the SF in saying that the creation of three climate business schools is deeply problematic, because one sends a signal that it is only there that you have to have a green transition. In view of this, I would actually like to ask SF whether SF will help to ensure that we get the equipment lifted in the other vocational schools as well, and that we ensure that we have the economy at all to ensure that we have modern equipment for the digital transition to the green transition that we are facing everywhere in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132700	Thank you for the question. And I can say yes to that. What I am saying with this speech is that we are actually looking forward to the committee reading, where we can try to see how we can proceed with exactly some of these initiatives. We think that we should be ambitious and we think that we should also get much more into gear in our vocational training programmes, in terms of creating both a way of education and a practice that is also green and sustainable. And it is clear that it also requires a political priority. But it is also the case that we have financial law with the government and the other support parties, and it is the one that finances the initiatives we are taking, and it is the case that they have to be • we need money for the things we want to put in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132744	Ellen Trane Nørby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132747	Yes, it is quite true that a red financial law agreement has been drawn up, which unfortunately is not the third time that we have tried to draw up a financial law agreement. the equipment area, but certainly not with the general boost that is needed. And that is really a pity, because I actually hear that we agree that we should make it attractive to take a vocational training course and also make sure that they have the muscles to do. However, I would just like to ask: can you expect that it is a priority for the SF for the forthcoming financial negotiations to have a pool of equipment for vocational training?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132819	Imagine that question too, I would have imagined that I could have, but I can tell you that I will not be able to explain the SF's draft budget here in the platform before the next rebirth. But what you have to hear, no, sorry, what the rapporteur for the proposers has to hear is that it is
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132841	That's how the direct charge was elegantly handled. Thank you. There are no further brief comments and we will move on to Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422132907	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the motion on the left. I would like to start by saying quite frankly that we in the Radical Left would like to strengthen both vocational training and that we would also like to find the money for it. That is why we fully share the intentions of the draft law. Whether it's just for equipment or not, I don't think so. We would like to go further than that, and we would like to give priority to education in general, but also, specifically, vocational training, which I recognise is underfunded, and we must act on that. That is why, of course, we also need to be able to find some real money, both as understood, as Mr. Jens Joel said that it has to be some money that has been set aside in a real agreement, but I also think that it has to go beyond just a financial law and that it has to be some lasting means, and that is why we believe that reforms are needed that provide room for proper economic priorities of education in Denmark, including this proposal. So that is the long-term, that is to say, we want negotiations that secure massively more money for education, particularly for vocational training. So this more specific purpose that lies in this, we would also like to support it. But I see it as part of a taximeter negotiation, which I hope we will also get very soon. However, as I begin with, I would just like to thank the Left once again for both making it clear that we must prioritise the climate of our education system, that we must give priority to vocational training and that it must be for new money, in other words that we cannot do so within the framework that exists. We fully share that intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133057	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133100	Thank you to the radical rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech. Yes, we in the Left believe that new money is also needed in the education system. We have also included this in our Finance Bill, both when it comes to taximeters and when it comes to internship-creating activities, and when, as in this particular case, it is about an equipment pool. And we do, because that is what is needed. However, we have also made a resolution specifically on an equipment pool because we do not necessarily believe that it can all be held just within a basic taximeter. And it's realizing that some of these investments are going very fast and that they're big. And that is why we believe that there is an important dividing line between what needs to be contained in a taximeter system, which is about daily life, and what we want to achieve at least, also by creating an extraordinary pool, namely that we can actually get some of the places where we risk that the equipment does not match the green reality or the technological reality or in other ways do not match. And there I would just like to ask the radical rapporteur whether the Radical Left agrees that this is something that we should work together to bring into the future financial law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133208	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133211	That's a fair point, that this is something you have to lift right now. My point was the more that there is also a need for a lasting boost and that it should enter the taximeter. And in order for us to make a very good taximeter agreement, there will, I think, have been, ideally, some economic reforms that provide lasting funds in the long term. The point from the questioner is so much more that it is actually now and here that, as I understand it, there is a need for a lump sum, and we are certainly willing to look at that. I'm not going to reveal our financial bill, just as the SF doesn't either. But if it is a one-off expenditure, then it is clear that it will also be something that could be negotiated in relation to a financial bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133249	Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133253	Well then, I will choose to take that down positively, because yes, we believe that there is also a need for a one-off salt water injection, or that is not a one-off amount, because since I myself was Minister of Education, we set aside EUR 0.25 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important point. Because when it comes to the big investments in our vocational school system, it cannot be covered by a taximeter system, however well that taximeter system may be, because when we look at robotisation, digitalisation and the green transition that we have so specifically focused on, something extraordinary is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133328	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133331	Thank you. And, of course, we have all the good arguments in our minds in relation to the various debates that are coming, both on the taximeter, hopefully very soon and then later on on the Finance Act, and then we'll see which place it makes the best sense to raise this particular issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133349	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that means that we will move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133402	We agree in the Enhedslisten with the proposers that there is a need to invest more in vocational training. The training is financially under pressure, and how can I say it graciously? I fully recognise that money was allocated to an equipment pool, but education was also generally pressured on their economy. I think it is right that if we are to do something to make vocational training more attractive to young people, there are many parameters that need to be taken into account, but I think that the fact that education and training are modern, future-oriented educational establishments does indeed matter. This helps to increase the visibility of the importance of vocational training, so I fully agree that it plays a major role, even if we can invest in such a way that it not only gives the impression, but that it also strengthens vocational training and the ability of the institutions to take part in the whole green transition. We have called in the last few times for more funds to be allocated to vocational training in the financial legislation negotiations. In this connection, we have received money for the area, but not as many as we wanted. Sir. I think Jens Joel mentioned the pool, which is indeed intended for continuing training, but nevertheless 60 per cent. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So we have tried, but I agree that we have done so in small terms, and I therefore agree that more needs to be done. In relation to investment in vocational training, it has already been mentioned by others that we will soon have to hold a debate on the taximeter system, and we have made no secret in the Enhedslisten that we do not think that we can solve the problems relating to the economy of vocational training, just through redistribution, but that additional funds are needed, and I think that the Enhedslisten and the Left may have a common agenda on this matter. Otherwise, I have to say, as other rapporteurs have said, that we are in the middle of two financial legislation negotiations, and perhaps the proposers also agree that it is not really a way of financing to refer to the proposals that were put forward for a financial law that has been negotiated and ended with a different result. But I really think the small-drilling is uninteresting. The important thing is to try to create a political assembly to invest in vocational training. We cannot support the proposal as it stands here, but we are very much in favour of working with the Left to improve vocational training in general, but also to ensure that modern equipment is available to contribute to the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133729	Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133732	Thank you. It is true that we are now between two financial laws, you might say, but it was money that we included in our financial bill, and we did, because, if there had been a left-wing government, money would have been given both to an equipment pool, but also to the taximeter reform and the other initiatives we have had in our financial bill proposal. And that is the way it is: we have different priorities. Some give priority to raising benefits to refugees and immigrants without work and making an Arnepension. The rest of us have given priority, for example. vocational training, inclusion and other good things in the field of education. But basically I hear the rapporteur's position as positive. It is true that we also set aside an equipment pool of 0.25 billion. kr., last there was a Left Government, and we also exempted vocational training from the re-priority contributions that were otherwise imposed on the sector. But I have to say that I am a little puzzled, because now I have heard both the SF and the Radical Left and now also the Enhedslisten and the Social Democrats say that they want to prioritise it. After all, three financial laws have been drawn up, so why is that not a priority yet?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133837	We have actually given money to vocational training. We have also given money for equipment that I have just mentioned. If we are in the political polemical corner, then the former Left Government has left behind a welfare system in which there has been an extraordinary amount to correct. That is something we cannot avoid, and there we have been in a number of priorities where I do not have to take on the role of the government. They must give the full explanation of the approach they have to how quickly we can make a recovery, but it is fair to say that we four or five parties that have made financial laws together have many tasks to do. One of the important issues is the area of vocational training, but unfortunately we have so far not come as far as we would like.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133922	Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133925	In other words, I would understand if the rapporteur had mentioned the covid-19 pandemic that has struck, but it is actually wrong to say that there was a gap in the welfare society. After all, billions of extra billions have been spent on the welfare society, even while there was a Left Government, and that was because there was a need for investment both in our health services and in a large number of other areas. But what we are talking about today is vocational training, and if you have the will, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, then I would really like to ask why it has not been given priority either to the first, second or third Finance Act, which has now been drawn up with the votes of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422133958	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422134001	As I said, we wanted to see a much greater increase in youth education. I am sure that if Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby compared the demands we made in connection with the financial law negotiations and what came out of them, she would see that we had wanted more. Otherwise, I would say that the controversy sometimes becomes stupid if we actually agree that we want to go in the same place. However, if there had been more investment in equipment under the previous government, we probably would not have had the delay that is pointed out in the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422134033	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we go further in the line with Mrs Gitte Willumsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422134048	Thank you. We are discussing a motion for a resolution tabled by the Left, in which the authors of the motion want to create a pool of equipment for vocational schools and thank you very much for the good proposal. For of course, vocational schools must have the opportunity to give students a strong education, an education with solid professionalism and training in the traditions of the craftsmanship. It requires access to the latest equipment and professionally competent teachers. Whether a pool arrangement is the right solution in terms of purchasing new equipment, we in the Conservative People's Party are in doubt. With pools always comes bureaucracy, applications, deadlines, reporting etc. For us, it is also important that schools can decide for themselves what to buy and when to buy. It's at the individual school that you know what you're missing. Sometimes pools become too narrow to solve each school's challenges. We agree with the goal, but we will use another means. For us, it's natural that this becomes part of the taximeter system. It must be so strong that schools have the opportunity to purchase the relevant equipment. Hopefully, we will soon be negotiating the taximeter services. The proposal is sympathetic, and we would very much like to support it, but, unfortunately, since we ourselves have not allocated exactly such pool funds here on our draft budget, we cannot be in favour of this model. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422134231	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422134248	Thank you, President. After all, the Danish People's Party supported the government's excellent equipment pool in 2015, and we do so this time too, of course. We want to strengthen anything that can strengthen vocational training. The 20th century was the century of general high schools. I hope that the 21st century will be the century of vocational training in Denmark, and it can hardly go too fast. The only thing I have a little doubt about is funding. I have not seen the Left Finance Bill, but I am sure we can find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422134323	There is a brief comment on Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422134325	Thank you for your support. I would just like to sign for the positive reception by the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur. I fully agree with the rapporteur that we need to focus on how we are not just talking about lifting vocational education, but are doing so. And I also remember a very good cooperation on the 0.25 billion. kr., which we found back in 2015, just to create an equipment pool. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he agrees that much can be put into a taximeter system, even when it comes to maintenance and procurement, but when it comes to large investments, for example. If you have to replace the whole equipment package, which many of the workshops in the vocational schools are facing when you go from diesel and petrol cars to having to deal with electric, hydrogen and hybrid vehicles and a large number of other undiscovered propellants, then there is also a need for something extraordinary and not just something that you can take in from operation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422134417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422134419	I very much agree that technological developments are indeed awesome these years. It is going so fast and it is going even stronger in companies, and if vocational training does not have equipment that matches just about what is in the business world, then it will be harder to attract the pupils, because they are not stupid and they know what is happening in the business world. So the idea of having a pool independent of the meter is the right one, because that way they should not find the money themselves within a taximeter financing. We are fully involved, and that is well thought out, and we hope, of course, that a majority can be obtained for it somewhere in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422134500	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422134522	Thank you, sir. President, and also thank you for, yes, the basic welcome in the rapporteur's speeches. Special thanks to the Danish People's Party for its support and also the clear speech and will for action. This is probably one of the things that is necessary when we talk about our vocational education and training. It is that we are not only talking about them but that we also have the will to act and the will to allocate the necessary funds to strengthen our vocational education and training system. I'm afraid it's been a mess. In Denmark we often call ourselves a pioneer country, even when it comes to the green transition, and we are also known to be pioneers. We have also been known in the past to pioneer with our entire vocational, proud tradition of craftsmanship, about having a professionalism, not from an academic world, but from a professional world. Unfortunately, we have lost that terrain. We need to regain that terrain and not just be a pioneer when we talk about thinking green transition into our educations too, but generally when we talk about the pride of being able to a professional craftsmanship or a profession. But it is also crucial when we look at our vocational education and training, and when we look at what challenges they face, that we then make sure that they have the economy to meet them in the right way and at the same time be attractive to the young people who are facing the choice of education. We just have to say we're lagging behind right now. This is also done in vocational training, whether we are talking about equipment to meet the challenges we face in the climate and green areas, or digitalisation elsewhere, but also in general. That is why, with this motion for a resolution, we would like to see an end to our financial bill, which showed a clear priority for vocational education and training, to use it here to strengthen our vocational education and training with an extraordinary equipment pool. It can be said that there are several obvious reasons for doing so: we lack skilled workers both now, but also, and even more so, in the future. And if we are to make it attractive for young people to apply for vocational training across the country, we must politically in here not only have the will to talk about it, but also the will to act and lift our vocational education and training throughout the country. We must also ensure that the skilled people of the future are geared to both the green and technological world of tomorrow, and not to yesterday, as they are going to meet, and when we train our young people, we must also ensure that the reality they meet in schools matches the labour market in which they find themselves. Not everywhere today, simply because you cannot afford and have the opportunity to keep up. It is a very complex world, we know that, and it will not be less complex. But if you take just one example, you can say that the auto mechanic not only has to advise customers and sell cars and repair cars and understand it, but has gone from the fact that it is not just about gasoline and diesel, but more also about a large number of other drives • electricity, hydrogen, hybrid, a large number of forms that we do not even know today. The electrician and the industrial technician must switch their field of work from something very concrete to a very much digitalised world with remote reading, where sectoral coupling is a word that not only serves as a focus point, but in concrete terms means that you have to be able to make solutions in everyday life. The bricklayer and carpenter must work with sustainable materials, minimise waste of resources, and this is how the subject area for the subject area could be taken. Everywhere you face some challenges, both when it comes to the green agenda, but also when it comes to digitisation, mechanization, robotization, etc., and it goes fast. That is why we have to say that we also need to be able to keep up in schools financially and to take care to ensure that our education is strong enough. As recently as Tuesday of this week, the lack of funding for the green transition into our vocational training programmes was criticised by Tekniq's director and similarly also by the Federation Chairman of the Blik and Pipe Workers' Association. You pointed out, as we have also pointed out, that most schools lag behind when it comes to equipment. It can't just be done on the meter, it requires extraordinary investment. That is why we hope that in committee we will be able to translate the positive words into action, so that we can really ensure that the young skilled workers who are going to our labour market, that the school they are going to go to, have both the resources and the opportunities to do modern technological training. This is not the first time we have proposed such a pool of equipment. We did the same when we were in government ourselves, and fortunately there was broad support for what we together found 250 million. kr. to create an equipment pool for vocational training to boost the transition. The pool was a success back in 2015 and we hope that it is a success that we together can also build on. I also think that, if you want to look backwards, you would say that it was necessary to draw up a pool not because there has not been an investment willingness in the meantime, but because developments are going so fast and because investment in equipment is also disproportionately large. We do not believe that three climate business schools are enough. Basically, we would rather have sixty-six, so that we could in principle turn all our vocational schools into climate vocational schools. We want to do so because we do not believe in the creation of A and B schools, but instead we need to ensure that all our vocational education and training programmes, both professionally and also when it comes to equipment, are ready for the challenges that meet young people when they are finished and stand with their letter of amendment in their hands. So, yes, the motion for a resolution we are putting forward today must actually be just one element in solving a two-sided problem, which is both interrelated but also interdependent: that we must make vocational schools more attractive and correct the lack of skilled workers, but that on the other hand we must also make sure that we not only believe that the green transition will come about by itself, but that, both when we talk about people who have to carry out the tasks, when we talk about legislation and when we talk about all the framework conditions, we also have to ensure that those who are going to be involved in the green transition have the right training to do so. I look forward to the committee reading and hope that we can get a positive agreement on strengthening vocational training. Thank you for your support, especially for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422135216	Thank you. There are no brief comments, which is why we thank the rapporteur. I have to make sure that no rapporteurs have been given the floor. There is no such thing and the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422135241	The debate is open. The Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422135249	Thank you. If I am to be really annoying and christian-like, I would just like to say that this resolution is completely out of the window, because it does not put forward a resolution on something that is conciliation. There's a public school settlement, and that means you can't just vote things through like that and then walk away from conciliation like this. The Left would never do that. But since I know the Left well enough to know that it is not what is meant by it either, unless the rapporteur then comes up and says that the Left is terminating the school settlement, and I do not think so, I think I take it in the spirit that that is not what the Left means by it, and therefore I will not be very rigid and christian-style and instead try to relate to the content. But, by its very nature, it is still the case that, in the way in which the Christiansborg is run, it is the case that, of course, the government does not support this, and, of course, as part of a conciliation group, you cannot table a resolution, and of course everyone else who goes up and supports it here and who is part of that settlement will, of course, have terminated the conciliation. It'd be a little crooked. But now we take it the other way, because I think it is actually interesting to debate the content, so let us try to move away from the Christiansborgrigidity and to what is the content. It is incredibly close to my heart that we have schools anchored in local environments. It is incredibly close to me that we have schools where there is a strong and committed parental circle, and that is why I want to move away from the rigidity and to the content, because I think that is actually interesting. I would also like to give a commitment that we will be debating this in the public school conciliation circle, because the right way around this, just for all those who are watching, is that Ellen Trane Nørby is texting me and asking if we can debate this at the next conciliation meeting and that I am writing 'yes' back. Then we take it in the conciliation circle, and then we can change things. I therefore assume that it is because it is also a good public debate to have that we take it this way instead. However, it is merely an undertaking that the text sent the other way in this context would have contained a 'yes', and it will remain unchanged. When I think it's incredibly important that we discuss this around the school boards, it's because sometimes there are challenges, for example. Getting parents to run for school board. Then it works when you go out and draw attention to it; then typically there are some more. However, this reflects the fact that there is probably too much poverty in the subjects that one can be allowed to debate and what one can be allowed to decide on in schools. I mean, just to give you a thoughtful example, and I don't think we should do it, but it's just to tell you how much fire you could put to the parents: if you allowed them to decide whether the children should be taught in German or Chinese, or if you allowed the parents to decide whether to abolish the third class altogether, or if you should allow the children to be home-schooled for 6 months in a row, without having to have adult supervision. This is how you can go on taking up subjects where you know that in the second you did those things there would be battle elections for all school boards in Denmark. I do not think that we should go where we put up such crazy things; it would take a lot of time for parents to go into it. But it does say that we may have put the cut in the wrong place when we are there that the parents do not engage. I think this reflects the fact that we have given too little opportunity to control the schools, and I simply think this is a real pity, because I believe that schools are driven by a teacher engagement, a parent engagement and a student engagement, and I believe that it is an essential part of running school that it is also precisely facilitated. So I am in no doubt that the cut is wrong, and that is why I think it is good to have this debate taken here, and I think it is good that we have taken it in the public school circle too, so that we can change it. By the way, I am very much in favour of more freedom for schools. After all, we have come up with proposals from the government to make welfare attempts. We have started with two municipalities in the primary school area and are now spreading it further. Our proposal is that one third of the municipalities should be covered. It's being negotiated right now, so we'll see how it lands. But what is the point of this is not, of course, that it should be freedom for the municipalities. It's been written about this sometimes, and it's actually incredibly important to make that clear. I think that, for the individual teacher, for the individual parent and for the individual pupil, it is in fact minor whether the rule comes from the municipality or the state. What is crucial for teachers, pupils and parents is whether they can decide for themselves or whether it is for some politicians to decide about it, and that is why it is very, very important to make clear at least what the government has played out with, and indeed what we have agreed on for the first two municipalities, that it is both a waiver from state rules, but that is also a waiver from municipal rules. In other words, we must take a step back here at Christiansborg, as must local politicians, in order to form part of these attempts at freedom. When it is important for me to mention here, it is really because I think it is huge in principle. Of course, the municipalities must be those who generally run the primary school, because there are some issues that cross a school sector in a municipality. Moreover, there are also some things that go across day care institutions and schools and that make it a good idea that we have someone who has the overall view of it. Having said that, however, there is a great deal that should lie out in the individual school and in the individual classroom and that has been moved in centrally in a way where teachers lose their job satisfaction, parents lose their desire to engage, so do the pupils, and that is not acceptable. So I am incredibly happy that we are negotiating about the attempts at freedom, but it is also from here just a promise that I would very much like to participate in the debate, whether the interface is right in the relationship between the school board on the one hand and the municipal council on the other. And with the direction that the Left is setting up here, I am sure we can get to the end of it. I would, of course, very much like, when we start such discussions, to do so in the forum we have set up and which we are all in common, that is to say together about the school, where we have the parties around the primary school sitting, that is to say both municipalities, teachers, managers, pupils and parents, and that in this context we have this debate taken in a way so that we get the sections right. After all, I also hear that all other stakeholders around the school are very concerned that there is an involvement in the parent circle. So it is just to say that if we abandon all the christian-borg rigidity, which is about the fact that it is completely unorthodox to table this resolution, I nevertheless think that this is a good opportunity to have a good debate on it. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422135927	There will be an opportunity for that. For now it is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422135932	Thank you. It can be said that it is even more conciliation to make an agreement to lower the class ceilings in the primary school bypassing the conciliation circle which can then be taken into account afterwards. Then there are the motions for resolutions which we have also dealt with in this Chamber, from parties on the red side, which have been about inclusion in the 0th class and therefore rules, which we have also agreed to settle. So I'm really glad that the minister was like this, so let's just take off this process hat and then deal with the content, because otherwise we can have a lot of discussions about all the examples that are just there. When we have put it forward, it is because we want this debate, and the Minister knows just as well as I do that we have had a desire to have a debate on freedom of education not just for a short time, but for several years. Along with others, too. Mr. After all, Jacob Mark of the SF has travelled in the conciliation circle that we want a discussion on this. And then we all know that the coronapandemic put an end to much of what was actually planned. So I actually think that if the minister goes back, you can probably find a text. However, I would like to know whether there are any individual elements on which the Minister will already give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422140041	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422140044	First of all, I would like to say that what is the agreement under the Finance Act is in fact that we will only ask the public school circle. In fact, I do not think we can go any further, and that is how far we have gone with the financial law agreement. I think that is the right way to do it over in the christianborg rigidity, that is to say you can only agree that you want to take it up in a certain place. Well, enough about that rigidity. In fact, I think that there is something in the element that is about precisely the school boards and their competence. I do not want to comment on the very specific individual elements. In fact, I think it is incredibly important that we extend what we can help to decide as a school board. I think we should go to a place where we have had the parties before I start bidding on individual elements of it. I think we should have a thorough debate on this. But it's just to say that I think the part about the school board is extremely important, and I think it's about decision-making competence, that is, what you can help decide as a school board.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422140138	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422140141	Yes, we fully recognise that this is a discussion we must have in the conciliation circle, and we look forward to taking it there as well. Because it is there and in the Forum together about the school that we really must also have nails in. However, I think it is also important that we have a general, fundamental debate which basically concerns how much detail needs to be regulated from inside this house. Because there have been enough legislative proposals that have been about this Parliament having regulated a lot of things nationally. That is why I really would like to ask the Minister something. This also moves some power from the council to the school board. Does the minister have red lines when it comes to that move?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422140216	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422140217	Well, now I've been working at a high school myself, where the school meeting could fire both teachers and principal. I can't recommend that. I have taken part in a number of debates on this. It is simply the most absurd thing I have ever participated in. So it's just to say that when you've been employed at the Free Gymnasium in Copenhagen, you definitely have some red lines, compared to what a board local with the participation of a majority of students should decide and not decide. These can be hugely ugly processes. So I have it by nature. But now I was standing right up here pecking off, and I can say that without having to run the negotiations here I can be a part of most of what the Left is up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422140252	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. This means that we are embarking on the rapporteur's round. Sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422140304	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Left for tabling the motion for a resolution. This gives us another opportunity to discuss it. I think it is the case with many discussions at Christiansborg that there are some movements back and forth, some pendulum movements, or whatever we call it. I think that we in the Folketing have a feeling that some of what is needed to get more energy, more enthusiasm, more quality, more time for what is essential at school is that we give more freedom. We have simply come to a place where the overall regulation from Christiansborg with procedural requirements, and what it may be, has become too large and too much. It has taken some zeal out of the local school run, but it has also done so that you might end up using your gunpowder on something other than what is really the centre of the school. That is why, in the conciliation circle, we have discussed several times how we give more freedom. This is the background to the attempts at freedom which are a reality in Holbæk and Esbjerg and which the Prime Minister announced in the New Year's speech should spread throughout the country and which are currently being negotiated. This is an extremely important agenda. It was not so long ago that we in the committee were on a trip to Holbæk. When you talked to them at the different schools in Holbæk, one of the things that went back was that they said: Now we just do it. They could not actually always say whether what they had just done had been banned before the attempt at freedom, but what was the difference was that they had previously assumed that it might not be possible to do so. That's why they hadn't really dealt with what to do, what to do, what to get better and something like that. You'd just thought, "I don't think we can change that." Now you're thinking the other way around. Every time you get a good idea or every time you want something, you say, "Now we just do it." Because you expect it to be possible because you are now freed. We must have that energy spread and made much more dominant, one might say. I also think, as the Left points out in this specific resolution, that the school boards and the toning of the school or profile, or what you can say, and what you can do to make a special impression on the school, are very important. One of the things that free and private schools are good at, for example, is also to involve parents and thus the energy that lies in the interaction. Because, as the Minister also said, the teacher involvement, the student involvement, but also the parent involvement, is what makes a good school. So we would very much like to discuss, both how the school boards can get more hand- and neck-righted, so more influence over the everyday life they are part of, and in relation to the school they create, but of course also others and other than the school boards, because it is a broader agenda. We are not going to support this resolution because, as has been said a few times, it is a discussion in the conciliation circle, and now we have even made it a tradition to make it even more complicated and christiansborg-like or I do not know whether it is christiansborg-like in the conciliation circle, that before we hit a nail in the conciliation circle at all, we are also talking to those who do school in everyday life, i.e. together about the school, the school parties. This makes it a little more complicated because there are a whole lot of things that you can't promise in advance and something like that, but it also gives you a better quality, because when we actually make an agreement, even though it takes a little longer, there is also a greater chance that it will turn into something and not just turn into something, but also into something sensible out there in reality. So thank you for the debate on that. We do not support the proposal, but we would very much like to continue the discussion on how to ensure more freedom for schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422140646	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422140647	Thank you for receiving this proposal. I fully agree that this should be negotiated and discussed in the conciliation circle. I also think it is healthy that we should also take a public debate on what direction we want to take. For this discussion about freedom has tended to be more about buzzwords. I do not know what such a thing is in Danish in this Chamber; we can translate it into pang words, or whatever we call it. Perhaps more has been discussed in headlines than in what is actually to happen. I met a municipal politician from the rapporteur's party who asked: Well, what should the municipal council do? And I think that was very interesting, because I was actually thinking that this debate on freedom that we have been having for a long time now, including in this house and in the conciliation circle, is starting to be a discussion about what we should not interfere with. And in some way we must also have it spread out to be a discussion about what it is, the municipal council and, above all, the administration should not interfere in, but which we dare to start out at the individual school. There I just want to ask again, as I also asked the Minister, whether the rapporteur has red lines on what to put out and believe that schools can handle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422140756	Thank you. I would say to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby that it is true that, when foreign is used, a Danish translation is needed. It is not always easy, and there are also many expressions that gradually appear Danish. So it's not always easy to be president and manage this. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422140812	Thank you. I hear it as if the President lets the word buzzwords pass, so we can call it that. I have the same feeling as the Minister has also expressed that there are red lines, but in reality, before we begin to say what we do not want, we can discuss very much what we could do. And I think that balance is that we practice putting our hands in our pockets, as it were, like step one, that is to say, first step. And then the second step is that the municipal council does the same. There I think Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby is right to say that a public discussion about this is good and important, because it should not be just a headline. I believe that what is also central to saying about freedom is that it does not mean that school politicians or school policy debates become irrelevant. In fact, it is even more important to have a debate about where you want to go with the school, because that is what you have to look for when you do not make specific rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422140918	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, which means that we will move on to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422140933	Thank you. I'm a really big fan of elementary school. I think that in so many ways the primary school is the place that brings us all together crosswise. This is where children with different family conditions, different housing conditions, etc. Meet each other. This is the place where parents meet each other crosswise and are together about the kids. It is also typically the local gathering point in a society, both in the very small villages, but in fact also inside the large cities. That's where we gather, and that's why primary school is so important in so many ways. That is why we must also pay great tribute to the authors of the motion for a resolution. In the SF, we are very sympathetic to the content of the motion for a resolution. We must be better at giving more freedom, and it is true that it is a word we use many times, but we may not be very good at realising what it is we should be free to do. This is where it gets really interesting, because it is about the power of action: what is the freedom to do? More freedom must be given to take local decisions, to deal with professionalism, and to make decisions that make sense from the reality that you are in. We must have confidence in that. As rulers and decision-makers, we must also have confidence that they can actually do so. That is why we are also looking forward to working on strengthening local boards. Precisely because we are dealing with a settlement, I will not tire of talking more about whether it is Christiansborg technique or what we are dealing with, but I would first of all like to say that now I think we should sit down together and find out how we can do this in a good way and put action behind this freedom agenda which concerns local boards. One of the things that I also very much appreciate is that we have established this cooperation with the parties, in other words together about the school. It is with the teachers, with the heads of schools, with the educators, with the school pupils, etc. It's a really valuable job, and I think we should definitely bring them into this process, so that they can help to qualify where the cut should be put. So, with those comments, the SF looks forward to the future work, hopefully both in the committee and in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422141208	Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422141209	Thank you to the SF rapporteur for the positive reception. I would also like to sign that SF has been raising this agenda with us, not just for a very short time, but for a very long time, in terms of really creating a larger management room and giving more freedom and thereby also showing confidence in both our professionals, our parents, our leaders and students who stand out at the individual school. I would actually like to ask the SF's rapporteur about an element that is about where it is the right place to anchor the decisions and give freedom, because this is actually a discussion we have had. Now I asked the Social Democrats' rapporteur about this balance between national and municipal, but there is also a balance between what each teacher should decide and what the school board as a legitimate representative can say, because all the parties around the school must decide. There I would like to know whether the SF rapporteur agrees that there are a number of things which are not, of course, about ignoring the professionals, but which are basically about recognising all the parties around the school and where the school board is therefore the right place to place it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422141316	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422141317	I really think that the construction is such a good idea in terms of having parents, local parents, on a board that helps run school and make decisions. This may be in relation to profiles and areas of action, but it may also be by addressing some problems that you have at the local school. So it will also be the case that they must of course have some sort of competence to control some of what is going on and set a direction, but also with great respect for the professional skills of the school's day-to-day management and the employees who are there. So I do not know if I got any closer to what the rapporteur actually asked, but that is at least the interface with which I am very concerned, and I would really like to look at how we can make the school boards even stronger and, in fact, also give them more competences to make local governance and, hopefully, make it more attractive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422141417	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422141429	Thank you very much. I was just so happy when I read this motion for a resolution from the Left, because it really is the Friskole and Højskole left who have been on the field here. Sometimes our parties may well disagree smoking if it is about tests and grades and the control that lies in it. But right here you feel the common estate with local ownership, with music and with movement. And, as the other rapporteurs before me have said, we cannot support it directly, both because it is contrary to conciliation, but also because I think that these are some elements that need to be included in the overall discussion, and I therefore hope that the Left will consider whether it should necessarily be put to the vote or whether we cannot land a joint text, because we in the Radical Left would very much like to be included in such a text. We fully agree with what the Left writes about the showdown of platforms and portals. We also fully agree that the decision-making powers, in relation to who can choose which learning tools to spend money on, should go back to school, and we will actually have the opportunity to discuss this again soon, because I have raised a question on this which will come in June. We also agree with the Left about having shorter school days, and we also agree with the part about strengthening the management of the local school. In fact, I have some doubts just to say it as it is: I am open to question whether I agree with the proposal of the Left that it is the school board that should be able to hire and guys. But I certainly agree that we need that discussion. Because, on the one hand, I feel that the argument for doing what the Left says is that it is totally unacceptable in the places where you as a municipality choose to move the bad leaders around. I mean, I think that is totally unacceptable. On the other hand, I also think it is worth a discussion whether this is the most important thing or whether the most important thing is to strengthen the school management, in other words, in relation to having a head on each cadastre at all, that the head of the school spends his time at the school, and not at the town hall, and that a number of the decisions that have been withdrawn from school and are today at the town hall must go back to school. And that's why I think this discussion about the school management should start with the purpose of the primary school, Section 2, which is about who is responsible for the school and what is the competence of the manager, and I think we should have a discussion with each other about that, because it's gotten wrong, and I want that decision back at school. Then there are also the elements in the proposal here that are about sport and music, which are one of the things I am very concerned about. I've been going back for a look at the Music Committee. Former Minister for Education Ole Vig Jensen set up a committee to look at how we could get a more vibrant and more musical school, and they arrived at ten commandments, and I just want to read a few of them to you here. First, Commandment 6: You must realize that at first was the sensory perception. The instruction must therefore make use of body and senses in interaction with thought and fantasy. ▪ Second commandment 7: • You must understand that at school there is a time for everything, especially for the joy and experience. You must ensure that children often meet art such as pictures, music, poems, theater, movies and other things and are given the opportunity to express impressions and prints themselves. Third, command 8: "You must have the ability to marvel and marvel. That's why you have to give the kids roots and let them test the strength of their wings. I say that because I have such a hope that the next thing we have to do with music and movement will not only be special tracks or something extra or maybe even a few more hours to it, but that it is something that can be allowed to grow in all subjects, because I believe that the musical, the creative, the creative must fill much more in school. And then, in the Music Committee, some thought was given to the fact that in reality one should divide up the curricula and have such a common national strictly professional curriculum and then have the other half of the curriculum laid out at the school, so that it is the teachers at the individual school who, with their local profile, can unfold what it is for some things that would be relevant for us to work with, of course, with the local communities around. In this way, you would gain much more local ownership and get the profile that the Left is also talking about in its resolution. So we in the Radical Left would hope to be able to form part of the discussion we are going to have on curricula and, at the very least, of the discussion we are going to have with regard to the school together. So thank you very much to the Left for tabling this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422141859	Ellen Trane Nørby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422141901	Thank you very much to the Radical Left for their positive reception. I would actually like to ask you a specific point that the rapporteur himself raised, namely the part of the proposal that concerns hiring and firing the head of the school, which we have also discussed, because that is a great grip. On the other hand, it is probably also the most important grip if you want to reverse the chain of control. Should those who hire and decide whether things are good enough be some who sit in an office in the administration at the City Hall, or should those who are accountable to such right, both when it burns on, and when it's cheerful, be the parents, the pupils and the teachers... so the educational staff who depend every day on their management? There we have come to the conclusion that if, on top of a very strong trend of centralisation, which has really gone like a hurricane across school for more than a decade, we have to reverse developments, we have to have confidence that that is where it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422142003	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422142004	As I also said in my speech, I am, in fact, still a little unanswered about what I think about it. I definitely think it's a discussion we should have, and I'm a mover. I myself am a parent on the board of directors of a self-serving day-care institution, where it works in this way. We just hired a new leader, and it works pretty well. On the other hand, I think we should be careful not to think that this will solve it, because in some places the problem is that there is not a leader because you have made a construction where the same leader is on several matricles. And the most important thing is that there is a present, visible leadership present on all the matricles. So, regardless of how the other discussion about hiring and guys ends, I really think we have an important discussion to take on what kind of management span is necessary at school, and what kind of decisions have to be taken at each school and have to go back to school. And that's why we also need to have that discussion about section 2 of the primary school's purpose clause. Because it's so important that decisions are at school.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422142103	Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422142104	I fully agree with the rapporteur, and no, it does not solve the problems in itself. And there is the whole discussion about the right management, the management room, what it is, and what it is about a paragraph you put it on in the primary school law, which also gives the legitimacy to lead and create a strong local school, where you make more decisions, important. That is why we are also looking forward to taking the debate into the conciliation circle, and so I would just like to reply to the part of the question that was about whether we expect to put the proposal to the vote, that we do not, but we hope that this will be the starting point for us to take it well into both the committee procedure and the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422142140	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422142143	I think that sounds really good. I can also say that I look forward to the discussion we will have when we have the question debate on materials. I believe that an important part of the next discussion about what we should have moved back to school is that you have the right of advice to be able to choose what materials you want. Just to give a confession the other way: Great that we can agree on this way, because then it may be that we can also meet about some of the materials.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422142210	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. There are no further brief comments, and that means that we will move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422142222	We agree in the Enhedslisten with the proposers that greater freedom for the country's primary schools is desirable. There are, in fact, many constraints placed on the public schools over the last 20 years, and there is no reason to go into them in detail, but I think there is a need for us to have a debate on how to create much greater freedom. I also think we have come a long way. We are not, of course, part of the primary school circle; we would also have no objection in this regard to the political discussions that are going to take place on primary school, but we agree with the view that there must be a much greater freedom. I think the proposers may have a point in that the fact that you experience having a direct influence on school's everyday life, on big and small things in school, can make it more attractive for parents to choose primary school. I believe that it is important for many parents today to choose free schools, that they experience that here they have a greater opportunity to take part in decisions themselves, and that is why I think it is a correct assessment that freedom will also make the primary school more attractive. In this context, it is obvious that the school boards have the right forum; it is so well described in the motion for a resolution how it brings everyone together. Exactly what freedom should be and how much it should include, I think is actually worth a more thorough discussion. Today's debate, I note, also places a great deal of emphasis on this, which is why we cannot skip the municipalities altogether. I would like to acknowledge that I am not sure that this would be wise. I really do believe that we have a municipal primary school there, and that they can also decide in each municipal council how they give priority to primary school in their area and what quality they want. It is difficult to have a municipal public school if we think: by the way, the municipal council should not interfere in what is going on at school. It is not to speak against a freedom agenda, but sometimes I think it may seem a little too simplistic, and frankly I do not think we should have a state primary school in which maximum powers have been delegated to parents. In fact, I think it is wise for us to have a community-based primary school, which is why it is quite a fundamental discussion if there are more of us who mean it, and I really think there is. So where's the cut going to be? Where does that make sense? If it is the municipality that actually decides on the funding for the primary school, how reasonable is it that it is the collective community of the municipality that has influence, and how reasonable is it that it is specifically delegated to those who are close to the school's everyday life? So I am not in favour of the simplistic discussion, but I am not told that the proposers are, and I am not going to comment on the individual elements of it. There is something we think would be very sensible to delegate. There are other things that we may be concerned about the whole question of hiring and guys, and there may also be other elements. So we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands, but from this point of view we can give a commitment that we really want to be involved in a discussion on how to create a much greater freedom and how to focus on those areas between the municipality and the school board. I believe that we must also say that if we are to have dynamic and skilled school leaders at the head of our schools, it is probably not wise for us to remove any independent competence from the heads of schools, but wisely for us to leave a free space there, just as we attach great importance to the fact that there must be decisions that are really within the individual employee's framework to take, including the whole question of freedom of method and so on. So, on the one hand, it is simple to say: yes, there is a need for more freedom. On the other hand, I think it is complicated to find the right solutions. We are very happy to participate in the dialogue. We are happy to do so to the extent that we are invited to take part in the discussions in the school circle; we are happy to do so to the extent that we are invited to discuss it together about the school; and we are doing so in the various forums there are. We think this is an important agenda that we would like to take part in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422142724	There is a brief comment on Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422142725	Thank you for the comments made by the Enhedslisten rapporteur. No, we certainly do not want to simplify the debate on the part of the Left, and no, this does not mean that we will have a state primary school. However, just as we think that there is a legitimate right for us in here to have some opinions, that we are leading and also politically laying down legislation for our primary school, there is also a legitimate need, and also space and space, for local authorities to be able to participate in it. And there is a big difference between running a school in Brønderslev, or running a school in Copenhagen, and it only says that there are different, entirely legitimate management rooms in relation to our common primary school, which each has their own task to solve. But we just have to say that in recent decades it has only gone one way, and it is up, and it has also gone up too much, and that is why we believe it is important that we also dare to send out a signal not only in speech but also in action, that some of the power should be given back.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422142829	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422142830	I absolutely welcome the discussion, and at least there is no disagreement between the Left and the Enhedslisten so far, I am convinced that this might be the case when we delve further into the details. But we think that the discussion is important, we think that there has been too much centralisation, and this is a fine debate to have, which can help push the discussion forward, in terms of how we create greater freedom, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422142856	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Gitte Willumsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422142910	Thank you for the floor, President. The Left has tabled a very good resolution which aims to give more freedom to the country's school boards. This should help to create increased management space and room for manoeuvre for all school boards. Over the years, several criticized the school boards for not having the great function of condescendingly it has been said that they have the competence to choose the color of the toilet paper. Fortunately, this is not the case. But imagine, if we gave them more freedom and that it could help to give more ownership to the schools it could be fantastic. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports this resolution, which gives the school boards greater opportunity to make exactly the mark on their school they want. The motion for a resolution states that the proposal transfers a number of decision-making powers to the school boards, and what it does not say is that it is also being transferred from the municipalities to the school boards. It must therefore be the schools themselves that become more masters of their own house. Instead of the municipal administration hiring the new head of the school, if this is adopted, it will be the school board in future. Schools will also have the opportunity to choose or opt out of learning platforms as well as to purchase the teaching materials they want. It is actually reasonable for schools to decide for themselves which learning platforms or teaching materials are used. If you look at it from the outside, this motion for a resolution should be adopted with ease, because who does not want more staff? We hope that there will be, but we think that it will just take a little exercise. We in the Conservative People's Party hope that the government will engage constructively in the discussions, together with the rest of the conciliation circle, to give more autonomy to school boards.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422143125	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422143130	I do not want to ask a lot of questions, but I would just like to sign for the Conservative People's Party's support and say that I am also looking forward to the discussions we are going to have in the conciliation circle, where we can then stand side by side precisely to ensure that more freedom and decision-making power comes out in our schools for the benefit of our very schools. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422143148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422143149	You're welcome. I have a past in school, actually quite a lot of years, and I'll give very good kicks to our Conservative group when we discuss this. Because I certainly have some opinions on some of the material you see in schools today and the learning platforms, and I would say that the learning view underlying it is worrying to me. It's probably not something you would have chosen books from if you had the learning view that some of these platforms that are being used today have. But I'll pass that on to the people who are going to be negotiating about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422143223	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422143230	Thank you, President. This is an important debate which the Left has raised here in Parliament on the resolution, but, like the Minister, I would like to start by addressing the subject of conciliation. I assume that the Left will not send it here for second reading and thus vote in the Parliamentary Chamber. The rapporteur nods because otherwise we would have to vote no. Something else, and it is also a purely technical matter, is that we are currently discussing giving schools more freedom through the welfare agreements launched by the government. It would, of course, be an obvious forum to present some of these proposals. They could also be dealt with in committee in some form or other. I'm sure the left has thought about it, but I wanted to mention it just in case from the platform. I would like to say that in the specific points of the resolution we are doubtful about, for example. age-integrated classes. Research and experience show that this is not a very good idea. Nor am I sure that there will be a joint leader and a joint board of directors for a school and a youth school. And the thing about being able to choose a profile and bet on certain areas is that we are not so happy in the Danish People's Party either, because we really like our primary school being national and similar all over the country. On the other hand, it's exciting that you as the board can fire and hire the head of the school. You can do that in free schools, and there it actually works fine. The only obstacle I see is that school boards in primary schools are often composed of certain people and do not have a broad social and economic scope. And there I could fear that it is people with left-wing hangings who occupy the seats on such school boards, and then we are equal. Conversely, you could say that when you have the opportunity to hire and fire a school manager, it might encourage more people to get involved. I also think it is important that you as a school can choose or opt out of a learning platform that is also a good idea. Buying teaching material and choosing to convert supporting teaching into two-teacher schemes is also an excellent idea. Freedom is good, especially freedom in a framework that promotes freedom. As I said, we would very much like to discuss this in some forum. Whether it should be in the case of welfare agreements or it should be in the committee must be a little up to the Left. In any case, we are very positive about looking at the boards of the public schools and how they should be in the future. I have mentioned some of the things we are positive about. So thank you to the Left for kicking off the debate in the Parliamentary Chamber with the motion for a resolution. We cannot support it as it stands, but there are things in it that we think are really exciting and that we want to continue working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422143619	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur and it is for Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422143624	Thank you from here to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, also for the elements in which we share the view. And yes, that is quite right: when you give freedom, you also give the possibility that some may fail or make the wrong decisions. That is what is so fear-provoking with freedom sometimes, so that someone else will take advantage of freedom for something other than what you want. That is also why we in the Left in no way say that there is no legitimate management need and a need for a management and political focus, in relation to what the overall framework is around the primary school. Of course there is. And there I am quite aware that the Danish People's Party and the Left have some views other than Radical Left, as Mrs Lotte Rod said earlier. That is why we do not see this as a contradiction to the entirely legitimate right to political leadership, including by a primary school, both municipal and national, but we also see the need for us to be much more responsible for local management, namely the school boards. I can confirm to the rapporteur that we are not going to put it to the vote, but we really did have the discussion, even before the Coronapandemic struck, that we were going to discuss it in the conciliation circle, and then things have been put on standby, and now we really thought we needed to have a discussion, including a discussion which should not necessarily lead to a vote in here but which must be heard, also by others than ourselves, who are only behind closed doors in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422143742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422143743	Yes, and I actually think I support the Minister's idea that we should talk to the parties behind the school together before we even start anything. They probably have some experience that they can enrich us with. I got in touch with hiring and firing a school manager to think of something too. So, earlier in my own municipality, Odense, which was a social democratic municipality, it was the case that one had to have the party book in order to become headmaster at all. It's not like that anymore. So there are both the advantages and disadvantages of having a centrally managed recruitment process in relation to a decentralised recruitment process. In general, decentralisation is a good thing. I look forward to the debate I really do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422143829	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422143840	Thank you for the floor. The proposal we are debating now is a very important proposal, so thank you to the Left for putting it forward. I will deal with it in the constructive spirit that several people have been talking about, and not in this very formalistic spirit of elementary school reconciliation, process, etc. etc. I do not think that may be of interest to the people who may be sitting in the rooms watching television. It is probably more the substance that is interesting and it is really important. Folkeskole is in a kind of crisis, and this is not due to things that have been done wrong in the individual schools, as much as it is due to some sort of self-harming behaviour that emanates from Christiansborg, that is, that the primary school has become a battleground for ideology and a battleground for politicians who have forgotten all about armistice principles of one kind and the other. That is why various majorities under the leadership of changing governments have caused the primary school a great deal of difficulties and problems that many schools cannot solve themselves. I can mention such things as that inclusion is an incredibly beautiful and real idea, but it is also an idea that often finds it difficult to cope with reality. The children to be included may, of course, be in a situation where it is really a sin for them to go into an ordinary class, and the teachers to do the job may be powerless to face the task to be solved, the balance between the child and the class, and the considerations that point in different directions. And the idea that all children should learn as much as possible is also difficult to disagree with; the project is just not going to unfold with the reform of primary school. It has gradually been proved in so many reports that there is no reason to doubt it. However, the municipalities are also inflicting a great deal of difficulties on the schools. Several rapporteurs have mentioned this, and I think that is a reason to be positive about this proposal. After all, the municipalities sometimes embark on prestige projects with which it can be very difficult to see the meaning. Sometimes they stick to rules that the Folketing has long since made voluntary, and unfortunately this is the case too, and I am almost a little sad to say it, because it should not be such a bashing of the municipal employees that there are many municipal employees who obviously cannot make the time pass unless they plan very extensive series of meetings for the school management and employees, and that is why there is a need for a kind of third form of school. On one side we have the broad offer of primary school, which the name says must be popular. That is the way in the 1800s it was said inclusively or for everyone, and it marks all the institutions we have that come from the founding of our democracy: that when it is called something with popularity, it is because it is for everyone. Private schools must also be here because the Constitution gives citizens the right to keep school independently of state power. That is an important right to hold on to, and that is why we also need a third form of school, which is independent of politically dictated bureaucracy, whether it comes from the state or the municipalities, and is marked by the good ideas that arise locally. As I have said, we ignore the formal objections which, among other things, have been raised. The Minister has mentioned, we support the motion for a resolution. It is an obvious way to free the primary school from bureaucracy and from the clever ideas that come from this house and from various town halls and which all too often will make its mark at primary school. So thank you for the proposal and thank you for a good debate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422144307	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Then I can give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and therefore Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422144323	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you for the basically very, very positive reception from all parties in the Folketing. And the comments that have been made are some that we have made ourselves when the Socialist Government has presented finance agreements to lower the class ceiling bypassing the conciliation parties, or when the SF has tabled motions to change the rules for admission to the 0th class; and we had also expected comments to be made on how much we can debate outside the conciliation circle. And there I think that what we have managed to do in the other debates is to be able to hold discussions which, of course, both have the public interest and are also important to take, because they must not only be negotiated behind closed doors in a public school circle, but must also have a suspension, both in relation to the school, but indeed also in relation to the public, in relation to what direction it is. For the primary school and the school of the people and our community school are almost all of us. Either we have gone there ourselves, or we have children who go there, or our grandchildren go there, or in other ways we are entangled in our primary school. And that is why it is also important that we keep making sure that our primary school is strong and is precisely the school of the people and also has the freedom to be. Because there is a very, very big difference between whether you run a school on inner Nørrebro, or whether you run a school in a small village in South Jutland in Sønderborg Municipality, where I myself come from. There is a very big difference between Lise Abild's school and a school in Nørrebro. And that is why we must also recognise that, regardless of the fact that we have a legitimate political right, both national and municipal, to create a framework around the school, to have some goals, to have some points of reference, to have some desires for where the school should go, then we must ensure that there is freedom and that there is room for manoeuvre to be able to shape a strong school locally. More freedom and more opportunities are, in fact, some of the essence, not only of this resolution, but also of what we in the Left are working on every day to ensure that more of it comes to the Danes throughout our lives and thus to our children and young people in the Danish primary schools. I have no doubt that the creation of strong primary schools and the greater courage to give freedom and make more decisions are linked. And that is also the reason why, on top of the discussions in the conciliation circle on how to give more freedom to our schools, which have taken place for a long time, but which in many ways were blocked by a pandemic which none of us had ever ordered or asked for, it must say that it has also taken time from the discussions in the conciliation circle on everything else. And that is why we really think that now that we are well on the other side of the covid-19 being no longer a social-critical disease, we also need to have a school debate, where the debate on freedom is not just a headline discussion; we will also be dealing specifically with how we make it materialize in concrete initiatives that also mean something out there in everyday life. That is why we have tabled the motion for a resolution which we are debating today that we really want the school boards, which we consider to be the legitimate local body, to have more freedom so that they can find local solutions that suit their school. And it is precisely those who have the day-to-day running of schools who also know best what the individual school needs. We all come around the country and visit schools and know what diversity there is, and the fact that our primary schools are already different, we do not see that as a problem; we see that as a strength. And both when we talk about profiling schools, and when we talk about whether we should be allowed to have special electives, if we should be allowed to focus more on certain things, we do not have a concern that it should wipe out the feeling and experience that we have a strong primary school, which of course also has a national dimension. But we also believe that the solutions that sometimes have to suit everyone are often not going to suit anyone. And it is also for this reason that we believe that the school boards are the right place to anchor more freedoms. And yes, some will use freedom in a different way than that which we each think is right. But what lies in the courage to free ourselves is also to have confidence that even when some people make what we believe to be the wrong decisions, they are the right decisions in the context of each school and school board. That does not mean that there must be freedom for everything, nor does our motion for a resolution signal that in any way. But we have tried to qualify how we go from a headline discussion about giving more freedom to primary school to make it concrete and also having it anchored somewhere. For freedom cannot just fly around, so one thinks one has the freedom to run in one direction, while other teachers or parents think one can run in the opposite direction. And therefore, the freedom to run a stronger primary school must of course also be anchored locally, and there we believe that the school board is the natural place. We also think that there is good experience from free primary schools with how to run good, strong schools in different ways, and also locally with how to strengthen it. This in no way solves all the challenges facing our primary school. Some of the rapporteurs also mentioned the inclusion law, and we also have other discussions, which we are already well in the process of taking and which we are going to take. But that does not change the fact that we do not believe that the discussion about giving more freedom and also dared to anchor that decision-making power in the school boards can just wait for all the other important discussions. We believe it is important that, as a conciliation group and as a Parliament, we now begin to put concrete action behind the words in terms of wanting to free our primary school further and lay the decisions out locally, where you can then drive strong local schools, where co-ownership over the decisions and local commitment to creating the good, strong school is • how we create our We need it to go from discussion to real action. Because they won't get the freedom until we change the primary school law from in here until it's done, they don't have the framework to fill them out that way. And no, we are not going to bring this motion for a resolution to the second reading and thus to the vote in the Assembly. We do not do so, in respect of the fact that it is a conciliation decision, but we do not have anywhere in our perception of what a public school settlement looks like and can be handled, the view that it should make it illegitimate to discuss something as important in this Chamber as what the framework of our common primary school should be for the future. So, thank you for your support, and we look forward to the debate both in committee and in the conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422145034	Thank you to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby from the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur of the proposers. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422145051	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422145113	Thank you. After all, we should not go back to the previous debate, but I really think I know what the point of the questions is, I was just thinking. You have been given such an incredible format that I can understand the need to table resolutions instead; then you will be spared 3 hours a Friday afternoon and can only have a good debate in one hour. Maybe that's what this was about in terms of conciliation. But everything's fine. I think it was really good that we had that debate. Then, in relation to the taximeter negotiations, I will actually give a commitment from up here, because I have heard the Left asking that we saw it in the context of the negotiations that are currently taking place around the institutional laws, and it was actually in my planning that we landed a student distribution agreement first, and that we then committed ourselves in connection with it to start negotiations on institutional laws and taximeters that they then came straight in continuation of each other in reality, and that is because of all sorts of christiansborg technical, in order to be able to start legislation on these incredibly complex things without waiting for the last things to fall into place. There I can see from the course of negotiations that with the things on the table and the input that comes I should not go into that further because we are in the middle of negotiating it is most appropriate that we should end up with a single text of agreement which concerns both things. I'm just gonna say that from here. I know that somehow I am pulling the whole blanket away from this motion for a resolution. I regret this, but of course we have also had to clarify where we were going with it by the government, and we have had debates today, and, overall, it is my opinion that the Left is right that these things should be negotiated jointly with each other or at the same time. So it's just a promise. Then I would say, in relation to where it is that we are going with the debate, that precisely because we are going to start negotiating, I will not go into the specific issues. I don't think the direction is entirely wrong, so I'm actually pretty optimistic that we're gonna get this country something. However, I would like to tell you what the parties behind the agreement on the distribution of pupils have come up with in relation to taximeters, because we have, as it were, already, at least for a number of parties in here, tied us to certain conditions. It is firstly that there must be a solid or robust economic basis for running institutions and maintaining departments throughout the country, and that a better economic foundation must be created to face demographic development with less vintages and, above all, it will support the smaller rural gymnasiums. Secondly, it is necessary to ensure, in particular, that the economic basis for running small institutions is strengthened and, in the case of upper secondary education, that there is also a professional breadth in relation to professional and study courses. It is then that there must continue to be an element of student-dependent grants, that there must continue to be an element of grants supporting pupils' implementation, that there must continue to be a framework for addressing pupils with particular challenges, and that greater budgetary security for the institutions must be created. Then it is proposed in what should then be the new, that there should be a significantly higher activity-independent basic allocation, and that there should be a simplified and more uniform and equal structure for activity dependence in grants, i.e. a considerable simplification in relation to tariffs and tariff differences that exist today, special grants, etc. It is just to say that we have committed ourselves to a number of things in advance, and I think that is something I think we should be able to do. It follows on from the points which the Left is also putting forward here, and I am not very alarmed by the things that the Left is involved with, but I think we should go into the negotiating room to see how we are really going about it. And for those who are not very familiar with the taximeter system and institutional laws, I would say that the reason why it is important there are all kinds of reasons for it is that one of the challenges is that if the dependence of activity becomes very, very large, there will be a great deal of economic uncertainty for the institutions, and then there is an outskirts problem. There are huge differences in running institutions at one end or the other of the country. And then there is an inequality between vocational upper secondary education and general education, which we all have to touch with each other. So I think there are a number of elements that we need to get onto that negotiating table. I look forward to discussing that with you there. And, of course, we have also had regular discussions with the various parties on this matter. So it's a yes to taking a negotiating process around it. Then the motion for a resolution says that we must put forward legislative proposals, and I was just trying to sit over there and count on it. If we were to do so, I would have to ask for an urgent legal commitment, because I would have to go beyond all the deadlines that exist, both on hearings and everything else. Now, of course, the rapporteur of the Left may come up and say that it is all right, but then at the same time the Left will have to give an undertaking to want to land an agreement within the next 24 hours or something similar, otherwise we would not be able to do so again. So it's just to say that that part of this resolution is simply not realistic. In other words, in the context of the negotiation of institutional laws, which are, in parentheses, much less complex than the taximeter, more than 50 annexes have already been drawn up with answers to questions from the rapporteurs. However, it is clear, of course, that if all the rapporteurs in the Chamber say that they do not ask a single question, then it may be that we get there, that we can do it really quickly. However, I would not recommend that, because it is really my experience that all the questions that are being asked and all the inputs that are coming, which produce all the many notes, actually make us ultimately become incredibly smarter and land a place where you can see yourself better in the sector too. So I think we should give it the time it needs, and that is why the time frame of this motion for a resolution is not possible. But thank you for taking it up. I look forward to the negotiations and hope that we will get there with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422145712	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister, and that is from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422145716	Thank you, Minister, and also thank you for the clear commitment that we will now have a joint debate on institutional law and taximeter law. It is news, and I also think it is good that, at the request of the motion for a resolution, we are now getting the Minister to say this in this Chamber, because it means a great deal, and it is also part of the vote on the motion for a resolution. The resolution also states that negotiations must be concluded before the summer break 2022. I hope that they can be, because I think that this is what is needed, because it is important that we clarify what is basically about the economy of the institutions in the future. That is what lies very much in our taximeter systems. However, I do not think that as such I would like to ask any questions, but merely say that if the resolution had been dealt with when it was tabled almost two months ago, I think we could have kept the timetable. But yes, now the time is advanced, but I hope we can make an appointment before the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422145820	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422145821	At that time, on the other hand, I would not have been ready to give a commitment that we could negotiate it, because I just needed to get some more input from the stakeholders, who have had slightly different perceptions of how much to go to the macrons in terms of content. And then I would say that I really see the comment as a commitment from the Left. Right now, I am the only one who knows the government proposal, and that means that I see it as being finished by the summer of this year, as an undertaking from the Left that it will be incredibly easy to dance with in those negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422145853	The second comment rightly came from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422145857	Yes, yes, but the Left is always more ambitious than the Social Democratic Government we currently have. But it is clear that this depends on the content. It also depends on whether the Socialist Government has a willingness to allocate new money also to a taximeter system, because we will not have a new taximeter system if it is just about feeding the dog with its own tail. The Minister will certainly not reply to that today, but will say that it must be left to the negotiations. But I would still like to ask the Minister: how much money does the Minister have for these negotiations? Because that's probably what decides if we can finish it before the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422145928	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422145929	That's the thing about me at the moment. is the only one who knows the government play in this Parliament hall doesn't change anything. So it is quite true that I am not going to reveal this from the platform. But I just want to say that although we will of course get our dances around it, I think we can really go a long way. I think there has been a lot of good ongoing discussions, including with the sector and, incidentally, between the parties, about what challenges there are with the taximeter system. So let's see, I would then think it would be nice to go on a summer holiday and have got the country both the institutional law and the taximeter, but sometimes the negotiations take a little longer than one might think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150003	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. That is how the rapporteur can begin, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Beazley. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150016	Thank you for that, President. One feels a little at a party where one has come a little late, because it seems as if the Minister and the Left have found a solution and created a majority. I still think that there are details that we can benefit from meeting in a negotiating room. It is just to say that there are at least extended hands from both sides. I think it is good if we can now take and lift the rather important debate we have on institutional legislation, including on the student distribution agreement, but also on the taximeter issues. I agree with the Left that there are shortcomings in the current taximeter system, and one of the shortcomings is the one which the Left points to here and which, for example, has made it very difficult for some of the smaller trading colleges in some of the thinner populated areas. It is, of course, in relation to the fact that we have said, as widely politically, that education must be available throughout the country. That is why it would be logical to address these problems, as the Left points out, in a joint debate. I also believe that, with the taximeter system and its complexity in mind, there are several things we should look at and discuss. That is why the motion for a resolution here may be an opportunity for us to give each other a hand in engaging in that discussion and also to try to resolve the problems that exist, including what the Left points out, on the basis of the principles that we laid down with the pupil-sharing agreement, which, among other things, is the case. is to ensure wide geographical supply, to ensure greater basic funding, so as to avoid excessive dependence on activity, but of course also reduce competition between education and training, so that we have healthy cooperation in the sector not to take the pupils apart, but actually to ensure that the young people end up in the place that is best for them. So we will look forward to the examination of the proposal. We do not support this resolution on the part of the Social Democrats, but we support the fact that we are taking up this discussion and resolving some of the problems that the Left is pointing to and some of the others with the taximeter system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150230	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150234	Thank you. After all, I was so nice to the Minister, and I will then go beyond the Socialist rapporteur and, more specifically, zoom in on one of the points. For one thing, the general reform is a matter for us to discuss and negotiate in a local context, but another thing with which the rapporteur himself says that the rapporteur agrees is harmonisation in the case of small hhxes. And here I just have to ask the rapporteur something. When we left the government offices in 2019, a reservation fee was in fact a permanent reservation fee for the taximeter system, which could have long since been achieved also with a broad agreement in the Danish Parliament so that the small hhx's had not lived with a worse economy in the last 3 years than the small stx's. So there was no lack of money, political majority or will. So why is it that the Socialists have not long since solved the part that specifically concerns our small business schools across the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150329	Thank you. Thank you, too, for not taking the same gentleness and gentleness as the Minister. It suits the rapporteur of the Left to go to the macrons. I mean, I think it's like there's a little bit of repetition about this discussion, because there are a lot of things coming out now, which is that when the Left had the majority, there were virtually no limits to what problems had been taken into account but had not just been resolved. And now we have had a social democratic government for a few years, when we know that most people have also had a great deal of speed, both in making agreements, but also in dealing with the pandemic and other things. And then the discussion has to be that we have, as it were, been on the slow side. I don't think so. But I do agree that this is one of the points we need to look at. In fact, that is why less than five minutes ago the Minister promised that it would enter into the negotiations that have started, so that we can get clarification quickly. I think I think that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150428	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150429	Thank you. I believe that the reason why this is happening is that we have now had both one financial law, two financial laws and three financial laws, where we could actually have spent some of the money that was reserved just for this purpose. And an amount of a few and sixty million kroner was also from the agreement we made before the change of government that, together with a taximeter reform and the institutional overhaul, it should be implemented, among other things. to the little hhxes. And that is why I think it is entirely justified that the sector should continue to ask why, on the whole, the part which has not been discussed politically has still not been able to get in place. And I do not think that the rapporteur can just apologize with pandemics and other things. That is why I would like to ask again: why has it not been in place long ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150513	But one might ask: if the Left rapporteur both thinks that the Left had obtained the money and that there was a political majority, why was it even a task that was pushed on to the next government? However, I do not think that is unreasonable either, I would like to say that the sector is pushing. Nor do I think it is unreasonable for these things to be lifted. When we have wanted to discuss it a little bit wider than what this specific resolution is about, it is because the taximeter system also has other elements, too, that are more problematic than what is addressed in this motion for a resolution. And that is why we should have a broader discussion about it. That we would have liked to have had that discussion about the wider taximeter system earlier, yes, I think that is indisputable. We would also have liked to have a student-sharing agreement earlier, if not the process, it might be said, had been in the freezer until several times, because the sector and, by the way, the Ministry and all sorts of others had also been busy with the pandemic. So yes, that is part of the reason why the overall discussion has been delayed, but it should not disappear for that reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150614	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel and the Social Democratic Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150630	Thank you. Today I am a substitute for the rapporteur, who unfortunately could not be here. But there must still be some words from the SF so that people don't miss it, so I'll just read the speech. In the SF we recognise the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left because there is no doubt that changes will have to be made to the taximeter system. The proposers will require the government to equalise the outskirtstaximeter with the building taximeter and the A-fagtaximeter and ensure a level playing field for the institutions. We think it is positive that the proposers will look at the taximeter system, because we need to address the challenges of the current taximeter system, and right now, the pupil distribution agreement means major upheavals for several schools, and this also means, of course, that there must be changes in both subsidies and taximeters. We are all tripping to conclude the current negotiations on the institutional laws so that we can roll up our sleeves and negotiate the taximeter system, and that is something we in the SF are very much looking forward to, and that is something we can hear right on the stairs. It is also a desire to find a solution that can lead to less competition between schools and more long-term stability. How to link up a new taximeter system will be discussed in the forthcoming negotiations. Nor can we support the loose funding proposed by the proposers. It is not enough for the proposers to refer to their own financial framework. When we negotiate the taximeter scheme, we want new money in play. The area generally needs a boost. We cannot therefore vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, but we look forward to sitting at the negotiating table and opening the negotiations in that we also have some very similar ambitions in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150818	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150820	Thank you. I am glad that the SF agrees with us that we should have these taximeter reform negotiations and that it should also be added to the institutional negotiations. However, I was actually called to ask a question on the basis of the comment made by the rapporteur that the funding should be loose. It is not financing; it is financed crown to crown. It was part of the overall scope of the Finance Act for the current year and was part of the Left's financial law priorities. It is so true that the rapporteur's party and other parties have spent it on everything from an Arne pension to increased benefits for unemployed immigrants and other things, and in this way we have different priorities. Therefore, I would just like to say first of all that there is nothing solved in this. It is fully funded because then we have other priorities than those of the Finance Act. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur one thing, because the rapporteur also says that we need new money, as we have pointed out, and we have added 150 million. kr. In. How much new money does SF think it's going into the taximeter negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422150929	Thank you. I understand that there may well be a slight provocation in the way of formulating the Left's funding proposal. However, I am quite convinced that there are a large number of funding proposals which the Left thinks are a good idea and which the SF does not think is a good idea. We therefore fully support the funding that we are helping to add to our signatures when we conclude the agreement on the Finance Act with the government and the other support parties. In fact, I am very proud of many of the things we have already achieved, which have reflected the great ambitions we have on behalf of children and young people, and we will continue to do so. In relation to the specific question of the budget framework, I must leave it in the dark. I am not really fully aware of how much money we are going in and demanding at the negotiating table, but I am sure that we will be wiser when the right rapporteur is also in place in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422151027	Does Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby wish to make a further brief comment? No. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422151041	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for this motion for a resolution. In fact, I would particularly like to thank you for this motion for a resolution, because we in the Radical Left have quite the same wish, as we have said, that we should negotiate institutional legislation and taximeter systems at the same time. We do not think it can be seen in isolation. That is why I am also pleased that the government is now making it very clear that it is a message that has both been heard and wants to respond. As far as the content of this resolution is concerned, there is, of course, something, as others have said, relating to the financing part which may make it difficult for us to vote for it in this form without further ado, if it comes to the vote, what I do not expect it to do, but we would certainly be prepared to look at whether we, for example, are going to vote for it. can land it in a report, and that can still be the case. However, I would like to say that I do indeed expect that we will very soon be called for negotiations on the taximeter systems and that they will have to be run alongside the negotiations on new institutional legislation. As far as the content of equality is concerned, I also agree with the need for clarification. Exactly what is involved in the equality of education and training must be done, but there is clearly a need for clarification, and there is also a need to address the specific challenges that exist, among other things. Compared to the outskirtstaximeter. So thank you for the suggestion. We support the intention, but could also see that we could land it in a report, but I do not expect it to be necessary because I now hear a very clear commitment from the government to convene negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422151223	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422151226	I would like to thank the radical rapporteur for his support and also for the joint pressure that has been put in in relation to having just a few thanks-mechanism negotiations at the same time as negotiations on institutional legislation. The radical rapporteur asks what is in the word equality. Is there in it that we imagine that htx should cost the same as stx, which is significantly different? No, we do not, but it is clear that, for example, if you do. If we have a high-level language subject which we would like to promote, and which we would also like to see added taximeters, i.e. the languages, just as our proposal for a language strategy showed, then we do not think it would be appropriate if a high-level language subject on hhx or htx were paid less economically than for example. on stx. So it is something about also having an approach to the fact that none of our upper secondary secondary educations are worth less than the others. And that is why it is perhaps mostly just a comment than a question to the radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422151326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422151327	Thank you for that clarification. I fully agree with that. In other words, we need clarification and the differences that cannot be explained cannot be defended either, and that is something that we must resolve in the forthcoming negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422151339	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422151351	Thank you. I was just looking at the motion for a resolution once again to check the date and, as others have suggested, I thought: how does this really relate to our debates? But one might say: if Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby's errand was to clarify that we should create a link between the negotiations on institutional legislation and the taximeters, then we have succeeded. I really do not disagree with that. I have probably had the impression that we had to negotiate a great deal with the institutional structure, and before we had to sign what we are only doing figuratively, we had to negotiate the economy and then reconcile it backwards. The method is not so important to me, but I am quite in agreement that there is an obvious link between the institutional structure and the taximeters. So it's okay that we're here. I would also like to say, even though it is material we are debating now, and so we should not dive into the detail, that I have heard for years that there have been complaints from the hhx world where, frankly, one felt disadvantaged financially. In my best opinion they are right that there is a need to adjust the taximeters there; exactly how should I not be able to say, but basically we have to say that there must be a level playing field for the different upper secondary educations that exist. There may be objectively justified differences, but, as I immediately read the Left's proposal, there are some areas where there are no objective reasons for discrimination. Like I said, let's dive into the detail. I do not want to express myself too firmly, but both in relation to what is around the outskirts taximeter and what is in relation to the "a' subjects, I think it is relatively convincingly described as if there are no objective differences here justifying the difference in the taximeter. So I would like to give an undertaking that we will certainly be very happy to look at it. There is, of course, a general view that the whole starting point must be both equality between the different education systems, but also that there are equal conditions for proper education throughout the country. That is why we fully support the general need to do something to cover the smaller educational institutions. It is quite obvious that many of the places where there are already problems and where you are covered by the outskirtstaximeter are demographic changes going beyond the average by the movement that is from country to city. So, in our opinion, there is a need to lift the basic amounts, maybe low-holding aximeters. There's a lot of buttons to screw on. I know that Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby used the expression that we should not feed the dog with its own tail, and we agree, as I have already mentioned earlier today, earlier in the afternoon, that there is a need to add more money to the system. It would be nice if I could just pick up an amount that tripled the 150 million. kr., Left's got it. If we had left it, I wouldn't have said it either. Well, I think we have to take the negotiations and see how far we can go. However, I would once again like to welcome the fact that there seem to be a number of alliance partners in the Chamber who will help to push the Minister on this matter. It is not because we do not think that we have a good relationship with the minister in these negotiations that I sense we have • but if we can reach agreement with others in the Chamber that we are pushing so that we do not get into the situation where we are going to make equality between hhx and stx and to lift the high schools on the outskirts then have to go out and announce to the larger colleges who think they have held that they should now save further, then we are looking at it, because that decision is really important to me together. So thank you for the proposal, and thank you for the invitation, if you can see it that way, to join forces in pushing the Minister together, in terms of bringing more economy into the negotiations, so that we can ensure the best possible result.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422151832	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment. Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422151836	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur for also clearly indicating that you would like to take part in looking at that where there are unfair differences, and there are, of course, both when we look at the outskirtstaximeter for the small hhx's, and when we look at that you only get A-fagstaximeter on stx, but not on the others, and that is how we could take different things. Fortunately, we are now getting the negotiations under way. I really wanted to ask the rapporteur what kind of money it was that Enhedslisten thought we should add new money, but the rapporteur has said that the rapporteur will not respond to that. Instead, I will try to reformulate it in the hope of getting an answer: How much money does Enhedslisten think at least needed to be added, in order to also make a taximeter reform that doesn't mean that the big high schools have to last in order to pay for some of the totally expected adjustments to be made in the taximeter system?
ParlaMint-DK_20220422151923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422151924	I do not have a precise indication of what the questioner would have expected. And it is clear that in those negotiations we also need to discuss how these negotiations are linked to what the government might have in mind for us in relation to the negotiations, and how we can reach out to future financial negotiations, because it is not necessary that the economy should necessarily be established throughout the process of regulating the taximeters. And if there is not enough money in the first place, perhaps we could set a course after there was an escalation of the taximeters over a period of time. But it all belongs in the negotiating room, so I cannot specify a precise amount that we think is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422152015	Thank you in the Enhedslisten rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Gitte Willumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422152030	Thank you for the floor. We are debating a motion for a resolution tabled by the Left seeking to reform the taximeter system for upper secondary education. It is quite obvious that there are some imbalances in the current taximeter system. The economic difference between students of stx, htx and hhx seems quite unreasonable. There are student fees which we know are expensive, for example. music and physics. Of course it has to be paid for. But there are a number of subjects which may cost the same; it could, for example, cost the same. be Danish. And there are other absurdities. Why don't education get the same thing for buildings? Why don't you get the same thing in outskirtstaximeters? A stx in an outskirts town gets a higher outskirts than a hhx why? In our draft budget we have set aside funds for higher taximeters for hhx. We have done so because we find the difference unjustified and unreasonable. We do not want mere redistribution; we want to make the cake bigger. We in the Conservative People's Party want us to sit together and get started with the negotiations on a fairer taximeter system. In order to be able to do that, we need more knowledge and data before we say how to link the final taximeter system. That is why we cannot support the proposal that is on the table here today. We hope and believe that the Minister will call for negotiations so that together we can learn more about the facts and the challenges facing the system today. Against this background, we can together create a new taximeter system that is fair. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422152226	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422152246	Thank you, President. During all the years I have been in Parliament, we have been discussing the various tariffs for the commercial colleges, for the technical colleges and for the general colleges. And over the years something has been done about it, but we are still missing the last chunk, so I hope, of course, that we can sort it out in the course of the negotiations that the Minister has said she wants to deliver on. That is why, of course, we cannot support the resolution as it stands here, but we fully agree with what the Left has written in the resolution. It is almost a V-day, V on the Left, because the Danish People's Party has largely supported or been positive about most of the Left's resolution today, and we are here too. It's important that we sort out the meter and all the wrinkle hooks there are. It's megacomplicated, but also nerdy and very exciting and so crucial to these institutions, because that's what makes them work. So I look forward very much to the negotiations, as the Minister has said we will have in a different way from what she originally proposed. And I'd like to sign for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422152357	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422152402	Thank you for the support from the Danish People's Party, also for the fact that we can now enter into some negotiations where we can then actually get the solutions that have been talked about for a long time. I know that the Danish People's Party, like the Left, has been very concerned that we should have an equality between our small commercial schools and our hhxes, which are located in the country, because the situation they are in is unfair. Therefore, I would just like to sign that the Danish People's Party, like us, has helped to fight that battle, because it means a lot, whether you are in Assens, Tønder or Grindsted or some of the other places where it would make not just small change, but millions in difference if the schools there had been stxs instead. Another issue on which we have also jointly focused in the past is how we strengthen the language courses in our high school sector. After all, we have not written everything in this motion for a resolution. We have proposed that we should have a reform, and there I would just like to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, whether the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party will also take a positive view of the element, which also lies in a taximeter system and favours languages, so that we can strengthen that part in general in our gymnasium sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422152514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422152514-2	Language is suffering, especially German and French. If the economy can help them on their way, it will be good. I'm not sure that's enough, but we'd be happy to look at it. We're open to everything. I don't want to get stuck with this. Then I would just like to make a final comment. One of the first things I met as new teaching rapporteur back in 2011-12 was these taximeter systems. It was a new country for me, so I actually spent a lot of time getting into it and reading that big, thick release about self-government and taximeter that the Ministry had published. It was exciting, but it was also very difficult, and I realized that it's not something you just do with a fingertips. But the good thing about the taximeter system is that here you went from letter economy to business economy. That is to say, it went from the fact that some people had good relations and thus got better funding, to an objectively based economy based on taximeters, and I think we should keep that. It just has to be fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422152618	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. The time has come to give the floor to the rapporteur of the authors of the motion for a resolution. This is Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422152634	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much for your very positive support for our resolution. I would also like to thank the Minister for undertaking here from the Parliament's platform something which the Left, but also a few other parties, has been demanding for a very long time, namely that we can get the taximeter negotiations started first, but also to get them together with the institutional negotiations so that we do not sit and make institutional legislation completely decoupled from the taximeter negotiations. So thank you to the Minister for that part. Now you can't use props from Parliament's platform. At least you can't show them. I shall not do so, but I am sure that the Minister, like myself and a number of the rapporteurs, has received a fine passover up to Easter. We all know what a bag letter looks like, so I imagine that you really don't have to show the prop at all, because we all know what a bag letter looks like inside our heads. Mine was dark blue and light blue, and I think the Minister's was blood reddish and a little brighter red. This letter says, and now I quote: "Geck, geck, geck, our name, it is written in ink; it may be an old law, but do not forget that it is not a joke; for we must not be equal, the hhx-taximeter must rise; loving dot, dot, dot. I think that we all got it as a reminder from the hhx students that they do not just want an Easter egg, they want equality with the taximeter system. And they've wanted that for a long time. After all, it was also part of the negotiations we had left under the VLAK government about a new taximeter system, in which we jointly made an agreement and, in fact, also such a fortification that it was one of the things that had to be dealt with. It's just been a really long time since we made that agreement back in 2019, when at the same time we did the taximeter system review and the institutional review, which, of course, gives us a great deal of groundwork to be able to start negotiations now in earnest. If you print them out, it is several hundred pages of detailed review of the taximeter system and the entire institution image in Denmark. It is a work that was initiated under the VLAK government in the broad political agreement we made together, precisely because we had to have a good foundation for completing these negotiations. And yes, it can be said that much has been delayed because of the covid-19 pandemic, but we cannot continue to have that as an argument for delaying things. There is an urgent need for us to reform our taximeter system. That is also why we have tabled the motion for a resolution. We do not really think that next Easter we should receive credit letters from the hhx students or disappoint them when there is a finance bill. We think we should put action behind words and ensure that the small hhxes also get the justified outskirts in line with our small stxes. And it's not small change if we look at the little hhx's; they're suffering from these crooked conditions. At Tønder Handelsskole, the Blue Gymnasium in Tønder, which is one of these small hhxes we have lying around the country, they are impatient, and they have also run the selection down several laps in deputies. And I understand, because right now they and the other small hhxes across the country are getting almost 15 million. kr. less in outskirtstaximeters than they would have had if they had been stx's. If we take the Blue Gymnasium in Tønder specifically, they got 226 DKK. in outskirts. Had they been the general high school, they would have received 2.7 million. kr. I understand why they're sending us crazy letters and asking why it keeps being like that. So I think, on the Left side, that there are some duties. We have tried to outline them in this resolution. It's about putting our upper secondary educations on an equal footing, both when we look at outskirts, and when we look at building taximeters, where you can have a htx, a stx and a hhx, which of course will also subsequently get the most, depending on which professional rooms you have. But if we take that part away and just look at the building taximeter, it's a big difference, and it's also disproportionate. This means that in a city today there may be two educational institutions that get different building taximeters, just because one is a hhx or htx and that's something is a stx. And we don't think that's fair. These are the imbalances that we have mentioned in the resolution. There is also the bias that lies in the A-fagstaximeters, for example. the special incentive taximeter for the "A' subjects. It can be physics, chemistry, biology, geology or biotechnology that only the stx's can share. On htx you can also read the same subjects, and with the exception of music you do not get the same taximeter supplement. Well, apparently it's either cheaper to train them on htx, or we don't think they're worth as much, or whatever it is that must be the explanation. We know that it is because the taximeter system has knob shot itself along the way. And some of the imbalances were by no means politically intended or appropriate when they were made, but have just arisen along the way. And that is why we need a radical reform of the taximeter system, in which we both get rid of the imbalances and where we also ensure this real equality and also make the adjustments that need to be made. So I am delighted with the support that has been given today and look forward to the negotiations that we must now have, so that we can get rid of the patchwork solutions and small adjustments that have characterised much of the taximeter adjustments in recent years, and have a real new taximeter system that ensures that we get strong education across the country, and which both hold hands under the small institutions, but also provides opportunities for development for the big ones, and which also has some incentive taximeters in relation to what we would like to strengthen further, whatever it is, language, whatever it is, A subjects, whatever it is, that there is also a social cohesion force or other, so that we generally clean up the taximeter system and get a new taximeter system and thus do not need to talk about props on the parliamentary's speaking chair as the sweet gigger letter we all got up to Easter, attached chocolates not least bribery, or whatever it is now from the hhx pupils, but really gets taken care about the problems that we have now. So thank you for your support and I look forward to the debate on behalf of the Left. Thank you to the Minister for also giving an undertaking that we will now have the negotiations, even before the summer recess, which we wrote in our motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422153342	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, also for so much respect for the props. There is no ban on the sharing of chocolate with the President of the Folketing. So I would just like to urge you to do so. I note that no one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220422153412	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will now take place on Monday, 25 April 2022, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
