ParlaMint-DK_20220127100000	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Nicolai Wammen): Bill no. L 108 (Proposal for a law on additional appropriations for the financial year 2021). Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill No. L 111 (Proposal for a law amending the Criminal Code, the Code of Procedure and the Aliens Act. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Mattia Tesfaye): Bill No. L 113 (Proposal for a law amending the Aliens Act, Criminal Code, Act on Active Social Policy, Return Act and various other laws. Minister for the Environment (Lea Wermelin): Bill No. L 114 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Thomas Danielsen (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Susanne Zimmer (FG), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Jens Rohde (KD), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA) and Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 74 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a fair conclusion to 3.g (citizen proposal)). Ellen Trane Nørby (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 75 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the analysis and reform of the overall continuing training system). Stén Knuth (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 76 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution extending the tax exemption for certain self-governing institutions and non-profit institutions and associations). Alex Vanopslagh (LA) and Henrik Dahl (LA): Request no. F 29 (How does the government relate to the dramatic increase in child distrust, and how does the government feel that these have been handled by the government, not least during the corona crisis?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). Members of the Folketing Pernille Vermund (NB) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw Question No 1, by Mr von Wogau, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). F 22 to the Minister for Tax and Climate, Energy and Supply on rising energy prices. The question entered as item 4 of the agenda has now been removed from the agenda and removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127100159	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127100222	The debate is open. The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127100248	Thank you. Today we are dealing with motion for a resolution B 3 which calls on the government to ensure that palliative patients and their relatives are entitled to at least three interviews with a doctor or a health professional who has specialist knowledge in palliation, and that the initiative with a Danish field education in palliative medicine is completed and put into operation by the end of 2021. I would like to start the debate by emphasising that, on the part of the government, we believe that all people should have the right to a dignified end of their lives together with their relatives. And that is why we also agree with what we read as the intention of the proposals here, that is to say that there is a need to strengthen the palliative effort and that the health services must be equipped to take this difficult conversation about the end of life as well. It is particularly important for us that the focus is on the individual patient, the individual needs of the individual relatives, and the wishes you have, at the end of the day. This requires health care to have enhanced skills and knowledge to identify palliative needs. They can be very different from man to man. When we look at the Danish demography, we face demographic challenges. We will have more elderly people with life-threatening diseases, and that will put a lot of pressure on health care, and that will increase the need for palliation. That is why it is good that we have this debate now too. At the same time, we must recognise that we are currently facing challenges with a lack of resources, capacity and health care. The government therefore believes that it is important that the palliative effort is organized most appropriately. The tasks must be solved where the need is and where it gives the most value to the individual patient, the relatives and to the whole of society. Fortunately, it is relatively few patients who have such complex symptoms that they need a specialized palliative effort, i.e. at the hospital or at one of the country's hospices. Most patients will be able to meet their palliative needs through the so-called basic palliative effort, such as: is given by the general practitioner in collaboration with the municipal home care or in a hospital ward where you are hospitalized. If we then introduced a guarantee of the right to at least three interviews, it would, of course, put additional pressure on health care resources, capacity. I can inform you that the Danish Health Authority has considered that it is not technically justified that all patients in palliative courses should be offered a certain number of interviews with a doctor or other health care professional with specialist skills in palliation. This is partly due to the fact that some courses are likely to be carried out at the basic level of competence, i.e. possibly with sparring and supervision from specialised competences. There are also other courses with a need for specialised work, which will probably be able to be carried out in a professionally optimal manner with one or few interviews. According to the Danish Health Authority, it is essential for quality that the interviews are offered systematically and depending on the individual's course of illness and the resources available to each individual. At the same time, anchoring conversations with specialists in palliation can counter the ambition to ensure a dignified end to life, as it will reinforce things in relation to palliation. And the last time is considered a task for the few specialists. Among other things, it can be done. This will lead to palliative needs being identified too late and could also increase inequality in this area. In addition, the proposal does not take into account the individual patient needs of disease cycles. I believe that conversations about the end of life must be possible across healthcare and that all patients and relatives are supported in choosing what is right for them. This should provide better treatment choices and scheduled courses, where the last time is organized according to the patient's individual wishes. It is individual, how often and when in the process there is a need for a conversation with a health care professional. Moreover, the essential thing is to ensure appropriate and adequate needs assessment and visitation for palliation at the appropriate level and that there are sufficient resources and competences to do so. Then I will go to the next part of the proposal, which is about the start of a Danish field education in palliative medicine. The Danish Regions have reported that the Interregional Working Group, which will make recommendations for a Danish field training programme in palliative medicine, has reported to the health directorship of the regions. They did so at a meeting on 18 November last year, and the health board has approved that the regions establish a Danish field education in palliative medicine on the basis of the recommendations of the working group. Danske Regioner has also stated that there is an ambition that the first series of courses will be offered in the autumn of 2022. The target group for the training is initially employees to be trained for field specialists in palliative medicine. However, according to Danske Regioner, there is an ambition that the participation can later be expanded with, for example, a modular approach for students who do not work with specialized palliation, but need a skills increase in basic palliation. It can, for example, be done. be practicing doctors. Based on this information, it is the government's assessment that the work on establishing a Danish field education in palliative medicine is already well on the way with expected roll-out in the near future. That's why I think the work is in good shape. As I said at the outset, we recognise the need to strengthen the palliative effort, but the introduction of a right to at least three conversations does not seem to me to be the way forward, nor does it justify health care. That is why the government cannot vote in favour of the proposal here. If a real difference is to be made and this is to be achieved by the large majority, which does not need a specialized effort, we must raise our eyes to the overall palliative effort across municipalities, general practice and hospitals. Therefore, we propose that the Danish Health Service, as chairman of the National Council for Doctors' Continuing Training, be asked to include palliation in the ongoing review of medical training and to make recommendations on 1: how palliation can be included in relevant clinical specialist training courses, so that more specialists acquire the skills to deal with patients with palliative needs and 2: a national systematic framework for which medical professional training is needed, including in relation to palliation. We also propose that the ongoing work of the regions with a Danish field education in palliative medicine should be considered in the national work on field education, so that their knowledge and experience can be involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101019	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it is from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101023	Thank you. I am, of course, pleased that the Minister agrees with the intention of the motion for a resolution, and what I can then understand makes it difficult for the government to vote in favour is the introduction of a genuine right. And I know that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament is traditionally having a very difficult time with rights. After all, we know this from the whole discussion about the investigation and treatment guarantee: it is something that must be matured in a social democratic soul. I do not quite understand why people feel that way, but I can see that that is the case here too. But the Minister himself says that a systematic approach is needed. There is typically a need for one or a few conversations, and with the argument put forward by the Minister himself, that a systematic approach is needed, why is it that one does not just jump to and say that it is a very good idea that we now ensure that at least three conversations are possible so that one can get answers to the social, spiritual and existential questions that naturally arise in the final phase of life?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101129	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101132	I can completely reject the first, and I would recommend that the rapporteur read up on the history, on who introduced and who implemented the right of investigation. There is obviously something you have completely misunderstood if you believe it about social democracy. On the question of this proposal for a right to three interviews, I would like to say that we have asked Danske Regioner, and they advise against this here. Danske Regioner advises against this, Danish Regionser, who is therefore led by a Leftman, advises against it here. The Health Department doesn't think this is the right way to do it. They believe that the essential thing for quality is that conversations are offered systematically and depending on the individual's course of illness, resources, etc. So should we not try to strengthen our health services in a way that looks at the needs of the individual rather than make such proposals? Otherwise, we can continue to make legislation to give the right to so many conversations in all kinds of situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101236	Mrs. Jane Heitmann, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101238	I think it is a good idea to strengthen health care, but I also think it is a good idea to strengthen the rights of Danish patients. For this is really about everyone having the right to a dignified death, and that everyone should have an influence on how to get out of here the day life runs out. After all, the Danish Health Authority presented a number of recommendations back in 2017. In 2019, the National Audit Office made a massive criticism of the fact that no progress has actually been made in the field of palliation. I would like to ask the Minister for Health: does the Minister not recognize that criticism?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101316	Yes, I do. It was then a criticism that the previous government had not dealt with the situation. That is why I have also explained in my speech some of the elements which are being rolled out, among others. The Danish Regioner and the Danish Health Authority are looking at the entire specialist training and the composition there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101338	Sir. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101340	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Jane Heitmann for putting forward a proposal which will somehow become so obvious. But it's because there's something that doesn't work. So, palliation must consist of four professional skills; but where I come from, Viborg, you have saved the psychologist away, and then you have hired an ergotherapist or something that is cheaper. I think that is deeply, deeply problematic, because that is what makes us have to make some decisions about rights from here, because we have to ensure that people get what they need. Can the Minister not see that this proposal, whether or not you agree with the details in this way, completely affects the problem of people not really getting what they should be entitled to?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101447	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101449	No. I have to say that the subject is important, and I think it is too important for such a proposal here, which is doing well on Twitter, i.e. on 280 characters, but which is doing less well out in reality, where it is much more diverse, more diverse, in relation to every patient with relatives. Every patient has a unique situation. That is why we need to strengthen palliative knowledge and palliative tools throughout our health services, wherever you meet the health care system. It may be with the general practitioner, and it may also be in other places where you are in contact with health care, when you have the diseases that make you approach the end of life. And there could be a fear if you introduce it here, and if we think that we know best here, that is to say that you have to offer three conversations; there is a requirement that there should be here in relation to when it will enter into force and who will then conduct the three conversations? And can that mean that there is actually going to be such an anxiety elsewhere in the health care system, when it is said that some people are doing it? Nobody's gonna make it. It should be everyone's responsibility to intervene here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101554	Sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101556	Well, I simply refuse to believe that someone is taking up this subject in order to have 280 characters on Twitter and drive populism on it. That's because there's something that doesn't work. Well, that's how I choose to believe that the purpose of this proposal is and that it has nothing to do with Twitter. I think that in these debates we should be very careful to accuse each other of such things. I would just like to know whether the Minister will not acknowledge that there are some very fundamental problems that are not being resolved out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101637	Yes, I recognize that, and that is also what my speech was about: what we are doing about it. And there is my suggestion that we listen to professionalism, listen to Danish Regions, listen to the Danish Health Authority. And their clear recommendation to us is that it would be counterproductive that such a proposal would not be good here. It will be clearly better and more rewarding, also more rewarding, in terms of ending the great inequality in health and ensuring that we are there for all patients in all their situations if we strengthen the palliative efforts more generally in health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101714	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101715	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. My many years of experience from a nursing home as a nurse have taught me that death is really difficult to plan, but what makes a huge difference is the possibility of being present and also the certainty that there are enough staff to actually be there. In my young days, no elderly were ever allowed to lie alone, but that is actually the reality today. There are plenty of examples of municipalities where there is only one night shift in home care, and then it becomes really, really difficult to perform a qualified palliative care. That is why I am more in favour of having sufficient staff to take care of the citizens to be taken care of than I am of standards. Some of that, for example. could tackle, of course, was to stop setting standards that say that only nurses, for example, are allowed to deal with the pain of citizens in their own homes, and perhaps also to see that social and health assistants could solve such tasks. What does the Minister think about having enough staff?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101824	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101826	I'm thinking it's worth listening to these experiences, and I'm one hundred percent in agreement. What we can see in these sectors is that it has consequences for everyone, but especially for those of our fellow citizens who do not have the opportunity to shout, who do not have the resources to make use of it if there is such a scheme as is proposed here. What we need is, of course, that there is enough staff resources for it, so you grab people where they are and see them where they are and provide them with advice and help where they are. That must be what is important, and that means that we need to think about this in a multidisciplinary way and also have to include the staff situation in our efforts.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101918	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101919	I therefore agree that it is not one, two, three or five interviews with a doctor who makes the difference here. What makes the difference is, of course, that you can be present and that a citizen is not at risk of being able to take both 2 and 3 hours before there are available staff to come out and help change a base or to provide pain treatment. Otherwise it will not be possible to die worthily in your own home, and in that account a lot of citizens end up dying in a hospital instead. If we want to do this, we also have to give priority to resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127101951	Yes, we do, and that is why I also have to call for us in the Danish Parliament to agree that this is a problem, and I hear from both the blue and the red block and from the middle, that this is something we agree on, so we also have to agree that no matter what you might make of proposals, such as this one. This proposal does not help at all if we are not also ready to finance it and drop off the money that is needed to ensure that employee resources are accompanied and strengthened when we get more tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102025	Liselott Blix, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102027	Thank you very much and thank you for the Minister's speech. I am glad that we are looking at it, and I look forward to seeing what is being offered by the regions and so on, because I am very concerned that something is being done in this area. However, I too, like Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, would perhaps like to draw it a little closer, because we know that a great many people die either in their own homes or in a nearby care centre or rehabilitation centre, and there is not necessarily a doctor coming out, but I did not necessarily read that in the proposal either. Because I also believe that we will be burdening too many doctors if it is always the doctors who have to talk to. But it also says that it may be a health person who has special knowledge in palliation. So how does the minister view how we get the municipalities into this whole setup, in terms of giving the best help and guidance, and that there are also enough staff, but also so that we dress the people who are out in the municipalities so that they can give this help? Well, I've been trained in terminal care myself and been with many dying and there for the next of kin. So you can easily, even if you're not a doctor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102139	Yes, I agree entirely with that. This is a very, very complex issue and, as we mentioned, the needs of each individual are different, and there is a relatively large group that really needs specialized palliative advice and treatment, and then there are others where it has to be said that advice can be given by different health professionals. But it is crucial that you are there and that you are dressed to see the patient and the patient's situation as a human being at the time when you are now meeting the patient. So I totally agree. And I also think it is worth noting that the regions report that they will also offer some courses in this process, and I look forward to discussing this with the parties of the Folketing and with the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102241	Liselott Blix, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102242	My opinion is that you have to build a superstructure on the assistant training so that they can get a special knowledge in palliation. In relation to someone who has been working in this area for 20 years, I would say that because you have a health education, that does not mean that you can talk about death, because it can mean a lot to the individual. That's why it's important that you actually get an education in relation to this. So it has been our wish that we should actually do a special training programme for assistants who work in the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102312	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102313	Well, let's try to discuss that part. I cannot say in detail what my position is on this, it probably requires a little more discussion and a thorough knowledge of the proposal there. But I think, at least as I hear it, that it is a little more in line with what the Danish Health Authority has recommended, namely that we ensure that there is a knowledge of palliation within a wide range of educations. And that is what is crucial for us to get everything lifted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102341	We thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. That is the rapporteur's line. Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102405	Thank you. We have such a tall minister, so I think I'm gonna have to get the platform down a little bit. Thank you for the floor. Thanks to the Left for raising a very, very important conversation about palliation. The question of a dignified end to life is a subject on which we must be able to speak openly, even when it comes to serious illness and pain relief. This is, of course, about the specific treatment, but also about being able to talk about many of the thoughts and concerns that both patients and relatives naturally have in connection with a serious illness. There is no doubt that we will be able to make the effort even better in the future. Palliation has so far been associated with the soothing efforts in the very last period of serious illness until death, but the picture is changing, so that today there is also a greater focus on starting the palliative efforts early to increase the quality of life and support the entire course of treatment and rehabilitation from the start, where many are still expected to be cured of a disease. The purpose of the palliative action is to ensure soothing and supportive treatment, care and care for all who are affected by life-threatening disease. And the palliative effort must focus on increasing patients' quality of life and early detection of the need for treatment and help to achieve a better quality of life throughout the disease cycle. It is very important that both patients and relatives not only receive treatment, but also talk to doctors and health professionals about their concerns. Many patients live with a life-threatening disease, but not all patients are alike. In 2021, the Danish Health Authority made recommendations for the palliative effort to strengthen efforts that are now being implemented in regions and municipalities and in general practice. Here it is recommended that, in order to be able to organise an individual response at least, assessments are made of the palliative need when diagnosis is made, by sector transitions, by worsening the disease and by changes in e.g. one's personal social situation. It is not recommended that there should be a certain number of conversations. So when the Left is just proposing to legislate on it, that is to say that there is, for example, that. must be at least three interviews with a doctor or health care professional, it is not a requirement which is justified by the medical profession. It may also be in our optics to go out a road similar to what we know, which is called one size fit all, where some patients really need less and some need more. That is why we do not believe that we should legislate on a minimum standard of three parliamentary talks. What is crucial is that we focus our efforts on the individual patient. This requires the availability of the necessary resources, and not least that there are doctors and healthcare professionals who have knowledge of palliation and can identify the needs of patients and relatives. I very, very much agree with the Left that there must be better training opportunities in palliative medicine. There is also a Nordic education, but we are also pleased in the Social Democratic Party that Danske Regionser expects a working group to be actually ready with recommendations for a Danish supplement to the Nordic education, hopefully already here in 2022. But we also need to look at how we can think about palliation in even more places in education. We are certainly very open to this, and we would like, as the Minister also said, to see that it is the specialist expertise of the National Council for Doctors' Continuing Training that makes recommendations on how palliation can also be included in specialist training courses, so that more doctors have the skills to deal with patients with palliative needs, and that a national systematic framework is drawn up for which medical training courses are needed, including in relation to palliation. Social democracy cannot vote in favour of the proposal, as is clear from the above, but we very much agree with the Left that palliation is a crucial factor for the individual's treatment and we agree that it is important to strengthen efforts to train doctors and health professionals in the field of palliation. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102814	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102817	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and I am actually pleased to hear the rapporteur say that palliation is a crucial factor. Thank you. In fact, I was a little worried earlier when I heard the Minister completely disrespectfully accusing the Left, another party in the Folketing, of making a proposal of this nature because it looks good on Twitter. I just have to say that I am glad that it is not an expression of the attitude of the whole Social Democrat Party that one is so nasty and embarrassing. I would like to ask whether the Socialists do not think it is essential that we get more systematic and that we have more geographical equality, so that, whether you are dying in Hirtshals or in Helsingør, you are entitled to leave life with dignity and influence on how to get out of here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102916	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102917	As the Minister also said, we are very concerned that the palliative effort is up to date and that it works as it should, and I think we have a lot to learn. We are looking into a future with more elderly people, as the Minister also said, and we are constantly going to have to keep the snout in our tracks and look at: is this the right effort we are making? Are we dressed all the way around in our health care? So I cannot agree more that it is of course essential that we have a high degree of professionalism in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102951	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127102952	Yes, now I am actually wondering why the Socialist rapporteur here is not just answering the question, namely systematic and geographical inequality. For how will the Social Democrats ensure that there is exactly systematic about the last difficult conversation? How will the Social Democrats ensure that no matter where you live in Denmark, you will have that conversation? For the reality out there is that there is a very big difference between which nursing homes take the last difficult conversation, which hospitals do it and how to do it. How do we ensure that everyone gets out of life well?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127103028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127103029	In other words, 100% guarantees can never be given, but it is clear that today's debate and the other discussions which the rapporteur and I have had over time on this subject mean that I think we all have a clue when, for example, we are all involved. must have developed it. Now we are facing a new health reform, and we are about to have to make a new law on the elderly, and there are a lot of these very existential conversations that we are going to have to take with each other. Systematic is a good thing, but I also have some doubts as to what the rapporteur thinks when the rapporteur says'systematic'. If these are three conversations, then I am not sure that this is the system, for example. would be in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127103107	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we have come to Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127103130	One thing is certain in life, and that is that we all have to die, and yet death is something we rarely talk about. It's taboo. But we all have to die, and hopefully we all have to do it in a dignified way, and we in the Danish People's Party think this is incredibly important, and that is why at least as a health rapporteur I have been working on this topic for all the years I have been here. We have also made changes to our legislation. That is, for example, the case. Section 21 of the Health Act. One and two, you can cancel help and get medicine so you can sleep in. This applies to the provision for future administrators, which is about making some of their relatives a future agent, who can also decide if you become incompetent yourself. We also made what is today called the treatment testament, so that you can say in advance how you want to be treated if it is that at some point you also become incompetent. And the last thing in the line that the Danish People's Party has stood for is precisely one of the things that has been mentioned in the press at the moment, namely that you can say no to revival, because it must be the individual who has the right of self-determination in relation to how to get out of here. And then we must also organise society in such a way as to ensure that it can be done properly. Cicely Saunders founded the idea of palliative action. She believed that if a person could not be cured of his illness, there had to be other ways of alleviating, and that was to relieve with care, love and effective medicine. That is why we also have professional recommendations in Denmark. We have hospices, we have outgoing palliative teams, but the way to do it is also very fragmented. Out in home care, as I mentioned from my place, we have a lot of people who want to die in their own homes and may want to, because they have small children or big children who can't just come by the hospice every day. In places such as rehabilitation centers and nursing homes, as we have done in Greve Municipality, some rooms have been set up where there is room for relatives, so that they can be there and say goodbye. And why would you do that? After the National Audit Office had carried out their study of the area, we could see that there was an enormous difference between who was given the palliative treatment that was needed. That treatment depends very much on what diagnosis you have or where you live or what resources you have to demand it. And there is help of few if you talk to the right people. In the municipalities you can apply for leave, you can get various medical package solutions, preparations etc. to relieve and help one in the last time, but there is just no systematics in it. I would like to see a national action plan in this area. I love national action plans, because with them we will have it all looked through, and I do not just want us to have more doctors trained in palliation. So we support the proposal, I would just like to say to the rapporteur of the Left, but it is not only because we want to push for more people to get that education, it is just as much because they have to learn it in the ranks, so that we have more nurses who have the skills in palliation, and healthcare professionals, both social and health workers and social and health assistants, and many others, because it is just not easy to talk about death, as I started saying. I was on a course in how to look after dying citizens in my own home, and there I could see that half of those who were on the course collapsed when they had to talk about death, because there was something hidden in relation to their own experiences: the death of the parents and ugly experiences with people having suffered, that is, something they had to work on, so that they could talk to other people about death. That is why I believe that we must ensure that there are competences all around. So when the Left suggests this, it's a little bit of it, and I read it so that it's not just doctors who should have a conversation. I am not so concerned about whether these are three conversations, and I have also said that to the rapporteur, perhaps, is such a little bob bob, isn't it? In other words, some people need more conversations, others need fewer, but in order to help push for something to happen in this area, we support the proposal. But we would like to see a whole plan drawn up in this area so that they can all, no matter what they fail or where they live, receive palliative treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127103636	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127103639	Thank you. I would really like to thank Mrs Liselot Blixt for the enormous commitment of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to this issue. I would also like to say here that in the years to come I have been sitting in the Folketing, it has really been a pleasure to work together. The rapporteur is committed and knowledgeable and has, of course, a vision that goes a long way. So thank you for that. I am very pleased that the rapporteur has just mentioned competences. For it is clear that it is not only doctors who must have the palliative skills. We know, among other things. from the Danish Society for Palliative Medicine, that doctors, once they have been on the training courses, in this case in the Nordic context, because that is what we have, are very good at sharing their knowledge, so that this can also be propagated in home care, where there is a great need for better skills. So it's not a question, it's just a recognition from here. Thank you for addressing it and also thank you for supporting the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127103744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127103745	That is wonderful and thanks for it, because cooperation is good, and that is also why we must be involved in pushing for it, because everyone deserves a worthy death and that we are talking about it and that it is not a taboo when we talk about how we want to get out of here. I think that's really important and probably the most important thing in this. And I fully agree that doctors have some very good skills. I've talked to a lot of people who've gone to get this special education, and we need more people who get that education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127103813	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we can welcome Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127103824	Thank you to the Left for presenting the proposal and thus also giving the ball the opportunity to an important debate on palliation. I share the desire to improve palliation. The last time is important, and so it requires skilled and competent staff enough. But it is also certainly easiest to talk about death when it is still away at a good distance. It'll be harder as the time approaches where we're going from here. It is my experience, both as a professional and in my personal meeting, that death cannot be put on a formal basis. That is why I also find it incredibly difficult with standards. For example, we already have standards that patients should be asked about their wishes at cardiac arrest when they are going to receive treatment in hospital. I know from experience that for some patients it can feel both very disturbing and frankly also sometimes very awkward. People are different, and therefore there will also be a great difference in when a seriously ill citizen needs to talk about the end of life. Some prefer to talk to their loved ones, others prefer to talk to a healthcare professional in whom they trust, and others, in turn, do not want to talk about it at all, but just let what happens that happens to all of us anyway. I agree with the proposers that we can and we must be better at palliation even much better. It is important to me that both doctors and other health professionals are present and ready to take care of both the physical and mental care of dying citizens. For me, it is important that when a citizen wants to die in his own home, he should not risk having to wait hours for pain treatment or other necessary care. This is why it is no use for some municipalities to have a principle that, for example, they do not. only nurses are allowed to carry out the pain treatment. This task can be carried out with benefit by skilled social and health assistants who are often responsible for care, and especially when we have training in palliation. It is no use that there is only one night shift at work in a municipality, if at the same time you are also responsible for a terminal citizen. It goes without saying that it will mean waiting time, time that you do not have. Returning to the right of conversation, I would like to say that in the same way it is my experience that these conversations can rarely be planned in advance, but that they require a high degree of confidentiality and competent healthcare professionals who are ready to be present at the right time. SF is not going to vote for more standardisation, but we share the desire to improve the quality of palliation and also to give health professionals much better opportunities to act in exactly the way that is needed, at exactly the time when the dying citizen needs it. I say hello from the Enhedslisten and say that they share the SF's position.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127104136	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127104139	Thank you for that, and thank you to the SF rapporteur for at least sharing the intention behind the proposal if I interpret what was said correctly. What is the challenge today is that too many people do not have the necessary conversation. There is a very large difference in how to approach it in the municipalities. Studies show that the people who actually get the conversation with a person who knows something about palliation live a better life the last time of life. Does the SF rapporteur not think that we should give all people the opportunity to have a conversation? You can say yes or no to a conversation. Does the SF rapporteur not think that all people should have the opportunity to live the best possible life the last part of life, and if a conversation can help it along the way, is it not a flexible way to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127104240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127104241	I think that patients should always have the right to talk to the healthcare professional who knows something about their situation, and I actually think that patients do. But I also know that it is very different how patients experience the need to talk a lot about death. In fact, some patients have a great need to keep talking about life. And then we just know that it's a little easier for us to talk about this when we've died nicely from a distance than it is when it gets really close, and that's why reality is also • and it's so my experience that the situations, after all, can be incredibly different. But what makes a difference is that there are some who are there and who reach out and who take the conversation at exactly the right time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127104337	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127104339	On the left side, then, we fully recognise the right to diversity, for death is not one size fits all, and there will be no right to three conversations either, because there will be a difference between the time when you want to use the law. Some will say yes, and others will say no. But does the SF's rapporteur not think that everyone should have the opportunity to leave life calmly and calmly, to have had the talk of spiritual, existential or social questions, to know what will become of my relatives, and what will become of everything around me the day that I am not here anymore?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127104414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127104416	Well, in the ideal world, many would think that is how they want it to happen, but in practice there are a lot of people who think it is difficult and for whom it would be a great taboo to get started. Experience also shows that the relational means a great deal, so that the patient has the opportunity to choose to make a difference. My own mother chose a social and health assistant, whom she trusted, and who understood that it was a good idea to let the door into the bedroom so that she didn't have to have this conversation while the next of kin had to listen to it, because it was hers that we are just different, and so there has to be room for that. So no more formulas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127104457	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Mrs Christina Thorholm, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127104513	Everyone has the right to a dignified death, and the last part of life must be done in a calm environment with people who have professional skills to help with a dignified end to life. It is also at the heart of the Radical Left. However, the proposal here is to ensure that more terminal patients experience a dignified conclusion, among other things. through the right to hold at least three interviews with a doctor or other healthcare professional who has specialist knowledge of palliation. That is what we are going to relate mainly to. We do not support detailed regulation and we believe that this should be done more in dialogue between patients, professionals and doctors. According to the Danish Health Authority, it is not technically justified that everyone should be offered a certain number of interviews with a doctor or other health care professional with specialist skills in palliation. It is essential to ensure that appropriate and adequate needs assessments of visitation and palliation are carried out at the right level and with the right competences. That with the three interviews with a doctor will push capacity, and we believe that capacity should be used where it gives the most value. The conversation with the individual in the daily life of the nursing home or home care, which will often be discussed, must take place where there is a relationship where there is a closeness. And then we can talk about documentation practice, because it is here that health workers have to prove that there have been these conversations so that we ensure that there is that attention. We are talking in other contexts about national quality plans for the efforts of people with, among others, Psychic disorders or cryonics, because we believe that whether you live in Hellerup or in Holstebro, there must be certainty that you get the right treatment at the professional level recommended to the Danish Health Authority. We see, of course, that there are challenges in ensuring a uniform quality, and in this context we may also have to look at national rights in relation to palliation. We are committed to strengthening efforts to ensure that the palliative training of doctors corresponding to the Nordic education is rolled out in Denmark, and we have understood that will happen here from 2022. As both the Minister for Health and the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals have explained, the palliative effort must be more involved in the training of doctors, because there is a lack of knowledge. Then we also believe that a dignified death is about the right not to die alone, and we would like to continue with the efforts of the Red Cross to ensure that there is a person present, that there are some close ones, because it is simply not worthy of dying alone. However, thank you to the Left for having tabled the proposal and we would like to continue working on ensuring the quality of the palliative effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127104850	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127104852	Thank you. I am actually a little surprised to hear such real systemal speech from the Radical Left. Perhaps I have always been a little naive, thinking that the Radical Left was on the side of the citizen as well. But what I am hearing here from the Radical Left is such a lot of system barriers: Uh, something is happening with the doctors, and it is not so good if we train more, because then we push the competences. I have to ask whether the rapporteur has read the proposal. Because it says precisely that doctors must be trained in this, and it also says that the right to three interviews must be phased in over a few years. Because we fully acknowledge in the Left that there is a huge lack of competence out there. And if you look at it in isolation with the doctors, there are all-long waiting lists for Danish doctors to come up with the Nordic education. So there's a desire for what you want to do here. So why not just jump on and acknowledge it and say: it is fantastic that doctors want to be trained in palliation, so let us speed it up and let us have those conversations out there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127104956	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127104958	But that is exactly what we are saying yes to, so yes to more doctors being trained. It's started, it gets started here in 2022, in Denmark. Because we have a backlog; we fully acknowledge that. In the wording of the proposal, I think that with the right to three talks it is very much a system approach, because you must have the number of conversations you need. It is as I understand it, as when you are admitted to nursing homes today, that there is to be a conversation about the final phase of life. So as to whether there is attention to it, one can discuss whether it is always done. But this is a deliberate effort, and we are talking more into a right than a recommendation, are we not?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127105051	Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127105053	I fully agree that the Left wants a right. And why do we do that? We do that because these difficult conversations about death, about a worthy death, about how to get the best out of here, aren't taken out there. After all, the National Audit Office has pointed out in its report that there are challenges in the field of palliation; despite the best intentions on recommendations and all sorts of things from the Danish Health Authority, nothing has happened. What I am just hearing from the Radical Left is, in fact, a no thank you to everything, and I am surprised that people are not here on the side of the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127105125	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127105127	We are on the side of the citizens. And that Jane Heitmann can't hear that we're saying yes, I'm sorry. We can continue the dialogue on this, because that is certainly not what comes out of my mouth; that must be what the ears hear. I have a responsibility to have a dialogue on this, because it is essential for me, as rapporteur in this area, to indicate that we are on the side of the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127105155	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to the Conservatives. Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127105213	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much to the Left for raising this very important debate. We Conservatives will support the proposal because there is a need to increase professionalism in the field of palliation. We have a lot of good offers in the regions, but we have certainly not yet achieved our goal. Conservatives in the then County Council in North Jutland were driving in 1998 to establish the first hospice in North Jutland. Since then, there have been more people around the country, but there is also a need for more seats, because in fact there are also many who do not get to hospice, even if they have a desire to do so. But there are also many other good offers, such as palletiton sections in hospitals and palliative teams anchored in the regions, and finally there are also municipal offers where basic palliation is offered. But there is a need to ensure a higher level of professionalism to ensure a dignified end to life for all dying. That is why, of course, more doctors specialising in palliation must also be trained, which can raise the standard wherever there is dying. It is complex, and there are many different situations • there may be cancerous children, dying relatives, dying with resourceful families, mentally ill dying, long - term cancer and many other situations. We are responsible for ensuring that there is an offer of a dignified end to life all the places where it takes place. We support the proposal and we have also noted that the proposer has assigned a lump sum of 20 million. kr., and it can also be accommodated within our own financial bill. So there must be support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127105416	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127105419	I would just like to thank the rapporteur for the positive reception of the proposal and also thank him for just mentioning that it is not free of charge and that the proposal here is funded. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127105431	There are no more brief comments, which is why we can go further in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127105457	We're all gonna die. That was said up here from the platform just now, and that is true. We all have to do that sooner or later, preferably later, I think most of us are thinking. And when we have this debate, which is extremely important, it is also very important to remember the nuances. When I have taught Danish, I have read in almost all the classes I have had, because it is just about death, how to deal with death, and what happens after death, all the thoughts children can share when they experience losing. It could be parents, grandparents or great-grandparents... all these thoughts. And when we talk about what is called palliation, which basically means relief, it can be a lot of things, and I also think there are more who have been talking about it from up here. For one thing, there must be a medical profession, some that can help you to be physically relieved if you are in severe pain, but it is just as much about the physical closeness, the care and the love that you also need, and all the questions I think you have. When I was preparing for this, I was wondering how I really would feel if it were me. For one thing, if you are an old man who has lived a long life, full of days, and who may even be looking forward to coming from here. I remember my own grandmother always saying she missed my grandfather so much. She was excited, and she was ready. But if you are dying and you have little children and life runs out all too soon, I think there will also be a whole lot of other things that you need to be able to talk about in order to be relieved. It is not only the physical relief; it is also the psychic relief. There must be room for you to be afraid and ask questions. There must be some people who can pick one up, and it was mentioned here earlier with many different skills, and I will not even put figures on and say only four, because there may be many professional skills inside of this. Or maybe you in the families just want to take care of your own and take these hard talk, 'cause it's so hard. I think it is very good that this motion for a resolution is being tabled and, regardless of what, I very much hope that we may be able to land on a report where we can meet to get at least a little push on for this. Because this is a crazyly important area, and it will be extremely individual how to be guaranteed in the past, whether you are a child or, unfortunately, we are also experiencing children who die or, for that matter, an elderly person, because of course older people can also be afraid and have all these questions. So it's so different, and when we talk about this, it's important to remember that palliation that we're discussing right now means relief, and relief can be extremely many different things. So thank you so much for bringing this up. It has also put a lot of thoughts into my mind and a lot of reflections, and, as I said, I very much hope, when there is not a majority, that we may then be able to land a report with all the things we actually agree on, because it is also clear that it is not everything that works equally well, and we all agree that when one day we go from here, hopefully there is a long time, it must also be dignified and proper, and that will be very, very individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127105855	Thank you. Mrs Jane Heitmann with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127105859	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very empathetic speech, and also for extending the concept of palliation a little. I can supplement with a little story from my own life. When I was very young, I studied philosophy at the university, and in one of the very first lessons we were given the task that each of us had to describe our own death and we had to describe our own funeral. At that time I thought it was something abstract, but as the years have passed and it somehow draws closer, I would say that it is a thought exercise that I have returned to many times in life. It just says something about that it can really be a snare to the soul to think some thoughts, but also to say it out loud. So I would just like to again sign up to the rapporteur for an empathetic speech and also to spread out the concept of palliation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127105950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127105952	Thank you so much. I think it's important. That is brave of the rapporteur. I still have a very, very hard time talking about this to be completely honest. But there are also many beautiful things about death. Death can also be welcome, and death can also be demystified if you have space and space to talk about it. And I must be honest and say that I still find it difficult to read aloud from the Lion Heart Brothers, because I too am very touched by it. I also remember that when my grandmother died, I thought it was so good that the employees who were at the nursing home where she lived at the end, and where she was really happy, opened the window so that the soul could fly away. I thought that was so fine, so death can also be beautiful. But it's really hard, and there's gotta be space and space.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127110042	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127110053	This Parliament is so much better than its reputation. I think we can make that clear today when we hear the debate that has taken place on this proposal. I think it is extremely stimulating that you can enter the Chamber and have the very firm position that this is the most obvious proposal you can imagine at all, and I said this to Mrs Jane Heitmann, and then you hear so many talented people and their speeches • and I would say to Mrs Kirsten Normann that what was delivered from the SF up here from the platform was quite awesome as a reminder of your perception and which makes you ask the question and must also do exactly what Mrs Jane Heitmann is proposing? I very much agree with Mrs Mette Thiesen that this is also a courageous proposal, because it is extremely difficult to talk about. We also have to discuss something that we are discussing far too little when discussing health, namely that the palliative effort is perhaps often put in place too late, because we are very busy prolonging life so much that we can sometimes discuss whether or not we in our health care sometimes prolong death instead of prolonging life. I mean, all those hard discussions are gonna get into this. What I want to say about that is that I really, really have a lot of sympathy for this proposal. I also think that there are some problems and, as I said in my question to the Minister for Health, we have a problem in that way saving some of what we have adopted is a natural part of this treatment away. And that's what we're experiencing. Mrs Kirsten Normann is right about this: no matter how we turn it around, we come in and talk about the economy, and we come in and discuss the structural financing of our health care and our welfare society. It should gradually be obvious to most that that funding of insufficient. There is no point in us continuing here from the speaking chair of the Folketing to convince the people that we can get it all by half. We can't. The better we stay in health care, the more money it costs. It can't be any different. We all have to deal with this reality, whether we have an opinion on whether it is more expensive to be a Dane or not, or what other dogmas we draw down on things. And it is not because I want to stand here and be polemical, because it would be inappropriate in this discussion, but it is simply to say that we need to have a wider discussion of it. That is why I am very much on Mrs Mette Thiesen's side when she proposes that we may have to make a report that can spread this out a little more. I am very much in favour of the proposal because I think it is necessary for us to have this discussion, and something needs to be done. But I am very unsure, having heard these many talented speakers, whether that is exactly the right thing to do. That is why I simply have to admit that so far I have to have baked it a little finished in my head and therefore cannot say at this stage what we are going to vote quite concretely. I am sorry, but that is how it is when there are colleagues who allow themselves to make one a little bit wiser. And you can't be familiar with that, but thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127110503	There is a brief comment on Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127110506	Thank you. Life is often and often, sir. Jens Rohde, a little for and against, and sometimes it can be hard to see where to place yourself. And there it is up to everyone, whether you are a politician or not, to feel in the heart. Is each of us entitled to a dignified death? Is it something that we, as a society, must support: that each one of us is settled and leaves life quietly in the soul, or whether things stand in every direction? That is really the task that each of us has when we discuss palliation here in a broad circle. So my call is just to Mr. Jens Rohde and the Christian Democrats: Feel in your Christian heart.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127110601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127110602	But I would actually say that I do, and I tried to unfold that, because the question asked by Mrs Jane Heitmann is only one answer: yes. Then the question is: How best do we ensure it? And this is where I've allowed myself to listen to arguments that there may be other ways to do it than this specific way. And I have deliberately not rejected the proposal, on the contrary. I didn't say what we were voting either. But I simply have to, as I say, put the arguments that have come up in my own head to ensure that what we are doing from here is also the right thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127110650	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127110652	It's an honest matter to be in doubt, sir. Jens Rohde. Go home and feel in your heart. And thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127110700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127110701	I will. But I must also bear in mind that if the two things do not talk together, you risk doing the wrong things, and I think that is far too serious for that. However, I would like to thank you once again for the proposal, because it is a very important discussion, which I hope can also be extended further.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127110724	Thanks to Jens Rohde. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127110741	Thank you for that, President. Most of us have a desire to leave this world in a peaceful and dignified way, in a way that we ourselves have influence on. Unfortunately, this is far too rare today. One has no influence on how or in what framework the last time should be lived. It should of course be the case that if you have a life-threatening diagnosis or are a terminal in the latter part of your life, you automatically have the right to conversation with a health care professional who has a special knowledge in palliation or soothing care. Because in the wake of a serious diagnosis often follow questions of both existential, spiritual, practical or social character. And the older we get, the closer to moving issues related to death • like...: Am I going to live in a pain hell, or how can I best prepare for the inevitable? That's perfectly understandable. The truth is that not everyone gets the dialogue with their immediate relatives in time, experiences sufficient care, or is met by staff with sufficient and necessary professional knowledge and skills to ensure a dignified and peaceful end to life. We know that if you strengthen the palliative or soothing effort, more will experience increased quality of life and better life at all in the last few days. That's not so strange. In order to talk about the great existential or spiritual questions, to put the fear or anxiety about what will become of your relatives, when you are not here anymore, can be a snare to the soul, and it can help to create the necessary calm and clarification. The question then is how you want the last time to be. It is, of course, individual, but studies show that many of us want to die in our own homes. But the image of reality does not live up to that desire. For it is only 23 per cent who die in their own homes, while the vast majority of us die in a hospital, a nursing home or a hospice. We in the Left believe that we can do better. The solution lies within the area of palliative medicine. Here health professionals are trained in the difficult conversation, in how to set it in motion, while at the same time the staff have knowledge of how to perform the soothing care, so among other things. The desire to remain on the basis of the past has a better chance of being met. But in Denmark we lack doctors with high expertise in the palliative soothing medicine. In 2017, the Danish Health Authority presented recommendations on how to strengthen the palliative effort, and that was good, but at the end of 2019 the National Audit Office pointed out that there has been little progress. There has been criticism both of the lack of equality in access to palliation for different disease groups and of the geographical inequality in the offers of palliative treatment. We have to take this seriously. It must not be the postal number that determines which care you receive the last part of your life, and surely there must be no difference between you dying from a cancer diagnosis or a diagnosis. But that is the case today, unfortunately. Whatever diagnosis you must receive treatment, relief and care of high quality. In fact, I am delighted that we in the Danish Parliament, with the reserve of rates, agree to allocate funds to a strengthened palliative effort for some elderly and vulnerable citizens, but there is much more to be done. With the motion for a resolution here, we in the Left want to ensure a significant boost for all groups of diagnosis. We suggest we get 100 more doctors trained in palliative medicine. And that will be a significant boost compared to the approx. 50 doctors, who are currently specialist in the field but are primarily working on hospice. Palliation with a high level of professionalism must also go out to doctors in general practice and out to local authorities' offers, so that citizens on e.g. nursing homes experience that you can take the conversation about the last part of life with a health care professional who actually has the necessary professional knowledge. Subject area specialists, once trained, will be able to share knowledge with other professional groups. And if we are to reach the goal, and if we are to raise the level of education among Danish doctors, we must have a Danish version of the joint Nordic education where Danish doctors are today trained in palliative medicine. Today, Denmark has eight places on the joint Nordic education at its disposal every two years. There are long waiting lists for the palliation training, so yes, the doctors are ready. It is quite clear that the eight places on joint Nordic education are far from reaching the needs that we have today and the increased needs that we expect there to be in the future when we grow older. There is, of course, an initiative about a Danish education which the Minister also spoke about, but frankly, Minister, it is urgent to get started. By 2030 we will be 59%. more than 80 years. The demand for trained staff will therefore increase considerably within a short period of time, and when we in the Left want to give to all citizens who have incurable, life-threatening illness a right under the law to three interviews with a health professional who has specialist knowledge in palliation, it is because we know that meeting trained staff promises the quality of life, even in the last difficult time, and nobody here should be in any doubt that we on the Left are on the side of the citizens. In other words, just to sum up: the Left wants more people to experience a dignified and clarified end of life, and that more people have their desire to die at home fulfilled, and if more people are to experience a dignified end of life, for example. In the well-known domestic framework, more skilled personnel are required. The Left specifically proposes a Danish education and a boost of 100 palliatively trained doctors. In addition, we in the Left also want all dying patients to be entitled to three interviews with a health care professional who has knowledge of palliation. I have listened to the debate here, and I would like to thank you for all the comments, both from those who support our motion for a resolution, but also from those who have reservations. I hope that in another context we can continue the absolutely necessary and important debate, and I have also listened to everyone stressing the importance of discussing palliation, discussing death, getting rid of the taboo that death is unfortunately in Danish society. So I am responding to discussions under a different heading and look forward to the vote in this Chamber, and there you have the opportunity to vote with both the heart and the brain, as Mr. Jens Rohde wanted to see you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127111530	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127111544	The debate is open. The Minister for Home Affairs and Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127111605	Thank you for that, President. The Danish People's Party has retabled a proposal requiring the government to submit legislative proposals before the end of the parliamentary year that citizens can demand binding municipal referendums. According to the proposal, citizens must be able to demand a binding municipal vote on a matter decided by the municipal council if a number of signatures are collected within a number of days or months and, similarly, citizens must be able to demand a binding municipal referendum on a municipal matter which the municipal council has not dealt with. The aim of the proposal is to increase local citizen involvement and thus strengthen local democracy. It is certainly a worthwhile purpose to strengthen local democracy, which the government supports, but the government does not agree that it is the right tool to strengthen local democracy, and that is why, unfortunately, we cannot support this resolution. As the rules are today, a majority of the municipal council may decide to print and hold an indicative or binding municipal referendum. The possibility for the municipal council to issue a binding municipal referendum was introduced by law in 2018, when it was adopted by a broad majority here in the Folketing. The current rules provide for the possibility of involving citizens in major municipal cases if a majority of the municipal council considers this to be appropriate. None of the municipalities have yet made use of the possibility of holding a binding referendum, but the possibility is there, and that is a good thing. In Denmark we have a representative democracy, both in the municipalities, in the regions and here in the Folketing, where citizens choose representatives to make ongoing political decisions. The municipal council takes the political decisions from the overall point of view, what is best for the citizens of the municipality, including in the long term, and with the arrangement proposed by the resolution, an element of direct democracy is introduced. This allows citizens to have more direct influence on decisions taken in their local area. It may be a tool for greater democratic engagement among citizens, but it will of course also have a number of consequences for representative democracy at the same time. With the proposed system, it will be left to a small group of voters who are not necessarily representative of the electorate in the municipality to decide which municipal cases are to be put to a referendum and there is a risk that referendums on the initiative of the citizens will require the municipal council to implement decisions that interfere with the municipal council's long-term political decisions and priorities. There is a risk that the municipal council will be prevented from taking decisions which are unpopular but which the municipal council will have to take on because they are necessary in the political priority or that there will be a fear of a type of unpopular decision. It can, for example, be done. be that the municipal council has decided to implement a concrete saving in order to release financial resources to improve the level of service in the care of the elderly. Here one can imagine that more resourceful citizens have an interest in maintaining the school in the local area, preventing the decision of the municipal council at the expense of the weaker citizens of the municipality, who may not have the same energy to start a petition. Another challenge of the proposed scheme is that it may entail a significant financial and administrative burden for municipalities if a larger number of municipal referendums are to be held. A referendum is something important and it is something serious. It can override the turnout, even in relation to other electoral acts, if it becomes something that one votes on that becomes trivial. That is why the government's position is that, overall, the disadvantages overshadow the benefits that the proposal will naturally bring in local democracy. As I have mentioned, we have representative democracy in Denmark, also in the municipalities. Every four years, citizens have the opportunity to influence who is going to make political decisions in their municipality in both larger and smaller cases, and the proposal we are dealing with today may undermine representative democracy. As the rules are today, any member of a municipal council may request that a particular issue be dealt with by the municipal council and all citizens may contact a municipal council member if they wish to have a specific case on the agenda. If that happens, it is a good thing, and if it does not happen, it may also be because sometimes things are too small to be dealt with in a referendum at least. In addition, in several municipalities, citizens are given the opportunity to create citizens' proposals which the municipal council is considering if there are a sufficient number of citizens in the municipality who vote in favour of the proposal. As I said, the government supports the purpose behind this, precisely to strengthen local democracy, but we believe it should be done within the existing legislative framework. There is a possibility of both indicative and binding referendums, so the government cannot support this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112048	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112052	Thank you. After all, I have spent three periods, a total of 12 years in a town council, and that is why I know that it is the administration that has the right of option, and not the council members. So it is very often the official work that governs political matters and not so much the elected representatives. That is why I am actually surprised that the Minister and the government are opposed to involving citizens more, for example. through referendums. Is it because you're afraid of people's opinions? In the same way, are we also opposed to national referenda, as we did in the constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112140	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112142	No, we are not opposed to this, and I personally believe that there can be plenty of good arguments for holding a referendum. A few years ago we had a vote in Holstebro and Struer municipalities, and it was about whether they should be collected and there was a significant majority against it in both municipalities. So in this way there can be very good reasons for holding referendums. I would also like to say in person that I think it could be used more often, but I also think it should be a local decision that you want to do so. And I think it is also important to say that our people's rule is indeed a fact that has been given to us. In other words, we do not emerge from nothing; we inherit a tradition and a history and a democratic culture, which I also think has a value and which has also shaped our people's rule. And there is no tabula rasa; that is, you can't just clean the board and start over and take over a Swiss model, for example. I think we've gotten used to that since they made the parishes in 1841 that's the way it works at local level and I think it has a value in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112249	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112251	The minister says it's a local decision. The problem is that citizens do not have the right to initiate referendums, and that is why we have this proposal in the Chamber. However, I can hear that the Minister is actually launching a dialogue, so my question is whether the Minister could help to carry out an analysis based on foreign experience so that we could have a political debate on how we can involve the citizens, for example. by means of referendums. It's really good to look at foreign experiences.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112325	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112327	Well, I'd love to help get that started. I think it is right that there can be advantages in making referendums. I think that some of the decisions we have made in referenda have proved to be right because I am going down Memory Lane or such down the path of memory. I think that this is a complement to representative democracy, which, in some circumstances, must be used. So let's try to see how we can learn more about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112359	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112401	Thank you so much. I just wanted to see the minister about something. Now the Minister himself mentions this possibility in the legislation that was introduced in 2018, and this is something that we in New Civil Honours do. In fact, that was one of the things we voted for here in the municipal elections, that is, that there should be more binding municipal referendums. But wouldn't the Minister also admit that the provision that was introduced in 2018 is relatively narrow in relation to precisely having these referendums written out, and that we can also see historically that there may be some politicians who generally do not like the fact that the voice of the Danes is heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112446	Well, I would agree entirely with Mrs Mette Thiesen that this is stricter legislation for binding referendums. But I think it should be. For example: you can make indicative referendums in a part of a municipality or you can make them with a different voting structure. This means that we do not need to vote in the way we know it from municipal and parliamentary elections. I think it is important that when we have a binding referendum, it should also have the same equipment as if it were an election to a municipal council. Otherwise, it wouldn't be fair. And it costs a lot to put up such a vote. Typically, it will also be held in connection with another choice, which is why I think there are fewer who do it spontaneously, that is because there is a greater cost to it. Then I would also say as a counterweight that I think there are many things that are right that have been taken in referendums. We should also bear in mind that such things as the Great Belt Bridge would never have happened if there were a referendum on it. If you go to Switzerland, where you have many referendums, you can see that in one of the largest cities in Switzerland Zurich you still drive off by trams because you have ten times voted against the idea that there should be a metro, as we know it from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112554	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112555	That is actually what is so beautiful about direct democracy. Sometimes politicians are out of touch with the people. And we actually also have a constitutional clause that ensures that you can activate what you call Paragraph 42 of the Constitution and get decisions out. We in New Citizens have also tried to activate it sometimes, and there it is as if there is not much will among politicians to bring people things out to a referendum in general. So just again: does the Minister not think that what is possible today is very narrow and that it can be seen historically that there is not much goodwill among politicians to get it out to a referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112635	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112636	Yes, I agree that it is narrow, but I also believe that it should be narrow in that a binding referendum should, of course, have the same equipment as a real choice. This means that we have to vote down, that there must be elections, that there should be electoral leaders, that there should be the same thing. Because if it turns out that there are errors in it, it is, after all, something other than if it is an indicative referendum. Then I would just like to say to you whether you are out of step with the people: that is, there was a massive majority against the Great Belt Bridge, and if you did a referendum today, I think there would be an even greater majority for it. So sometimes politicians are right, after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112710	That's nice. Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112713	I can hear the Minister saying that there are advantages and disadvantages, and I can also hear that the proposers are very prepared to be open in relation to putting the necessary restrictions on when binding referendums can be made. So now I would like to ask the Minister philosophically whether it is not possible to set limits which are narrow enough to achieve the objective, but where it will still be so that the Minister would be able to recognise that the benefits are greater?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112748	I believe that where I disagree with the authors of the motion is who decides to hold a referendum. I think that we could, in the future, find a solution to the practicalities of some of the debates that are going on elsewhere, but it is a question of what needs to be done, and I believe that I am quite firm in saying that it is the majority of a municipal council that must decide to hold a binding referendum. It can't be a tenth of the city council or another very small faction. It will have to be the majority who decide it, because it is a huge cost, and in many places it will disturb the municipal planning that has been undertaken. For example, if you have to cut the running of the municipality in one place or another, you could easily imagine that everything that is decided to give money to, people would like to have, and then there will be no referendum on it, but that you can easily find a minority that disagrees very much with the fact that you then cut down on some other parts of the operation that exists. There I think we need to look at it in such a way that it should be a majority, and I believe that smaller parties can also demand larger parties in such discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112855	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112856	I would also like to ask the Minister if he is of the opinion that the centralisation which has taken place in the municipal environment can contribute to the fact that more and more people feel run over by decisions taken by a centralized municipal council. Now it was mentioned that it would undermine representative democracy, but I see it as something that can strengthen representative democracy if the groups concerned can speak out. I would then like to ask whether this would not be an opportunity to strengthen representative democracy. You could put all sorts of things into it, it could be a minority in the municipal council or a number of percent of the population who could ask for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112937	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127112938	I fully agree that local democracy, as we know it, has been weakened along the way with the implementation of municipal reform, especially of course in the province, where some very large mergers have been made. I do not deny that there can be a potential for referendums to do anything, but I also believe that one should be aware that if one is one of the small of the seven municipalities that came to be part of the City of Viborg, which became very large geographically also population-oriented, then it would usually be the case that one wants something for the area one represents itself, and one can do that in a local referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127113014	It's Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127113016	I'm going to P1 Debate here at 1:00 a.m. 12.15, so I do not know if I can make my speech, and that is actually a pity, but I would just like to say that referendums are one of the most undemocratic things in the world. That is why it is banned in Germany, because history has taught us that democracy must be measured by its ability to defend and protect the interests of minorities. A referendum leaves the minority on the platform. If in doubt, look to Britain and see the consequences. Referendums dig ditches. Decisions are taken on the basis of popular sentiments It is a matter of principle that needs to be addressed if referendums are to be discussed, and I would therefore like the Minister to address himself to minority protection in referendums.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127113123	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127113126	Thank you. Well, I agree with that, in other words, there are fundamental challenges of principle in referendums. I think that if you look at the world history of referendums like this, it is clear that 2016 has proved to be a bad year for the world history of referendums. In other words, the British elections have led to a great division and a lot of other challenges that have come to light since then, which had not been thought through at the time of the referendum. And that is precisely the risk of holding referendums; but that does not change, I think there can be a lot of positive things about it. In other words, if you take some of the EU processes that have taken place, it has become apparent that in the people of France and the Netherlands there has been a very strong opposition to it, and sometimes also in Denmark. And there I think, when you look back on it, that it was actually very good that you got that temperature measurement on some of those things, rather than that you had just driven on and so expanded with some much wider powers, both in terms of geographical enlargement and legal enlargement, than what we are talking about today. So I think that there are some great advantages in being able to make referendums. But it is clear that it must not be a referendum of the week down in the local sports hall; it must be something that is intended for very special occasions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127113239	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127113241	I do not know whether that is quite historically correct, for example. in relation to the referendums on the geographical enlargement of the European Union that we have had. I would also like to question very much whether we have really discussed what it was about in relation to the referenda on our membership of the European Community. And if that's not what it's all about, for example. Our last vote on the reservation is a strange thing to have to say 'yes' or 'no' when you have had a discussion about something quite different from the 21 acts on which the last referendum was concerned. So I think it is deeply problematic and therefore I need to state it. The Minister says that proper decisions have also been taken. Yes, if you make a referendum, you cannot question the fact that what the people are making a choice is right. That's the way it is, you have to accept it. But that does not change the fact that a referendum always of the people, back on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127113350	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127113353	I fully agree with that. But now, for example, I followed the municipal reform very closely, and in the municipality of Lejre, a small rural municipality on Zealand, everyone in the town council said, except one, that you would like to be merged with Roskilde Municipality and become part of a large municipality. At the very last meeting, it was decided to hold a referendum on belonging. There it ended up with a fairly significant majority of Lejre Municipality's citizens who wanted to continue to be part of a rural municipality together with Bramsnæs and Hvalsø. And I think that is a picture of the fact that sometimes people also have the opposite, that is to say, of the people who want something that subsequently turns out to work and that politicians might have misunderstood along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127113433	Thank you. Then there are no more comments. We are moving forward and it is from the Social Democratic Party Mrs Birgitte Vind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127113449	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for wanting to debate our local democracy. In the social democracy we agree that our democracy must be constantly fertilised, it must be nurtured and it must be developed. Fortunately, it will also be in many ways, not least through our democratic elections to the EU and the Folketing, regions and municipalities, but also locally in our associations, in Association Denmark. Denmark is a well-developed democracy, where citizens have relatively easy access to those who take decisions and also the elected representatives. After all, we are a small country without high mountains, and we are linked by our values and our culture and our democratic spirit, in which we uphold the right to disagree and respect the results of democratic processes. Democracy is not just about formal and official democratic rules, but even more about democratic dialogue, mutual respect and understanding of each other's views. The biggest change in our local democracy in recent times was the structural reform, which has divided the country into 98 municipalities and five regions, and it really took a few years to get used to the new local democracies. It was not without problems that the democratic dialogue was carried out in new ways, and some also experienced a greater distance. Today it is our belief that this structure has fallen into place. In many municipalities several smaller local councils have been added. I believe that in a municipality such as Vejle Municipality you have almost 30 local councils; advice which is taken on board by the municipal council and which speaks on local issues and which is involved. As it is today, all members of the municipal council can ask for cases to be placed on the agenda, so that all citizens can at any time contact individual Members with specific proposals that Members would like to work with. It is for us to see the core of our local democracies. In the Social Democratic Party we certainly do not believe that it would be constructive to have to make binding municipal votes, in other words referendums on the basis of individual cases that would arise on an ongoing basis. In fact, I think that the Minister gave a very good example of the fact that perhaps more money was proposed for the elderly at the expense of schools. I think I can follow the Minister in the scenario that would arise. The elected town councils are those who have and must take responsibility for the municipality's operation and development, and they must answer for it every four years. In addition, it is already possible to make both indicative and binding municipal referendums where a municipal council considers it necessary. For me, the talk we have had up to today and with each other also shows that referendums are not a democratic tool that has been missed in the municipalities. I also think that we should remember that the agenda in the municipalities should not be overturned by a given popular atmosphere at any given time, but that the decisions we make in the municipalities are on objective and substantiated grounds. That is at least what I experienced in my years as a municipal politician, namely that I also had a lot of material and access to knowledge which, as a citizen, would not necessarily be able to understand. I think we should continue to fertilise and grow the local democratic system we have today, which is about 15 years old. I think we owe it to each other to make it develop constructively from where it is. We cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127113851	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127113854	The rapporteur says that referendums are not missing in the municipalities. How does the rapporteur know? Have any studies been carried out that I don't know? Have any polls been made? Have any reports been made to which the rapporteur could refer? My experience is that the opposite is true: when citizens are given the opportunity to take part in a referendum locally, they do so on a large scale. The Minister himself has referred to, for example: the case of Lejre Municipality, and there are plenty of other cases to be referred to. So how does the rapporteur know that the referendum is not missing locally?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127113941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127113943	Yes, it is true that I have not seen any studies, where you have been out like this and like to ask the citizens, ask the Danes if there is a great need for it. What is the experience and now I have to speak for myself again from my local political activities in a municipal council is that you, as a local politician, are constantly being contacted, breathed in the back, by interest groups and people who have something on their minds. And I have not seen any municipal politician who does not take it seriously when there is a large interest group and wants to be listened to and heard. I think that is an expression of the fact that our democracy is working.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114023	So the rapporteur does not know if it is missing. I asked the Minister if he would be involved in an analysis based on foreign experience so that we could become wiser and perhaps somehow relate to it at home. The minister openly accepted it and said: Yes. Will the rapporteur and the Social Democrats also help to become wiser now that the rapporteur cannot know whether it is missing or not, thus getting answers to the question? It would be nice if the Social Democratic Party also supported the Minister's open invitation for a closer analysis of foreign experience on referendums. Will the rapporteur be involved in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114104	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114106	In a democracy one simply cannot afford not to be interested in the proper functioning of democracy. Every day we have a huge commitment in this very room to ensure that the democratic conversation can take place. So I certainly do not refuse to learn more about what works elsewhere and what could work for us. But I think it is responsible to say that we have a 15-year-old structural reform which is now unfolding. You are about to find your legs in the municipalities, you are about to find each other in this. Even for the municipality I come from, the Municipality of Vejle, which consists of five old center towns, it has been a great task to make it work constructively.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114148	Thank you. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114153	Thank you. I cannot say that this surprises me, but I would really like to hear something now, when the Social Democrats do not seem to support the fact that the voice of the Danes should be heard to a greater extent. At the moment, it is a lot of climate and so on, but when it comes to decisions to place huge wind turbines in people's backyards, does the rapporteur really not think that the most fair thing and that what would be most appropriate would be to ask those people who actually have to live with what politicians decide?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114233	It is precisely for this reason that all local authorities also have the opportunity to decide that a municipal referendum should be held.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114242	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114246	Yeah, that's right. It is just not something that has been mentioned before, as you see very often. I have my own assumption, and now, fortunately, we have also had 64 good bourgeois people elected around the various city councils, who just want to have more of these municipal binding referendums. But why is it that people are so afraid that the citizens too want the decisions taken by politicians to come to a referendum if they can gather enough support? Is that what you're afraid of? Is it not a problem if politicians cannot recognise that they may have made a mistake, made a wrong decision? But let the voice of the citizens be heard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114324	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114325	I'm not afraid of anything. So, the people who stand for democratic elections and choose to be elected to lead a municipality or, in this case, the Folketing, do so because they want to take responsibility and because they dare to stand for the decisions they make. So I don't think anyone's afraid of that when you go into politics. At least you shouldn't go into politics. I believe that we have a good democratic system in which the elected representatives have the opportunity to be well dressed by the official work and to analyse the many different options, such as: will be when you have to place wind turbines, and that is exactly a theme that can touch really, very many. So that is why it is a thorough preparatory work that would have to take place there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114404	Thank you. There are no further comments to the rapporteur, so we go further. Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114422	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for resurrecting the debate here in Parliament on this subject, which I actually think it is important that we debate. I can start by saying that we in the Left are basically satisfied with the representative democracy, as we know it today in the municipalities of the country. And then it can be said that it is possible to discuss at any time how we can get a democratic system together in the most appropriate way, and we in the Left are happy to have that discussion. But it also means that I think it is important that we consider carefully: what are the advantages and what are the disadvantages? I know that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and this is also seen in the motion for a resolution here, looks at Switzerland a great deal, in terms of how to do it there. I can also inform you in this Chamber today that I have acquaintances in Switzerland, actually acquaintances who are involved in the political system in Switzerland. And I have also taken the discussions with Ida, as one of them called, in relation to what is the pros and cons of the system they have in Switzerland. One of the things that I noticed in what Ida told me was that she was worried that sometimes people had too many referendums in Switzerland, because she also saw a tendency to • and now I know that it is her personal attitude, I have heard that some kind of dilution took place, i.e. that the people were running tired in that they had to go to elections all the time. I am also saying this in order to play it a little against this motion for a resolution. Well, I have a concern that, if you do not think things out, you risk destroying something that actually works well in my eyes. One of the things that I think is really important, and which perhaps we in this House should also have a more debate about, is that in these times, when we at least experience in many parties that fewer and fewer Danes become active in political parties, I would like us to have a talk about: could we do something about this in order to ensure that the local people got more interest and, for that matter, also a greater insight into what it means to be a politician and what we are getting of opportunities. After all, I was able to hear from the Minister that the Minister was also prepared to make an analysis if necessary. That was at least the answer he gave to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and I think that it might also be that such an analysis should then be extended, in relation to looking at what has happened in recent years and what is actually the reason why fewer and fewer, unfortunately, are involved in political parties. On the whole, I think it is important to have local councils around, which support what is going on in the municipalities and which, for that matter, can also influence things in the municipalities. I also have the impression that in many of the municipalities I know and visit, there is a great deal of work to be done by the city councils to delegate responsibility to the individual communities. And that is also one of the things that can be said to mean that individual people, individual citizens, can influence what is decided around the city councils. We have a representative democracy today, and that is why we are in the Left where we cannot support this motion for a resolution, but we are, of course, very happy to take the debate, including during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114828	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114830	First of all, thank you for having spoken to an acquaintance in Switzerland. It's always nice to talk to people who have the practical experience. What puzzles me and it has always puzzled me is that the Left is against referendums. The left has a terrific story. Estrup and the Provisional Government, which was the extreme example of representative democracy, were fought against simply knowing and refusing to involve the citizens. Left would that be why I am surprised that we do not want to be involved in local referendums based on people's wishes, just as it was people who were behind the Left's desire 150 years ago to be involved. What happened, Mrs. Anni Matthiesen? Has the Left become afraid of the attitude of ordinary people, and has it become part of the system, as was Estrup at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127114931	I think I have to say first of all to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that we in the Left are not opposed to referendums. It's just like putting it right. I also think that if the rapporteur has listened to what I have said in my speech, I would stress the importance of listening to the citizens locally when making a decision. In fact, I also think that access to the elected Members, access to those whom the majority has crossed, is incredibly good. In fact, I think that access for the population to us elected by elected representatives in the more than 10 years that I have spent in the Folketing has become considerably better and is better today than if, for example, we were to do so. Looking back 15-20 years, you couldn't just send an e-mail to or call the MP or the councilman. Because I receive very, very many direct enquiries from citizens who either come up with good ideas or with concerns and so on. etc. and which I take very seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115036	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115038	If the Left is not afraid of referendums, why not vote for this resolution? Because that gives citizens the opportunity to collect their own signatures and then put a matter on the agenda. That would be good. What we are talking about is a supplement to representative democracy, not a replacement. People are often interested in individual cases, and they cannot wait 2, 3 or 4 years for the choice of city council. So if you are in favour, why not say yes to this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115116	Because we actually believe that the system that is built up today works.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115125	That's it. There are no more brief remarks, and that is why it is from SF Mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115148	Thank you very much. In fact, in the SF, we have a great deal of sympathy for Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen and others SF has often wanted more referendums than those that have taken place in the last 30 years, and SF has in fact also had different models in the past on how to make local referendums and indicative referendums in the country's municipalities. It is also the SF's view that we must strengthen our democracy, and that is why we spend so much time on, among other things, the people's desire to get involved in democracy in a general sense. democratic education in primary schools, but also when it comes to citizens' understanding of the work of the Danish Parliament and the city council politicians. If the aim of the proposal is to increase democratic understanding and involvement, one can ask oneself whether this is best done, as the proposers write, by means of a local referendum. I am not going to start a long debate on democracy in this case, but I would say that in the SF we believe very much in involvement and dialogue, in other words a democratic conversation as an important basis for making decisions and for citizens to have insight into and understanding why these decisions are being made. Everyone who knows about local politics knows that there are a great many examples of democracy lagging or limping, and at worst a lot. This applies to hearings where, as a starting point, a decision has already been taken: then you listen to the hearing, but you do not change anything. There are also decisions which ignore all forms of party submissions from, for example. citizens and employees, and basically it's just not right. SF will therefore also encourage municipalities to discuss how they can translate and much like to strengthen their local democracy. There are, for example: municipalities which have experimented with the creation of § 17 (1). 4· Committees, e.g. Citizen Dialogue Committee. There are also municipalities where there are committees which have chosen to try to give priority to political matters from a democratic perspective. But again, there is a very long way to go in terms of strengthening our local democracy. We would like to take part in looking at the conditions for both indicative and local referendums and also direct referendums, but basically we do not agree with the principles set out in the resolution. But I also hear that there is openness, among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). The SF cannot therefore give its immediate support to the proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115444	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115446	The SF rapporteur asks whether the purpose of the resolution is to increase understanding and involvement among the electorate. That's it. Why can I say this so clearly? Because the experience of other countries with local referendums shows that citizens are becoming more involved. Often you refer to Switzerland, but we can do something that is easier we can refer to Schleswig-Holstein, which is very close to Denmark, also culturally. Since the mid-1990s, a model has been chosen which reminds a great deal of it in Switzerland, with the possibility of local referendums at parish level and at municipal level. Citizens can demand a referendum. Analyses have been made of it, and there are very good experiences. When I tell you this, could it not have the SF consider saying yes to this proposal when it turns out that understanding and involvement are increased through referendums?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115558	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115559	Well, it's not that easy. I will try to turn it around and say that in advance of a vote, for example, if it is. If we were here in the Parliamentary Chamber, there is often a long debate, for example. in the committees. So in the SF we are actually looking more at the importance of dealing with the citizens' proposals that it is possible to get up in the municipalities with dignity in the municipalities and not just saying that you have to have an excessive percentage of citizens who have to back it up before you can deal with it and then just choose to ignore it. No, if we reduce the limit on when to deal with a citizen's proposal and if, during the process, we dare to open up a dialogue with the citizens who have tabled the proposal, we see that it is both more appropriate in terms of content and that it is probably more important from a democratic point of view to deal with matters in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115659	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115700	We know, of course, that some very specific citizens are interested in this sort of thing. What we know from among other things. Switzerland is that when you have these votes, three out of four citizens taking part in referendums will simply have a good or very good knowledge of the content of the votes. This is because there is a lot of debate ahead of us. So it actually raises and informs people to have referendums. In that light, would it not be a good idea to say yes to this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115738	There I hear the Minister mention that some of the examples we have, for example. From Switzerland, is one of the things we have to deal with in committee. As I said before, some of the criteria underlying the motion for a resolution make us at present. cannot vote for it. However, we have sympathy for the content of it, and perhaps the proposal should be tightened up differently. We're willing to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115759	Thank you. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Mrs Christina Thorholm, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127115821	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate on municipal autonomy and democracy at all. Today we have a solution where the City Council can send proposals for a referendum, which became an opportunity in 2018. There are also many other approaches which the local municipal council can choose in order to strengthen the local debate. The municipal council may, inter alia: deal with citizens' proposals. How many citizens will have to agree to a citizens' proposal before it is dealt with? This is the decision that municipal politicians out there can make in relation to where they think the demand should be. Section 17 (3) has been brought to the attention of the Court of Justice. Four committees. These are committees that can be set up and where citizens in close, close dialogue with politicians deal with matters. And then there's the fantastic local council work that a lot of people are involved in. It is different platforms that are in play and are being developed. I can be in doubt about the extent to which it is the local knowledge that the rapporteur has from the municipality from which he comes, compared to the vision of how well this citizen's proposal works. But it certainly works in the municipality from which I work. We believe that representative democracy ends up with decisions that embrace a wider population than in simple referendums. We think more people are being heard. We also believe that members of the municipal council and members of the regional council and members of the parliament should be responsible for the unpopular decisions, as the Minister stressed. It may be easy to put popular decisions into referendums, but who will then take responsibility for the rest? So, the balance that has to be in things, in the debate and in the political work. It may then sound very attractive to Switzerland and to the extent of referendums, but I would like to point out in the sign of equality and equality that it was not until 1971 that women were granted the right to vote in Switzerland. And we got that at 70 years earlier. It is a right which I think is very important for the democratic situation we have today in Denmark. For as Mr. Jens Rohde said earlier, so the minority is far more neglected in relation to decisions in this context. Well, then I'd like to challenge sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, when he said that it was the officials who put the agenda in local politics. We have the right, as municipal politicians, to set an agenda, and this is, of course, about the commitment of local politicians to the initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120131	Thank you. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120134	In the law, it is the administration that has the right of adjustment. The rapporteur cannot interfere with this. I noticed that the rapporteur mentioned that it was better with representative democracy than with votes. The rapporteur also said that popular votes were easy. But then the rapporteur speaks against better knowledge, because there are plenty of examples of the opposite, i.e., for example. when Switzerland had to vote yes or no for six weeks' vacation. A majority of the electorate voted against; they wanted to keep four weeks' holiday. Why? Yes, because they came to the conclusion that at that time it would be economically irresponsible, both for the state and for the companies. So I simply believe that the radical rapporteur underestimates the integrity of people and their knowledge when they vote. In that sense, would it not be a good idea to say yes to the proposal and give people more codecision?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120240	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120242	I think it is a good idea for us, as has been the case in the past, to have it clarified and analysed so that we have a broader knowledge of what decisions are being taken and how, for example, it is done. puts a strain on a society to have a great many referendums. What is the significance of this interest? So we support that part, that is to say we will get it as the starting point for the further debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120312	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120314	After all, it is excellent that there is a broad majority in favour of the Minister doing an analysis work. In this context, we could take a walk to Schleswig-Holstein, which, after all, went from a Danish representative democracy to a semi-direct democracy with the possibility of lots of local referendums so that we could simply talk to people down there. Analyses have also been carried out, and there are good experiences from there. Would the rapporteur be interested in such things in order to become wiser?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120348	I believe that it is characteristic of the radical mind to be open to information about how to do it elsewhere so that we can learn from those experiences. So yes, it is quite natural to be responsive to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120402	Thank you. Then no one else will comment. That is why it is Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120415	In the Enhedslisten, we agree that there are advantages and disadvantages in referendums in addition to representative democracy. It simply depends on how to define the conditions for making such referendums. But there is obviously openness both from the proposers and the minister to weigh how to define the different criteria. In this context, I would like to ask the authors whether they have considered that the scheme might also include neighbourhoods or local committees or similar areas. Whereas any decision must be taken at the lowest possible level in relation to which the decision relates. I also agree that there is, in fact, a demarcation that states that a referendum cannot support minority protection, that is quite correct. I would like to say, however, that in this context we must also talk about the protection of the majority sometimes, and that is what we are talking about if one thing is put to the vote in a local area. However, I would suggest, if we are going to move forward here, that we call on the Minister in committee for a closed consultation, in which we examine whether we can find common views on criteria that can promote the benefits and limit the disadvantages of introducing a referendum procedure? And I would suggest that this is quite specifically the way we move forward in the discussion on it. For me there is no doubt that centralisation has allowed decisions to be removed from the extremes of the population. The minister himself mentioned the parish municipalities... weren't there 1,300 of them? And now we have 98 municipalities within which these decisions are made. There is no doubt that it has limited quite a lot in its direct influence. In addition, the entire authorisation decision, which almost always takes place at the first municipal council meeting after an election, and where none of the newly elected people knows what is going on, to be quite honest now. In other words, a great many of the decision-making powers that you think lie with those you have chosen are really in the administrations. All these things, I think, should be included in the debate, which is why I think that closed consultation could be a good forum to consider whether we can do some other and more things in relation to this referendum idea. The Enhedslisten would like to support the proposal because we would like to encourage such a debate to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120655	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Birgitte Bergman (Alex Ahrendtsen Can I have the floor?). Well, damn it, there was a comment anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120705	Sorry, I was simply so captivated by the support of the Enhedslisten rapporteur that I forgot to press. Thank you for the suggestion of closed consultation. I think that is a good idea, so that we can all become wiser, and I would like to thank you for that and also thank you for your support for the proposal. I just want to ask if, in principle, Enhedslisten thinks it is a good idea to give people the right to hold a referendum after they have collected signatures in the local community.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120737	Yeah, that's basically a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120741	Excellent. Then the rapporteur also asked a question about town and local elections in the municipality. So, the proposal here goes on referendums in the municipality as a whole, and then you have to collect signatures from 10%. That is why I am voting against the motion for a resolution. We have not taken a position on town and local elections in the municipality, but it could also be an opportunity that we could discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120805	This can then be achieved before such consultation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120809	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Birgitte Bergman, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127120818	This is a very interesting debate which the Danish People's Party raises with the resolution. It is about requiring the government to amend the legislation so that municipal councils can issue binding referendums. In addition, it wants to impose a referendum on municipal councils, if at least 10%. of those entitled to vote want it in different contexts. On the Conservative side, we have great sympathy for the intention of the proposal, which is, of course, to increase the interest and commitment of citizens in the local policy agenda. Our local democracy is important and it is something we must safeguard. However, as the rules are today, there is really nothing to prevent local authorities saying: if we get enough signatures, we want a binding referendum. But we do not think that a binding way is the right way to go from in here. There will be many situations in which a holistic municipal strategy will be made more difficult if one can choose out individual elements and then require them to be put to the vote. I can give you an example from the municipality of Elsinore, where a little over 10 years ago we got Kulturhavn Kronborg. If it had been sent to a referendum, it would probably never have happened. But today, fortunately, most of the citizens are • I believe virtually everyone is that we have Kulturhavn Kronborg. It is therefore an investment of 1.3 billion in total. kr. in culture in the Elsinore city centers. We can imagine situations where you need to make some unpopular decisions to provide some funding, because you want to develop some other parts of the municipality, which I just outlined a short time ago. Then you run the risk that the source of funding that you have used to develop another part of the municipality can be reversed in a referendum. I think it is very important that we ensure good citizen involvement in local politics, and that is also possible today. It has been mentioned by the previous rapporteurs that many do so on social media. There are hearings which are taking place in some places and there are us local politicians who have a great obligation to listen, to go out and hold meetings, to involve and bring up matters locally; we can do so. That is why citizens' meetings are also possible. And I think it might also be possible to go another way to ensure increased citizen involvement precisely by doing these things. I believe that increased freedom for the municipalities can be part of the answer, so that the municipalities and municipal councils will have better opportunities to set a local political agenda and make a focused effort on the local areas. I think that can lead to an increased interest in local politics. In those words, we in the Conservatives can support the intention to strengthen local democracy, but we cannot therefore support the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127121133	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127121135	It is a good thing for sympathy, and I welcome that. The rapporteur mentions a case from the municipality about a cultural port, and she assumes that there would have been a vote against, but she does not know, because it was not attempted. That is what is so interesting about votes, that there may be resistance at first, but that people often end up voting 'yes' in line with information and knowledge. My question is whether the rapporteur could be a member of an experimental municipality where the municipality could be allowed to do what we propose in the resolution, namely that it be possible to collect signatures as a citizen and then demand a vote. Could this be interesting for the rapporteur's municipality, where the rapporteur is also a member of the Council?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127121241	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127121242	I cannot and will not speak on behalf of an entire town council in the municipality of Elsinore about what might be of proposals, that is to say of what the rapporteur is bringing forward. Once again, I believe that every four years we go to the polls, and there the local citizens choose who should sit and help make the various decisions. In addition, we have hearings, we have an appearance, we have citizen involvement, and just at Kulturhavn Kronborgs area we had a great deal of consultation and very much citizen involvement, and I can only say that I am very pleased that Conservatives and Social Democrats at the time came together to establish such a great development and revitalisation of the city of Elsinore, which has meant that even more people want to move there, that we grow within both culture and industry, but also the citizens who live there. Perhaps you cannot always see this with local spectacles when you are a citizen sitting in a municipality, which is why it is important that we have politicians who go in and take responsibility. Because that's what we did.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127121349	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127121351	It's funny about the Conservatives: when you push them on their stomachs, Estrup comes out. First of all, you have sympathy, and then it really turns out that you do not actually have much sympathy for involving citizens through votes. I just want to ask you something. All other parties have actually indicated that they are interested in an analysis, and in this respect some parties have also proposed closed consultations in which the Minister and the Ministry take a position on foreign experience. Are you Conservatives interested in backing something like this up?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127121424	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127121426	Anything that can make us wiser in this area, of course, we would like to participate in. We are also happy to take part in some analysis work. However, we cannot support the resolution as it stands today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127121437	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127121452	Back in November there were municipal elections, and in New Citizens we had a great choice, far better looking than our somewhat modest expectations and aspirations. It was absolutely fantastic, and a thousand thanks to all the good and bourgeois people who both stood up, supported and contributed to our having as many as 64 seats elected in the city councils around Denmark. One of our general reasons for local elections was precisely to have a more direct democracy around the municipalities, several binding municipal referendums. Citizens must be heard much more, not just by chrome words and citizens' meetings, but in fact by municipally binding referendums. Today it is possible to bring a proposal for a municipal referendum at the so-called third reading in the city council if a majority of the municipal council so wishes. We have just not really seen any examples of them. It is not because they have not been put forward, but at least there has not yet been a majority in favour of it. But I think that the proposal we are debating now speaks a lot into the spirit that we in New Citizens want more of in Denmark in general. Our town councilman in Tønder has among other things. In fact, a proposal that there should be a referendum on wind turbines and solar cells is something the citizens want and on what land they should be etc. And that is such a pretty concrete example, and now we have to see whether there is support for it to come to a referendum. For politicians must decide much less, the Danes must decide much more for themselves, and this also applies in the municipalities of the country, where, unfortunately, some decisions are still thrown away around despite opposition from the citizens. This is about more democracy, not less. In New Citizens we pay tribute to democracy, including that directly of the kind. We pay tribute to decentralization, and for us, decentralisation is not just about decentralising into the municipalities, no, we want to decentralise all the way to the individual institutions, all the way to the individual Danes. In the past, we have tried to activate section 42 of the Constitution in the Folketing, where we had the opportunity to have the relaxation of foreign policy, which the Social Democratic Party said they would not do, but which they did, to vote with the Danes. Unfortunately, there was no majority in favour of this. It did not succeed because there was in fact a majority in here at Christiansborg who did not want the Danes to be heard, at least apparently not more than necessary. And it also seems that today's debate among politicians does not really want to hear that. They may find it a little hasty to ask the Danes more than they do today. We don't do that in New Citizens. We don't think it's the trouble. Because we want more close democracy, more direct democracy, and, in short, that politicians decide much less and Danes much more for themselves. That is why, of course, we also support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127121806	Thank you. There are no comments on that, so we move on to the next one, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127121821	We cannot support the resolution, and I think that if there is something we have learned in recent years where social media have started to fill much more, it is that there is an incredible number of people who feel very sure that they know something, even though what they think is quite wrong. You meet that every day on social media. People base their attitude on something that is absolutely invented and imaginative and not right at all. If you like to open up that people do not have to choose politicians, they have confidence in them, who can make decisions in a more informed way than what people themselves think, then you open up the door to what needs to be more full of political decision-making, that is to say that you feel things, even if they are not true. If you look out of the windows here in Copenhagen and think about it, a good suggestion is that half of Copenhagen might not be here if it were to be sent to a referendum every time you had to expand Copenhagen. Would the king have been allowed to build Slotsholmen where we stand now? Would Christianshavn be there? Would it start building outside the violence if those who lived in the violence were to decide if this could be done? There are all sorts of questions where it must be said that the principle of influence, by voting for a person in whom you trust, in the expectation that this person will get to grips with things and take decisions on the basis of a qualified opinion, works very well. We also know it from everyday life. You go down to your mechanic with your car, and you don't want the mechanic to call you and ask how to fix that car. You want the mechanic to be able to make those decisions, because the mechanic knows that. That's why you chose that mechanic. It is because one hopes that he understands it, even in a way that one does not know about it. So you delegate responsibility for your car to the mechanic because he spends all his working hours being smart on how to repair a car and on repairing cars. Or it may be a surgeon, where you would rather not be asked, while you are lying there under his knife, about how the work should be done. It is then hoped that this is how we know it from representative democracy. A number of issues we would actually like to delegate further because we do not have the time. We do not have time to give so much attention to all the issues that need to be decided in Parliament and the municipal council that we can get to grips with this properly, and that is why we would rather vote for a person whom we trust to do so on our behalf. That principle seems to us to be working well and we think it is also good that in some matters we should issue a referendum, for example.: Should we surrender sovereignty to the European Union or should we not? We are very happy that we do that in Denmark. However, the extension of it to all matters where there may be a tenth of the citizens of a municipality, who have gathered together to demand a referendum, should do so, we will not do so. So for these reasons we are voting against the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122207	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122209	Well, thank you for the honesty. So what the rapporteur actually says is that people are ignorant and that the king is much better at making decisions. What the rapporteur also refers to is that if people are allowed to take part in votes, everything goes wrong. In other words, there are plenty of countries, or at least there are a number of countries that use referendums that are hypermodern and that are mega-rich and that are also richer on some points than Denmark. It is also known from studies that three out of four citizens have a good or very good knowledge of the content of the vote before they go up and vote. So votes are also informative, as opposed to social media. Would it not be good, then, for the Liberal Alliance to support this proposal, in other words when it actually does what the rapporteur really wants us to have a better dialogue?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122308	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122309	Well, if it did, I agree that it would be good to go that way. We just don't think it does. We believe that it reinforces what is already being played out on social media, where those who can perform with the greatest emotions and perhaps at command produce a tear, win most of those votes, that is, because they may seem like they are the most emotional about things. And it will put an obstacle in the way of making sensible decisions based on things that we know, rather than on things that we feel and that are actually not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122351	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122352	The rapporteur used the image of the customer driving the car to the mechanic because he knows what this is about. In a representative democracy, you take the car and drive it to the politician, and then it breaks down, while in a representative democracy, where you have the possibility of referendums, you can vote on driving the car to the mechanic instead of driving it to the politician. That's much better. I would just like to say that we know from research that there is less mud throwing where there are more referendums. So would it not be good to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122433	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122436	I don't know if you know that from research. It is known that Switzerland is an extremely well-functioning country in all possible ways, and in an extremely well-functioning country like Switzerland it is possible that referendums have that effect. And it is also possible that Denmark is in the same way an extremely well-functioning country and that it could have that effect. I mean, if it's that mister... Alex Ahrendtsen's theory is correct, so I agree with Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen says we should go that way. I just don't think it's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122506	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122518	I'm just going to go a little further than this little anecdotal story about this mechanic that the rapporteur mentioned. If you were to use that comparison, that would be like driving the car to the mechanic. I should be honest to say that when I drive my car to the mechanic, I would really like the mechanic to contact me if, for example, something needs to be done. I'm the one who's going to end up with the bill, so it could be very nice if he likes to contact me and says: Well, it's actually going to be done for so much, but you can actually settle for this, but then it just won't last as long; what would you actually like to pay a lot yourself and then keep the car for a long time or maybe pay a little less because you know you have to change it out at some point? Does the rapporteur not also agree that it is a little the same when it comes to these referenda, i.e. local referendums, when it comes to the fact that it is really about those who have to pay the price, so to say, those who have to live with the resolution that have the last word? Isn't that really a very good principle?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122620	I think that what I see in municipal election campaigns, both here in Copenhagen, where I live and elsewhere, is that a number of themes are discussed in the election campaign, and sometimes a single theme is blurred up, and with regard to this issue there may be a different attitude among a majority of citizens than there is with a majority of members of the municipal council. Nevertheless, citizens vote for the people in whom they normally trust, because that much is not enough for them either. They still believe in Mayor Jensen, that is, he is the best at running the municipality, even though they do not agree with Mayor Jensen on one issue. And that suggests to me that they really want Mayor Jensen to continue to decide these things, even if they do not agree with him on one thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122709	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122711	Thank you. It just comes as a surprise to me that it is a rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance who says that politicians know better than the Danes themselves. I just think it is a strange principle, because one has to assume that, as a person who pays tribute, what to say, what to say, what to say, what to say, what to say, what to say, what to say, what to say, what to say, what to say, what to say, what to say, what to say, what to say, what to say, what to say, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, what to do, and what to do? Nor do I share the view that this would just mean that people would have to go to a referendum all the time. In fact, I have very much faith in that we generally have in New Citizens that the Danes themselves can assess when there is something so important that they want something to say in a case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122756	I am very convinced that the vast majority of people by far most of the time are best at making decisions about things in their own lives. On the other hand, I am also convinced that politics for most people is only something that they are dealing with peripherally, because it is not necessarily about their own lives to a large extent, but more about society as a whole, where their own position is not so important to how society as a whole develops. Therefore, they allow themselves to run freewheel and just take the attitude that is most popular in the canteen they sit in, instead of taking the attitude that is right for society. So that is why I think that there is a big difference between whether you make decisions about your own life or about society, where you are not as central a person as you are in your own life.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122841	Then there are no more questions. And since there are no representatives of the Free Greens, the Alternative or the Christian Democrats, it is now the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127122902	I had an aha experience in 2016. I had gone to Switzerland, I had been given self-paid leave from here and was among other things. enrolled at two universities in Bern and one in Lausanne. And for the first time in Lausanne University's 70-year history, there was actually a vote at the university that had never happened before. Why? Yes, there were simply some students who were dissatisfied with a decision made by the representative democracy of the university. Then they collected signatures, had an election campaign and a vote, and then it turned out that the students disagreed with the representative democracy, namely the board. So they rejected the resolution. For me it was a huge experience to see how citizens suddenly got the opportunity to change a decision, and the board was wildly surprised. It did, of course, have the position Mr. Ole Birk Olesen argued that it knew better but it did not, for the students disagreed. This has been a good debate, I would say, and it has also moved forward. So, Enhedslisten and New Citizens are in favour, and I am glad to thank you for your support. On the other hand, the other parties will not vote in favour, but have agreed that we will either hold closed consultations or have an analysis carried out or both. The Minister himself has indicated that he would like to make an analysis, among other things. based on foreign experience. I would also like to take a meeting with the Minister so that we can talk through how we can do this in the right way. One of the considerations we can make is to make an experiment; the minister has the authority to experiment. You can set up an experiment and then a municipality can join, and then we can try to implement what we have outlined in the proposal, namely that citizens will have the opportunity to draw up petitions in order to have a referendum. Then we can see if the Danes are even interested. It is a model that I would like to see after we have, of course, obtained the analyses and gained experience from, among others. Schleswig-Holstein, which is very similar to Denmark and which has held referendums since 1995. So there's plenty of material. And there's plenty of research from Switzerland. There really is a lot of research. You know exactly how referendums work down there. Let me just give you some key points which are important: for example, you know, and it is on the basis of three independent research results over 15 or 20 years of age that I can hardly remember that three out of four citizens participating in referendums have a good or a very good knowledge of the content of the vote. And they do, because there are plenty of debates in newspapers and on television and radio, so they are actually being enlightened. Then it is also known that referendums include political groupings which would otherwise be left on the platform of representative democracy. Referendums simply ensure that those groupings are included in the decisions because they are afraid of having a referendum. So the possibility of referendums often prevents referendums because they are to be avoided. Then we also know from research that isolated political groupings are being included, so that referendums have a kind of valve function, and then we also avoid the development of extremism. We also know that people are quite responsible at the end of the day; and also very popular decisions can be rejected if people think it is irresponsible. And then it is known that there is less mud throwing in democracies that have the possibility of referendums. Why this is so is not entirely agreed, but it is certainly a fact. I would also like to touch on some of the points made by the rapporteurs themselves. In other words, the Minister has said that it is not the right tool, but I now think that the Minister and the Government and the Social Democrats continue to have a strange fear of contact with the electorate and the people. It is weird about the history of Social Democracy, where you were up against a violent system at the time and where you came from the people and where you fought to become a part of democracy. Today, you are the system itself and you do not want to give up that power. But I'm happy with the outstretched hand I think it's a movement and I'd like to sign and thank the Minister for that. It's a bit of a shame that Mr. Jens Rohde is not present in the Chamber. He really wanted to be here. He said, among other things, that it is forbidden in Germany. I mean, it is not at state level, because there are many referendums in, for example. Bavaria. And then he even said that referendums are directly undemocratic. I would just like to remind you that it was actually the representative democracy that brought Hitler to power... it wasn't referendums at the time. I note that both the Social Democrats and the Left will agree to an analysis work and will probably also participate in a closed consultation. I am pleased about that. Thank you. However, I still do not quite understand the violent opposition to referendums in the two parties, but what you can see is that the old parties are against referendums and the new parties are in favour. This was also the case in the past with Liberal Alliances. In fact, it was an interior minister from the Liberal Alliance who said yes to the Danish People's Party's proposal for binding municipal referendums adopted in a city council. It was sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille. A few moments ago, I would like to say to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, but hopefully we can work together on that later. SF's outstretched hand, I'll take it. In fact, I cannot stress strongly enough that referendums create increased understanding and involvement among voters, and I know that is part of SF's DNA. I hope that in connection with the treatment we will be able to repay you for your sympathy. The Radical Left has a long tradition of knowing better, but I hope that we can also make them a little wiser. Thank you, too, to the Enhedslisten for its support and to say 'yes' so clearly that you will help to give citizens the right to collect signatures. We have not taken a position on this with the regional elections; there are some separate problems that we need to address in the negotiations. I would also like to thank the Conservatives for their sympathy for the proposal. In fact, I thought it might be fun to make an attempt at that very moment in the rapporteur's municipality. That would actually be interesting. I hope that the rapporteur will support it if we are given the opportunity to do so. Unfortunately, the rapporteur for the new citizens has left, but in the end, thank you for your support for the new citizens too. I am really looking forward to meeting with the Minister on this, and I am also looking forward to continuing the discussion in committee with the other parties. I think it has been a good debate, although there is no majority in favour of the proposal. So thank you for the effort, thank you for the many good arguments for and against it has actually been a pleasure. Yeah, sometimes it's fun to be a politician! Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127123756	Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127123758	I thought I would also take this opportunity to ask the rapporteur something. I can hear from the rapporteur that this is not the first time we have discussed this in this Chamber. I know that and I can see that the rapporteur is very concerned about this matter. That is why I also thought that the rapporteur must have considered along the way what are the drawbacks of this proposal, in other words just to bring it up too. For it is clear that, as rapporteur, there may be a tendency to address all the good things, but the rapporteur must also have thought things through in relation to what might be of danger and what might be of disadvantage to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127123836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127123837	The rapporteur himself has brought it up, namely that there can be votes in Switzerland at all levels: at parish level, at state level and at national level. And I know that there are some who are tired of it; the rapporteur's acquaintance Ida is not the only one. That's one of the drawbacks, and that's why you have to have this balance. But when you look at it overall, it has actually been a success for a country like Switzerland, and it has also been a success in Schleswig-Holstein because you engage the citizens. And that is the point: if people are not able to engage in our democracy, they are bewildering it. And that is what is the danger in a representative democracy, where people can eventually get away from people, and therefore referendums can be what is correct. But they must never stand alone there must always be a representative democracy. They're a supplement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127123936	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127123938	Thank you. I am pleased that the rapporteur has also thought about the ideas that I have at least made, in other words, about risking, to put it bluntly, that people will be hanging out their necks, that they will always have to run for election. Has the rapporteur considered whether there could also be issues which should not actually be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124005	Excellent question. And they have already taken that into account in many parts of the world. I mean, like... We do not want to vote on whether redheads are allowed to vote or not; that would be contrary to fundamental rights. Voting should not conflict with the Constitution. In Switzerland they have gone further: there they must not conflict with the Convention. And in Denmark it will also be the case that it should not conflict with ordinary legislation when it is at local level. So there's no free choice on all shelves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124040	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124041	First, I want to make a correction. It is not the case that, because the Liberal Alliance, led by our then minister, has helped to allow municipalities to make binding changes, there is a contradiction between that and that we are not in favour of 10%. citizens must be able to require binding votes. It is, of course, a wrong contradiction to stand up and we have not changed our position. We still think it was a good idea to allow for binding votes without, for that reason, thinking that citizens should be able to demand a vote if those who want a vote amount to 10%. But has the rapporteur for the proposers thought about what to do if, for example, we are going to do so? There must be a budget in a municipality and a majority of the municipal council decides that it should be financed by leaving a school and getting the children to another school. It can often be unpopular and then it comes to a referendum and people then vote no to it? Then you need the money. Then the municipal council may think of something new if they can do so, but what if the citizens also demand a referendum on it and then vote against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124142	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124143	That is a good objection. Right about Mr. Knox. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille, who was the Minister of the Interior and who supported the Danish People's Party, I would say that it was all about the city council being able to make a binding municipal referendum. That's right. I expressed myself a little polemical, but I totally agree. As far as voting is concerned, for example. I would like to say that this possibility has already been provided for in the primary school law. It was, in fact, Enhedslisten who brought it back to the Assembly Hall, and we have taken it back in the Danish People's Party. In fact, we support that, it is part of our policy. It is clear that if people vote against a school closure, it has financial consequences, and that means that the city council has to find the money elsewhere. And there you have to be completely honest and tell people that that is the consequence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124240	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124241	Yeah, yeah, but what happens when you decide how to find the money alternative, and then there's 10 percent again. of the citizens who say that they want a referendum on it, and that ends with a majority of citizens saying no to the alternative way of finding the money? If you are not responsible for the budget voting, but can simply say no to any proposal that comes, about how the budgets are going to vote, then we can end up in untenable situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124308	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124309	Now it's very hypothetical. I don't know about any cases that have had such a course as Mr. Ole Birk Olesen describes. For the most part, people are quite responsible and, of course, they expect the City Council to deal with the economic side of the matter if they have not had to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124336	Then it's Mrs. Birgitte Bergman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124340	Thank you. I just have to say hurry up and say that it will not be with my blessing that we will have referendums in the municipality of Elsinore, because this is a very, very important issue, as the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance outlines. Because as a citizen you are not responsible for the economy that is out there in the municipal councils, but then you have to be able to help put something into a referendum, even if you are not responsible for the overall economy. I can just say, as a new member of the council of Elsinore Municipality, that there are very complicated cases. Does the rapporteur really not think that we in here, but also on the ground, are good enough to involve citizens through local councils in setting up contexts, how many, not just those who sit on the city council, but also those who sit around, are included in all kinds of port boards, local councils and representations, etc.? This means that citizens can also exercise their influence, and that means, of course, that people must also be listened to. So, I think that Danish democracy in this way is really a good thing, and I simply cannot really follow the intention of having referendums on the ground.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124459	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124500	There were many things in that question. But there's actually something interesting from Switzerland. A number of macroeconomic studies have been carried out, and Switzerland is interesting because there are 26 states and they are all very different. French speakers are far more representative than, for example, French speakers. some of the German-speaking small cantons. What you can see from the studies is that the more representative the people's regime is in the cantons of Switzerland, the more money they spend and the more irresponsible they are and that the more citizens are allowed to vote on finance, the more persistent they are cantons. So that really disproves the rapporteur's assumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124548	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124550	Is it my understanding, then, that the rapporteur has a straight line in it: that all the good people who have now been elected to the new municipal councils are irresponsible and cannot make the right decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124608	No, I actually merely replied to the assumption that if you involve the citizens, irresponsible decisions will be taken, among other things. in economic terms. That's where the research shows something else. I mean, voting is a supplement. In Switzerland, there is also representative democracy. They are urban roots, they are local politicians, they are regionalists and they are MEPs who decide, but the people have the opportunity to participate, and that is only good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124640	Then it's Mrs. Birgitte Wind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124646	Thank you. I would also like to start with a correction: it is certainly not the case that we in the Social Democratic Party are opposed to citizen involvement and that the citizens have influence, on the contrary. That is precisely what our democracy is all about. I think this is a very exciting talk and I would like to thank the rapporteur once again for raising the debate on democracy at all. One of the things we are witnessing in these years is how social media can whip up moods that can flourish more or less based statements on social media. The rapporteur is now referring to a number of studies and scientific knowledge about precisely this issue of referendums. Can the rapporteur say a little about what the social media have to do with the results of these referendums? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124734	I just don't know anything about that. You have to ask people who know about it. But what we can see is that prior to referendums there is a lively debate going on in all the media: radio, television, newspapers and also on social media. Together, it gives people knowledge of what they have to vote on. This also means that campaigns and lies can be dealt with on social media, and that is what we are fighting wildly and violently with in representative democracies these years, because social media are being used to spread lies. If you have a vote on something quite specific, it is actually relatively easy to reject misleading campaigns.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124824	Here you go, Mrs. Birgitte Wind.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124827	Thank you. Then there is a knowledge of it anyway, I can hear if that is the case. That is at least one of the things that could cause me great concern. Something else that I could also hear the rapporteur just say a little about • and it is certainly not because we are against democracy or citizen involvement • it is administrative and bureaucratic and the cost of having to change our democratic system in Denmark. Is that something the rapporteur has considered and can say a little about? All the other things being equal, if this vast amount of knowledge to which we as politicians have access must be shared with the citizens and the citizens must have the opportunity to be in dialogue with the civil service about it, then it must also require something.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124905	Democracy costs, and it will cost something more to make more referendums locally. It's obvious. The cheapest thing would be to have a king. After all, our democracy costs too. It costs to have 179 members of parliament and a thousand employees here. It is expensive to have a democracy, but in the long term it is cheaper, and it is also the case with referendums, because you get a correction and an adjustment of what you thought was good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124932	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127124938	Thank you. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen mentioned before an example with some aggregations of primary schools. I would say that I have seen municipalities that have successfully and successfully combined some primary schools, where a good and engaging process has been carried out. I have also seen the opposite, among other things. in my own municipality, Roskilde, where you just blew up a bomb because you hadn't involved the citizens. I need to ask the rapporteur whether he sees local referendums as a democratic objective or as a means of ensuring better democratic processes in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127125023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127125025	Well, that's an excellent question. It is clearly a means. It can never be a goal, because then we end up in formalism. It is the content that is crucial. It's a drug.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127125035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127125036	Thank you. With that answer, I would say that the SF is even more looking forward to the consultation that we will have afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127125044	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127125046	That's it. Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Interior and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220127125103	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 28 January 2022, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
