ParlaMint-DK_20220603100006	The meeting is open. From a member of the Folketing, Jacob Mark (SF), who is on leave, I have been informed that, from 7 June 2022 onwards, he can again meet at the Tinget. Jan Bjergskov Larsen (SF) shall cease to be a member of the Folketing as from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603100035	I think we are all taking a deep breath because we will probably have to wait for the one who has the resolution. The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603100220	Thank you to the President-in-Office of the Council and to the Left for tabling the motion for a resolution. At the beginning of 2022, we witnessed a terrible killing of an innocent woman who was just going home from a city tour of Aalborg. No one can doubt that this is a pointless and deeply tragic matter which has shaken many of us. With the motion for a resolution, the Left focuses on an important agenda, namely that all women should feel safe in Denmark and in Danish nightlife both in broad daylight and at night, as I mentioned before, in the light of the street lamp. Women's movements in nightlife should not be marked by fear of being subjected to a crime, and we do not have equality until women can be as safe as men wherever they go. Therefore, it is also good that we in the Folketing have a common goal of getting rid of that insecurity. We are already well in the process of promoting security in Denmark. Together with several of the Danish Parliament's parties, we have launched a wide range of initiatives to ensure a safer Denmark, including a safer nightlife. I would like to highlight briefly some of the most important initiatives. On 1 January 2021, a new consent-based rape clause came into force, an important step, and police figures show that since the introduction of the new provision there has been a significant increase in both the number of reports and charges for rape. We have introduced the possibility to notify certain convicted persons of a stay ban in the night for up to 2 years after the judgment. We have put forward this spring a bill which is currently under discussion here in the Danish Parliament. The purpose of the bill is to provide greater security in nightlife. With the bill, we propose, among other things. More doormen in the nightlife. We also propose to increase real-time monitoring at S-train stations and to allow DSB to use shifts at S-train stations. It should make it more secure to go home from the nightlife in the metropolitan area, and I hope for broad support for the bill when it comes to third reading next week. We have also strengthened the presence of the police in Denmark with the multi-year agreement for the police economy and for the public prosecutor's economy. Extra local police officers have been introduced, more emergency patrols have been set up, and at national level we will at the same time ensure a more robust police force with a total of 450 extra officers, and we have introduced a police guarantee so that the police always move out immediately in cases of violence and rape. In addition, we have strengthened the fight against stalking, which, unfortunately, is also one of the crimes that often affect women. Stalking is now criminalized so that in future it can be punished by prison without a prior restraining order. Finally, we are currently working on a national action plan against partner violence and partner killings on women. It is a work which I know involves several of the parties of the Folketing. All these initiatives are designed to create a safer Denmark, among others. by responding to the insecurity experienced by many in the nightlife and on the way home from there. We still have to see the impact of all the important initiatives that the government, together with several other parties, has taken over the last few years, but that does not mean that we are in target. There is still much more to be done. Just to give an example, the challenge of drugging women in nightlife is an issue that concerns a number of parliamentary parties and which I myself believe is important for us to deal with. With the motion for a resolution, the Left proposes an action plan which, among other things, is: can include initiatives on better lighting, better use of video surveillance, more night buses, development of tracking apps and better sex education in primary school. There should be no doubt that for the government it is a core priority to ensure security and, in our view, the proposals of the Left have several good elements that speak into an important agenda. We will therefore now set up a working group to look at possible further initiatives that could be included in an action plan and that could strengthen the safety of women in nightlife. The working group will consist of relevant stakeholders, ministries and authorities. And if the government is not able to support the Left's motion for a resolution without blemish, it is due, among other things, to the need to look at how possible initiatives can be financed, because it does not make sense to draw up an action plan separated from the issue of funding. In the motion for a resolution, the Left has proposed that the preparation of the action plan be financed within the financial framework of the Ministry of Justice, and we can support this, but the Left has not put forward any proposals as to how possible new initiatives in an action plan can be financed or what the financial framework for such an action plan might be. After all, the initiatives mentioned in the motion for a resolution, whether they be night buses, lighting or monitoring, will lead to the need for an economy. Secondly, a number of the initiatives that the Left is asking for belong to local authorities, and we as a government cannot deliver on that as such, at least without a dialogue with the municipalities and other relevant stakeholders. However, I think it is a good idea to engage in dialogue with relevant authorities or municipalities on how proposals could be translated into reality. Thirdly, there is also a challenge with regard to the timetable. The motion for a resolution calls on the government to present a number of initiatives by the end of 2022, but if, as the motion for a resolution calls for, there is time for broad stakeholder involvement, it is probably not quite realistic that the work can be completed so quickly. However, all these are merely comments on a motion for a resolution by the Left, which I think brings an important topic to the agenda, and I look forward to continuing the work of ensuring the safety of nightlife, including for women. So, to sum up, I hope that the discussion in the Committee on Gender Equality on this motion for a resolution could perhaps end with agreement on a report setting in motion a broad and inclusive work to translate into an action plan for greater safety in the nightlife of women, but we also see a need for the initiatives that are included to be funded and for there to be a need to involve municipalities and other stakeholders and also to need more time to draw up the action plan. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603100843	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment on Fatma Øktem, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603100847	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank the Minister for his speech and the words of praise on the motion for a resolution here. The Minister mentions a number of actions that are in progress or are about to get under way, but that does not mean that they can be included as part of the action plan. I would just like to mention to the Minister that, together with the President of the Left, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen, I have invited a number of actors, stakeholders, in this area, people dealing with this area, to a meeting at the beginning of the new year. And what the whole assembly has been calling for is a common toolbox, a toolbox where everyone could come up with solutions to make night life safer. I have no doubt that the Minister is also taking this area quite seriously. I think that all parties are actually doing that, but I would like to hear why it is that a national action plan stands in the way of some of the things the Minister says. Isn't that something you can work with each other on? Can the initiatives mentioned by the Minister not also be in the toolbox?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101002	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101004	First of all, I think it is very good that the Left has invited a large number of the relevant interest groups to meet on these issues. The security measures put forward by the government have in all cases been aimed at increasing the safety of nightlife. And the bill that we are going to have second and third reading next week, and which I really hope can be adopted, will be adopted, for example. allow DSB to have security guards at the stations, and it will give some more powers to the police, and you will also expand the measures that have been made in some of the nightlife zones that have already been adopted there is something with some doormen, some alcohol sales and such a thing with motorcade driving, where some create insecurity by driving very slowly past in their cars, through some of the nightlife areas. These are all measures which we hope will be adopted by the Danish Parliament next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101110	Fatma Øktem, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101112	Thank you very much. I do not think the Minister answered my question. We are also very pleased with L 162, which is mentioned here by the Minister, and which must also help to create security. It's just a single element, a single tool in the toolbox. But it is not just a matter of removing the party, which the minister first set up with L 162, from the streets and into the servers; no, it is a question of when people go out there, they are not insecure about it every time, but about the insecurity that I think all women in Denmark know about. So why is it that L 162, as the Minister mentions here, cannot be one of the tools in the toolbox?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101150	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101152	When I mention the two security packages that the government has put forward, it is because both of them have been slightly diluted after having been through the Parliamentary Chamber, among other things. on the initiative of the Left, which has pulled out some of the elements. This should not prevent us from cooperating on new measures to ensure the safety of nightlife, including for women. I myself think that the Left points to some relevant issues here. Some of these may belong to the municipalities, but we must be able to deal with this in a general political discussion with each other. And that is also why I say that we would like to see whether we can find further initiatives and also call on the Committee on Gender Equality to draw up a report which might together try to develop a common policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101234	Then it is Mrs Birgitte Bergmann, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101235	Thank you for that, and thank you for a fine speech and also for many good initiatives, which the Conservative People's Party certainly supports, most recently the police agreement, which has indeed been very important for creating greater security in the Danes in general. Back in November 2021, we asked the Ministry and the then Minister whether the Minister would go into working with partner killings and make an action plan in that area. The Minister rejected this at the time, which is why I can be a little concerned about whether we are getting it all here now. What I think is so important is what the time frame of this process is. Are we getting an in-service job? For now we stand here as equal opportunities rapporteurs, but of course the Minister represents justice, and then we have the whole social area. So what can we count on here? Are we going to see initiatives for the whole area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101349	Thank you. Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101350	Initiatives have been put forward and we do not believe that we are finished in this area. There's more to be done. I also think it is important to say that the experience of Slotsholmen is that new political initiatives usually cost money as well. And that's why it's hard to discuss politics detached from the economy. In connection with the last Finance Act concluded, the government, together with the parties behind the Finance Act, agreed that we should draw up an action plan against racism. Then some economy will be set aside, some policy developed and, hopefully, some measures developed that can help reduce racism in Danish society. But there has to be an economy behind it. If new initiatives are to be taken in this area in order to ensure greater security in nightlife, in addition to the initiatives already taken, I think that could only be positive. I myself am frustrated that you have to be insecure by moving around at some of the S-train stations late at night, and I can hear from lots of people, I know that they pick up their children at the S-train stations, whereas they themselves went home voluntarily when they were young. So there's trouble. Everything costs money, which is why it is also important to discuss politics and the economy together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101500	Thank you. Mrs Birgitte Bergmann, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101502	Just briefly and follow-up: shall I understand that the Minister is going to think this action plan, precisely about greater security for women, into the overall action that is coming, or how are we going to understand it? Because then maybe another year. In other words, we have had this debate for a long time, and I think we all agree that we want to have greater security for women, but also for everyone else, both nightlife and daily life, as the Minister himself says. So I'm kind of like, where does this end up?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101536	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101537	It is probably just because I myself think that two security packages have been presented with lots of concrete political initiatives that have been financed and are being prepared and dealt with in the Assembly: one security package will be dealt with next week; Tuesday and Thursday there will be the second and third readings in the Parliamentary Assembly. That is where we will take the right, concrete political initiatives, such as: to secure security at the S-train stations, so when people take the S-train home, it's not just dark and empty and a closed 7-Eleven. Then there are actually adults present at the station. That's a good thing. Let us adopt it. And if there are new initiatives, and I think you mention some good proposals here, it is just to develop it in concrete terms and present it in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101616	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101618	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I very much agree with the Minister that if we are going to do these things, it is of no use that it is not financed, because then we will not do it. But there are clearly some good behaviors in this. I find it exciting that the Minister would like to set up a working group and we would very much like to be involved in a report. One of the things that will be important to us is that it can somehow be inter-ministerial, or that it can at least involve the other ministries. Because I can get a little uncomfortable in the absence of better words because it is only the Minister of Justice who is responsible for it, because creating security in the night life is certainly not just about where to direct the police; it may also have something to do with a night bus; it may have something to do with the presence of social efforts; it is about the whole culture of consent that must come on the basis of the new consent law, which the Minister also mentions. So my question is, is it going to be inter-ministerial?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101711	Yes, it is absolutely the idea that we should have something other than a narrow legal perspective on how we deal with this. I myself have been out with Night's owls several times and drive S-trains in the West, up and down Køge Bay and in with line B, and it is very clear that the police play a really important role in ensuring security in the night life, but there are also lots of other actors, including a lot of voluntary organisations that do. And when I talk to some of the people who are involved in it, it is not only a visible and present police force that is needed; there is also a need for much else. Some of the initiatives put forward by the government in these security packages have been presented by the Minister for Justice and therefore have a very legal, Justice and Justice perspective, but I believe that some of the last thing that Mrs Pernille Skip mentions about culture is important. Now we are talking about the culture of consent, about how men and women or others are together in the night life, but it is also about how to behave when you are out partying with friends at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101814	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101816	I very much agree with that, and that is actually what my follow-up question was supposed to be about. Because when I talk about the culture of consent, I do not think that it should only be about the moment that you enter the bedroom, you have to be sure that there is consent. The discussion about what is a rape and what is not a rape should preferably also lead to a discussion about how we behave with each other and what it is okay to do with other people and what it is not okay to do with other people, even when you are in a disco. It should not only be about home alone at night, but also about feeling safe in the night Mia in general. So the Minister has already confirmed me, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101855	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101855-2	I do not want to say so much more than that we come to the debate very quickly and it is not an accusation against the author to discuss this in a criminal perspective which is of course relevant. Now I live in a place in the West of Copenhagen where there is a S-train station, and there I sometimes think about it if I come home a little late at night: What do the 15 boys do at 3 o'clock? 9:15 in the evening? Are they just running around bored? All the stores are closed. Are they going on the train? No, they don't. It's just that there are other people there. And they don't necessarily do anything illegal, but it still creates enormous uncertainty, and I think it might be interesting to have something like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101934	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As a service information, perhaps to Fatma Øktem, it is the proposer who concludes the rapporteur's round. It's like being able to pick up the debate. So now we move on to the negotiations, and then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603101959	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Left for having tabled a motion for a resolution which focuses on the security of women. Everyone has the right to feel safe in Denmark, and that applies regardless of sex. We must be able to walk down the street, go for a walk in a park or take the train, and we must be able to do so without having to be insecure or afraid, and our young people must be able to go for a walk in the city and party without fear of violence and assault. Unfortunately, we have seen some terrible incidents in which innocent young people have been brutally attacked in the nightlife. It is so unhappy and unreasonable that a young woman in Aalborg did not come home from a festive evening in the city but was subjected to a senseless crime. We know that many women are afraid to walk the streets after dark, that they do not dare walk alone, that they hide the keys in their hands as a defense or take the mobile out all the way home. It is thought-provoking, and it is sad that so many women do not feel free to go where they want to go, for fear of violence and assault. We must ensure more security, it is a core priority for us, and we cannot accept that women cannot walk on the streets because they are insecure. As the Minister for Justice rightly said, we do not have equality until women can be as safe as men, wherever they go. We have already adopted a number of important initiatives here in the Danish Parliament, and one of the most landmark is, of course, the consent clause, and then we have a new stalking provision which independently criminalises stalking. In addition, the Minister for Gender Equality is currently working on a national action plan against partner violence and partner killing on women. A number of important initiatives on the government's safety package are currently being negotiated to ensure night safety for both men and women. These are just some of the things that are going on at the moment, but we're not done until women feel as safe on our streets as men do. So it is good that the proposers come forward with this proposal to set in motion an action plan for more security for women. However, it is not as easy as the proposers suggest when they mention concrete proposals such as better lighting, better use of video surveillance, more night buses, development of tracking apps and better sex education in primary school. And then there is something you want done within the existing economic framework and presented by the end of 2022. We do not think this is realistic if we are to do it properly. We think it is a good solution that the Minister for Justice is putting forward by setting up a working group with relevant actors to look at possible concrete initiatives. That is why we will not be supporting the motion for a resolution with the reservations that the Minister of Justice also mentions, but we look forward to the further work of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Gender Equality so that we can ensure that in future women can feel more comfortable in nightlife. Thank you once again to the authors of the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603102238	There is a brief comment from Mrs Fatma Øktem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603102240	Thank you very much. The rapporteur mentions that the rapporteur is pleased that there will be a working group. That is, of course, what we are calling for: firstly, a working group of experts, organisations, professionals, a broad panel of those involved in the area. You get their input and then you call the parties for a discussion of those recommendations. Then it is not the case that we say that all initiatives must be implemented by the end of the year. No, it is a working group, that is exactly what the rapporteur also mentions. So why is it that you cannot support a working group in this resolution, but can support it when it is the case that the Minister of Justice says that there will be a working group? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603102327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603102328	Well, I don't think Mrs Fatma Øktem heard it all. Because I also said that there were some reservations about it. I think that Mrs Fatma Øktem among others. It is also true that there is a past in some regional or local politics and that there are a number of things here that are actually under the municipalities. That is why there were some reservations about this, plus that the Minister also mentioned that a safety package is already being dealt with next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603102347	Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603102348	I'm really glad about that, too. We are very pleased that we must try to ensure greater security in all areas. However, as has been said, this is a national action plan where there can be both national and local actions. That means that when you have to get someone in to get their input, it must also be from the municipalities, and then it must also be from the regions, just as it must be from the organisations. So I think it is a pity that the Social Democrats are rejecting an action plan; that is to say, a minimum for what we can expect.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603102426	Thank you. Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603102428	I would say to Mrs Fatma Øktem that I think that the Left, as a responsible party, could also perhaps at least present some financial framework for this, which has not been done now, Mrs Fatma Øktem will be given the floor afterwards, and can tell a little about it, plus that there are quite a lot of things in the municipalities and that a security package will be dealt with as early as next week. So I actually think that the government is doing everything it can to accommodate the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603102451	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. This means that we move on to Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603102458	Thank you. It is totally unacceptable for women to be harassed and subjected to violence in the nightlife. So thank you to Mrs Fatma Øktem for the proposal that I have been looking forward to discussing here today. I think most women have experienced walking on a dark road and feeling insecure, perhaps even having taken a key bundle between their fingers to be ready for defence. At least I did it myself. And for many of us, it's probably an unconscious act. But with the movement text me when you get home, we have really put into practice the habits that women have given themselves and each other for decades, because experiences in public spaces have made us insecure. Unfortunately, it is a fact that women are subjected to discrimination, abuse and harassment in the nightlife. The insecurity is quite real. And, of course, that is not the case, because everyone must be able to walk freely in public without fear of abuse. That is why I am very pleased that we have made a massive effort in this area over the past year. We have adopted a new consent law and secured stronger action against stalking. Very recently, in this Chamber, we decided that we should have a national action plan against partner killings, which, among other things, include: focus on violence prevention and on how to get the right knowledge of violence so that we can avoid it. These are important steps. But we're not there yet, and for us in the SF this is a really important agenda. That is why we certainly support the intentions behind this proposal, because women must be able to move freely and safely in the Danish nightlife, and action is needed in this area. In the SF, we want to help ensure that we have an ambitious strategy, plan, working group, what it ends up being, where there is also a focus on prevention. However, there are some challenges in this proposal. This is among other things. important for us that the funding of the possible initiatives we are making is in place so that we do not run the risk that some of them will not be implemented and that we will not be able to achieve it. This would be a waste of time in an area that requires the fastest possible and most effective action. In addition, there are also some of the proposals that we are not entirely in agreement with in the SF. We fully agree that we need to take preventive action, for example. with more and better sex education. It is also good to have more lighting in general in the nightlife. Although it is a matter of local authority, we can mention night buses here. That's a good idea. Where I'm more skeptical is among other things. In relation to the discotex routes mentioned in the proposal. I doubt what it means for women who do not live on such a route and who are on their way home from town and what it means for women who do not take such a route. Is there a risk that it will result in victim blaming, that is, that you ask women: But why didn't you go along the route we have put to you? And if you ask me, all the streets in the streets of a city are women, not some specific routes that you can take home from the city. Then I also have some doubts about this tracking app mentioned. It's kind of the same problem. What if, as a woman, you haven't downloaded it, you could be told that we couldn't track you down? And then I really wonder whether this is necessary because, as far as I understand it, the police can already track down a phone if it is turned on and if it is not turned on, then the app will not work anyway. In general, I think this is a really important area. There is something about funding, and there are also some of the specific things that I am a little concerned about. Then I think I will just say in the end that the important thing for us is that abuse must be prevented. This is not so much a change of behavior among the victims, but preferably among the perpetrators. We need to change our behavior, and it's gonna be crucial for me and SF in this, that we focus on it when we go ahead with this case. As I said, I hope that we can find a solution together in committee. We will not be supporting this specific proposal if it is put to the vote, but I hope that we can make a report in committee, because I believe that we can actually reach agreement, for example. on this working group that the government is going to set up. Finally, I should just like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they cannot support the proposal either, but also hope for a report in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603102927	Fatma Øktem, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603102928	Thank you very much. Now I know that the SF has also been a co-author of motion for a resolution No. B 73, as the Left pointed out, there was a lack of funding for. But we thought it was so important an area that it required us to stand together, because this is about cultural change and that is why we supported it. So when the rapporteur says that funding is one of the crucial things in the resolution here, which means that the rapporteur does not vote in favour, I want to hear what the difference is in relation to B 170, where there is no indication of funding, but says that an assessment must be made, and then negotiations must be called for afterwards, and that is exactly what we are saying. So what's the difference? Is this less important than B 73? We don't think so. It was very important, even if the funding was not indicated, and that is why we supported it, because it is important that in such important cases, cases of social problems, we are united.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603103034	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603103035	Thank you. I do not know all the resolutions in the Danish Parliament, but I assume that it is the action plan against partner killing that is being talked about yes. I do not know what the funding is like, because I have not been the rapporteur on it, but I know that we are working to find some funding and are very committed to it in the Finance Act. And I would just like to say to the rapporteur that I do not think the rapporteur heard all of my speech, because even if the funding was in place, there are also some things in this where I think you are putting responsibility on the victim or risking it when you say that if the victim does not have it or this behavior, we cannot help him. And that is at least as problematic, but I think we should also have financed our proposals. I say that every time I stand up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603103118	Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603103119	After all, it is good to hear that something is so important that we should stand together there and then we must find out about funding, as with the action plan against partner killings. This should also be the case with regard to the safety of nightlife for women. I think it's too bad SF isn't here. This is preventive, this is something where it requires first and foremost a change of culture when it takes a long time. We've seen that when we stand together, we get wider out, and then that's where we're going to move. That's it. Then I would just like to tell the rapporteur that the proposals are just proposals. Thank you for that! ) It may be that the working group arrives at something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603103152	Now we get answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603103155	However, it is still proposals that we would adopt if we voted in favour of this resolution. I do not understand why the rapporteur is not clapping in his hands that there is a majority in favour of making a report where we can agree on the things we agree on and then find that there are some things we do not agree on in this area. I could also mention that the rapporteur's party will not be involved in creating a public register of private monitoring. I think that would help a great deal, and the Left has said no to that. But let us try to find the places where we can in a report in committee. I think that would be best for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603103226	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603103235	Thank you very much. I think that the Left has produced a very good resolution which, as others have said, addresses a really important problem. I think that there are a great many good examples of action that could be taken in such a plan of action. But in particular, I think that such things as highlighting night buses, as the Left does in this proposal, are insanely important. The thing about being able to come home means a lot. When Mia was killed in Aalborg, I was looking at a map that drew her route. And the same route I walked every Friday and Saturday, sometimes Thursday, when I was in the late teens and in the early 20s and lived in Aalborg, and it was because there were no night buses when you had to go home, and there were not enough taxis. So we walked all the way out of Vesterbro in Aalborg and past the Hotel Hvide Hus, where it got darker and the buildings got smaller until we could last hail a taxi and come home. And it was exactly on that route that Mia was picked up, and therefore one can get the idea that if she could have jumped into a nightbus, she might still have been here today. It doesn't have to be more advanced than that, and I actually think it's one of the most important things when we talk about what to do, that we don't, as the Minister of Justice also said, always talk about longer sentences and everything else. Well, the threat of 40 years in prison wouldn't have prevented that. There are other things that need to be done. So thank you to the Left for the proposal. We are not going to vote in favour because there is no funding to do these things. But I would really like us to either have a report in which we instruct the government to call for negotiations, or to create a working group or something else where we can get started on this work systematically. Although many things have happened, it would be very good to get it together. There are many other good examples in the proposal that I could also mention. I have also already asked a question about the proposal in which I asked the Minister of Justice to explain what the police are actually doing and also what the municipalities are doing in their work across different resorts. Because, as I said, this isn't just a matter of justice or a police matter. Another thing that we also need to talk about, and which may not be so much here, is how to ensure the cultural change that is needed to make you feel safe in the nightlife. Because one thing is to be able to prevent the terrible murder that happened at Mia in Aalborg and prevent anything like it, because she is not the first, and unfortunately she will not be the last. But it is also about other forms of security. I think it was Mrs. Astrid Carøe or maybe it was Mr. Knox. Lars Aslan Rasmussen or both who said this because as a woman, everyone has tried to walk home from town with the keys in their hand and a key sticking out between two fingers because you are afraid, and that's not always rational. I remember when the movement started in Britain that many people said to me: there is no reason why Danish women should be afraid there are extremely few attacks, it goes down. Well, that doesn't change the fact that we are. And we are, among other things. also because there is a culture in the Danish nightlife, where you can hang out the window and shout for a woman who walks alone on the street, completely without any thought of what it sets in motion by disaster thoughts in her head. And it's not funny, and it's not pranks; it hurts. So when two guys hang out a window and yell what or something, they think they're having fun. If their parents hear about it when they get home, they're probably thinking, Boy will be boys. But the woman who walks on the street and hears it thinks: What if they come back? What if they drag me into the car? What now, when I turn around this corner and the street gets darker, do they come? Therefore, this is also about culture and how we behave towards each other and how we teach our girls not only to take care of themselves, but also about how we teach our boys to behave towards others. That is why it is good that the Left has sex education in it. However, it is also a question of ensuring that the rape legislation we have created, which is about consent, also leads to a culture of consent, a culture in which we behave towards each other in a way that does not do anything that has not been consented to, even if it is not a matter of rape. Summa summarum, I think there are a lot of good things in this. We would really like to continue working on it. I think it is important for there to be systematic action on this, and that is probably the main thrust of the Left's proposal here. So let us finally make a report text together. I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603103741	Fatma Øktem, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603103742	Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur for a very fine speech, and thank you for those nice words. I regret that Mrs Pernille Skipper says it is because of funding, and then I have to ask Mrs Pernille Skip the same question that I asked Mrs Carøe. In B 73, this is about a national action plan for partner killings against women, there was no funding, and the little that was written about it is exactly what we are saying. A working group within the framework of the Ministry, and then we will have to assess the recommendations that are coming. But it is quite true that it has to be broad, it has to include prevention, and it has to reach out completely so that it becomes a change of culture. However, as I said earlier, does the rapporteur not agree that cultural changes are taking place when it is the case that we stand together and when we want something and when we have a strategy and a plan for an area in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603103845	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603103846	Yes, I very much agree with that, and now it is going to be a little bit nitty gritty, no, it is going to be Danish from Parliament's platform, so I would say instead that it may now be a little technical, but as far as I remember it, our motion for a resolution on action plan against partner violence and partner killings is about requiring the government to call for negotiations, and it is therefore also assumed that in those negotiations we will find the funding. That is how I remember it, but Mrs Fatma Øktem must correct me when she sits with it. And it is at least the intention of Enhedslisten that funding for this action plan should be found in, among others. the Finance Act. One of the things we have asked the government about very, very many times about the action plan against partner killing and partner violence is where to find the funding. The government has started to draw up the action plan, but apparently does not have any lasting funding in it, and we will be very much behind them on that. However, when I talk about a report, it is because we need to find a way to get to where we have both the initiatives negotiated and how we fund them, so I would very much like to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603103948	Fatma Øktem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603103950	When the draft action plan is ready after the work of the working group, the government shall convene the parties of the Folketing. What's the difference?Somewhere I'm really sorry this is gonna be some kind of campaign thing. Is it because it's the Left that brings this? I think that this area is far too important and too serious for us to run an election campaign on this, because what the rapporteur says is so small, says, and as the previous rapporteurs say. There are requests for a toolbox with different tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603104024	Thank you. Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603104025	Mrs Fatma Øktem should listen to what is being said. Mrs Fatma Øktem should hear that what is happening here is that Mrs Fatma Øktem is being accommodated by the Enhedslisten, by the Social Democratic Party, by the SF, now radicals are not here, but lure me if not also they would have done so. Mrs Fatma Øktem is being met. We want this, we have to find the money for it. It is even the Finance Law parties that are saying that we should. So Mrs Fatma Øktem should say thank you and say that now we are getting to work. Nobody's campaigning here, not at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603104059	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603104112	Thank you. If I look a little tired, it's because I'm the mother of two young daughters who have been out partying for distortion last night, and there's nothing that can keep a mother more awake at night than when your young daughters go out into the nightlife once a mother, always a mother. Fortunately, you've come home well. We people need to feel safe, our children and young people need to feel safe, that we parents need to feel safe, men and women need to feel safe. Today we are debating a resolution on a proposal for a national action plan to ensure greater security for women in the nightlife, and thank the proposer, Mrs Fatma Øktem, for giving full attention to this matter. This is an important agenda that we Conservatives have been emphasising for many years. Safety in nightlife is very important, and that is why we are also included in the police agreement, which guarantees more officers and more near stations, just as we support municipal guards. As I said, I have young daughters to be honest with you, I feel insecure when they go out into the nightlife to have a fun night with friends in town. In fact, I or other parents should not feel that way, for it should be safe for our young people to walk in the nightlife, it should be safe for women to walk in the nightlife. Fortunately, the nightlife of most people is a positive and festive experience, but there is a risk of violence for the few. That is why I also welcome the fact that the action plan envisages that all actors should be involved in the work of ensuring a safe and safe nightlife. I hope that the government will adopt the proposal, just as the government supports an action plan on partner violence. This is something we Conservatives asked the Minister of Justice about back in November 2021, when the Minister of Justice strongly rejected an action plan in this area. But then, unfortunately, there was a killing, and there was one more, and now the government has come up with better thoughts and backs up an action plan on partner killings. It is important that there should be a work that goes forward in time and that is most important in terms of inter-ministerialism. The same applies to a national action plan for greater security in the nightlife of women, because it is no good that we talk about one thing in the Ministry of Justice, about one thing in the Ministry of Gender Equality and about one thing in the Ministry of Social Affairs. Let us have a coordinated, long-term action plan, let us include it in the working group, which has already been set up to ensure greater security for women in the nightlife, but let us not forget that security is for everyone in the nightlife. Against this background, the Conservative People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603104410	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603104422	Thank you for that, President. This is an important proposal, because of course women must be able to move safely home. It is not acceptable to hear that as the world is today, one has to be careful and careful where and how to walk around the city, and which way one goes home on a Friday night from the city • not because one should not be reasonable and think about, because whatever we do, there will always be fools and strange people who can do strange things, but it should just as a starting point be safe for everyone to move around. And I think that it may be a good starting point to get to grips with the experiences that women have around the country, because it may be that there are different approaches to, depending on where in the country you are, whether you are in the largest cities or more out there in the country. We have probably each experienced different experiences and heard different stories about what you can have of insecure experiences, and of course there can also be a difference from person to person about what you feel and experience as unsure. The solution can be many things. Something has been mentioned about better bus options and adults in nightlife like Night's owls. Today, there are also many opportunities to be monitored digitally, which can be activated if something abnormal happens, for example. if you take a different route than planned. Monitoring must, of course, be used wisely. If you are to monitor your wife's or husband's conduct and use it improperly, it can cause insecurity, but really there can be good prospects in it. Next week, L 162 will be second- and third-reading, and this is a legislative proposal that is about strengthening efforts to combat insecurity-building behaviour and crime. It would also be appropriate to address some of the relevant actions from that legislative proposal in relation to the action plan. I think it is interesting in today's debate to hear the government and the support parties, one after the other, come up here and say that this proposal cannot be supported because there is a lack of funding. When I read the proposal, it is about sitting down, grabbing relevant parties, hearing what the challenges are, what the problems are, what the solutions could be, what the possibilities might be, and making a plan and then calling for negotiations afterwards. What I am actually hearing, and I hope that Mrs Fatma Øktem will accept, is that the government and the support parties are proposing that a report can be produced which also commits to funding. And if you can make such a report, it goes further than the proposal, and so it should be something that we could take down positively. So that's really how I hear it. The Minister will set up a working group and also gave an undertaking that it will be interdisciplinary. I also hear that the relevant parties in society who could have good ideas about lifting this will be addressed. But then let us do so; let us bring together all the good proposals, and let us commit each other to finding the funding when we get there. So if it can be better than supporting the motion for a resolution, we would be happy to support it. We can also support the resolution as it stands, but if we can do something sharper in a report, I think we should go for it. So we would very much like to take part in this and I look forward to the further work of the committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603104724	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603104734	Thank you. Here we are again with another action plan from the Danish Parliament. Another action plan, most of all, is for politicians to show a little action so that the official work can be kept going and so that we can feed it and all the djøfferiet. This time it is then an action plan to ensure a safer nightlife. And who can be against it? Surely no one can be against the need for security in relation to it. Some also allow themselves to ask: Well, when you don't want to be there, and when you think it's a bad idea with such an action plan, will you not do anything to ensure that there is a safe nightlife? Yes, absolutely. We could start by saying that the Danish Parliament will stop working against the fact that there will be a safe nightlife. What do I mean by that? Well, let me give five very specific examples. Number 1: Ube. It was a solution that allowed people to get home in areas, in many places in Denmark, where it is impossible to get a taxi in the evening. In here from the Danish Parliament, Uber has been virtually impossible to act. It was a solution that could enable women and men to come home safely from the nightlife. That responsibility lies in this Chamber, that is to say, that the possibility of Uber being there was destroyed. Number 2: Then we have the police, who are currently using a lot of resources to make roadside inspections, where they completely unnecessarily confiscate cars instead of using resources to be where the unrest is, for example. at stations and in the nightlife on weekends. Number 3: Inside the Danish Parliament and in the municipalities, the opening hours of restaurants, venues and discotheques are being reduced. And what is going to happen is that you let young people out on the street earlier for hours when there is no supervision and where there are no authorized doormen and others. It was another mistake. Number 4: Now give the doormen the opportunity to do their job. They are really good at it, but every time a doorman does something consistent, there are opinion leaders and others who shout racist at him stop with it. Number 5: Let us now sort out the legal system that we have in Denmark, which is in ruins. Because it can take 1 year, maybe 2 years, before you are convicted, for example. for violence or other things. So there are plenty of things you can do, and we have to do these things to get a safer nightlife. But another plan of action? No, don't do this. Finally, I cannot help saying that I find it strange that we can stand here for an hour and have a debate on a safer nightlife, where we are talking about equality and about women being safe, without mentioning foreigners, immigrants and descendants, and the cultural problem that exists because of many years of misguided immigration policy, which has greatly made Denmark more criminal and made Denmark more insecure. But not one word from any parties here in the Danish Parliament, before New Citizens came to the platform, about the problem that the Danish Parliament has created very much in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603105058	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we are moving on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Fatma Øktem from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603105109	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank you for a very good debate. Why don't you write me when you're home? Yeah, how many of us haven't told a girlfriend when we say goodbye after dinner or a trip to town? How many parents don't tell their kids when they're going out? Besides a natural interest, many of us may have said so automatically because there is a built-in insecurity in us. There is a thought we would rather not think, and therefore we say: Text me when you get home. Or in Danish: Write when you are home. That's also why that hashtag from England, #textmewhenyougethome, hit us all so hard. There suddenly came a drug on this feeling that we all know and that most, yes, almost every woman knows and has gone along with. Thank God it is far from all men who hurt women, but it is all women who are insecure when we go home alone at night. We've all seen ourselves once more over our shoulder on our way home. We have all called our mother or a friend to give us a false sense of security. We have all squeezed, as the Minister also mentioned, the keys between our fingers for potential self-defence if that were to happen. I think we all know it, I know it too. It's not okay. The nightlife must be a safe place for everyone. That is why we want a national action plan aimed at the safety of nightlife for all. The action plan shall include: consist of a number of tools that can be implemented nationally, but which can also be used locally to increase the safety and safety of nightlife. The national action plan will set the framework for political work to increase nightlife security. The motion for a resolution should therefore be seen as a preventive measure to ensure that politicians are obliged to take initiatives for safety in nightlife. We call for a broad working group with experts to be invited to researchers and interest groups. In the Left we have among other things. suggested better lighting in the nightlife or creating a safety line that young people can call when they feel insecure in the nightlife. For quite a number of times we hear young people say: we do not really know who to turn to. For if it is an insecurity and there is no direct action, but so just an insecurity, where do you call? A safe nightlife requires more than a few measures. This requires a complete change in culture, which we can only create through broad political initiatives and persistence. This requires that we already teach our children about borders and differences. That is why we are proposing, among other things: to extend sex education in primary and secondary schools. Today, sex education is inadequate, especially in primary school, and is limited to education only. Therefore, we must teach our children to respect the boundaries of others, fellowship and differences of each other already in kindergarten or in primary school schooling. What if we teach our children that no is a no, and if we taught children that you have the right to decide your own body and that no one else is in charge of it? Don't you think that would be reflected in the coming generation? I think so. I believe that we are creating a better future for our children by teaching them about borders and fellowship. However, as I have said, the motion for a resolution here is a recommendation that we should have a broad working group which makes recommendations and that the government should then call the parties to discuss those recommendations. I think it is a pity that there is no support for this and that I started by saying to the Minister: I do not think there is a single party in here who does not want it. I don't think anyone thinks we should have a safer nightlife. But it is not just the legal part that the Minister mentioned with the security packages. Because I just wanted to remind you that Emilie Meng was killed after she left the station. So it's not just the station. It's about security, even when you go from A to B. But I take all the positive words with me, and I hope that we can continue to work in such a way that we can then get it implemented and that we can end up with a broad majority on a national action plan for more security, and not that initiatives are being taken around it, but that we bring them together. Because, as I said earlier, I hear the actors and organisations calling for a toolbox with different tools in it. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603105705	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603105732	The debate is open. Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603105738	Thank you for that, President. With the motion for a resolution here, the authors of the motion for a resolution want the government to initiate legislative preparatory work which will result in a legislative proposal that strengthens the fight against drug use and addiction through social and health interventions rather than punishment to the drug user. The government agrees with the proposers that drug abuse is a major social problem. Drug abuse is associated with major negative consequences both for the individual citizen with abuse, for the children who grow up in homes with abuse, not least, and society as a whole. That is why the government also agrees that citizens with drug abuse must be given appropriate help, just as we have a responsibility to prevent more people, especially children and young people, from developing an abuse. When you read the motion for a resolution, you might wrongly get the impression that the primary weapon against drug abuse and the negative consequences it has is to punish for the possession of drugs and that the abolition of punishment is a prerequisite for citizens with drug abuse to receive appropriate treatment and both social and health care help to get out of the abuse. So let me just say at the outset: people with drug abuse have the right to drug abuse treatment within 14 days, and this also applies to citizens who have received a fine for possession of drugs. Treatment is intended to reduce or eliminate abuse, reduce the damage caused by abuse and improve the quality of life and functioning of citizens. As a citizen, you can apply directly to the municipality with a desire to be treated. The rules in force shall include, inter alia: is seen in the light of the voluntary nature of drug abuse treatment and that it must be considered as the best starting point for achieving a good result that the citizen is motivated for treatment and sees the efforts as meaningful. However, free access to drug abuse treatment does not do so alone. For some citizens, it may be a barrier to being treated for themselves to take the initiative and regularly appear in a treatment offer. There may be, for example: We are talking about citizens who have many years of abuse and homelessness behind them and who may find it difficult to reach the established aid system, and citizens who, moreover, have too often experienced the failure of the system. We have a responsibility to ensure that drug abuse treatment is also available to those people not only on paper at the toast speakers, but also in practice. That is why I am also pleased that, together with the proposers and, incidentally, almost all the remaining parliamentary parties with the reserve agreement of November last year, we set aside 25 million. kr. to strengthen the efforts of the most vulnerable citizens with drug abuse. There are, among other things: funding to enable a number of municipalities and local civil society actors to adapt and implement an already tested model of outreach in a binding partnership. The model shall support the visibility and accessibility of outgoing employees in the environments where the most vulnerable citizens with drug abuse are involved, in order to initiate action to get the help and support they need and on the basis of their own wishes. At the same time, the agreement has provided funds for municipalities to test and gain experience with advanced drug abuse treatment in cooperation with civil society actors, so that the most vulnerable citizens can receive rapid and accessible treatment where they are staying; it may be in places where they can be in shelters. I look forward to following the results of this effort and would also like to say to colleagues here in the Danish Parliament that I am always open to discussing how to make existing drug abuse treatment even more accessible and relevant to the most vulnerable drug users. The motion for a resolution here involves a proposal to decriminalise the possession of drugs for own use. I think it is important in this respect to be aware that the target group of people who are taken for possession of substances for their own consumption is wide away from the young person who only occasionally, for example, has to deal with them. at weekend parties sometimes use drugs, for very, very vulnerable people who have a long history of abuse behind in combination with other difficult life circumstances. It is the government's view that the illegal possession of drugs is an offence that should have consequences, even when it is for personal consumption only. With the fine imposed today, we are sending out a clear signal that we, on the part of society, are rejecting the use of drugs. In the view of the government, a criminal sanction for possession of drugs can help to stem the abuse of illicit drugs. The penalty is sufficiently marked and suitable to prevent young people, in particular, from starting experimenting with the use of illicit drugs. And, as has already been said, and this is absolutely crucial, the penalty does not exclude anyone from receiving the necessary treatment. Having said that, it is important that we deal with the group of particularly vulnerable citizens who are already highly dependent on drugs and that we meet them with understanding of the difficult conditions under which they live. That is why we already have legislation that takes that into account today. In this way, the police may, pursuant to § 3 para. 1, 3. In the case of drugs, there is a danger that drug use will become more and more widespread in the Union, and that there will be a risk that drug use will become more and more widespread in the Union. However, as we discussed in this Chamber not so long ago, it has been pointed out from several quarters that the paragraph is probably there, but the system does not work as intended. That is why there has also been a majority in favour of setting up a working group across authorities and civil society organisations to look at solutions to ensure more dignity and legal certainty for vulnerable citizens with drug abuse through the introduction of an ID card or another solution to ensure that the existing system of police warning rather than fines works as intended and as intended. I look forward very much to receiving the report of the working group so that, in the light of it, I hope, together, we can ensure a solution that strengthens the situation of vulnerable citizens with abuse. Overall, the government believes that the current legislation, in combination with the initiatives that most of us have recently launched with the agreement we reached in the autumn, reflects an appropriate balance between, on the one hand, the need to distance ourselves from the use of drugs and, on the other hand, the need to curb the use of drugs and, on the other hand, the need to protect particularly vulnerable citizens with abuses and to offer available treatment to those who need it, also more accessible to the most vulnerable than we see today. Against this background, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110418	Thank you. There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110426	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I thought we might have a real disagreement here, but I would still like to ask the Minister if she believes in punishing oneself out of addiction. If the Minister does not believe it, I would like to know why the Minister thinks we should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110446	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110449	Thank you. As I was also around in my speech, there are a number of different considerations in relation to the legislation and the framework we have today, on the one hand, on the Ministry of Justice's area of responsibility in relation to criminal law, fines, etc., and, on the other hand, on both the health minister's and my own area of responsibility in relation to drug abuse treatment. In relation to the penalty, it acts among other things. to send out a clear signal that we as a society are opposed to the use of illegal drugs, but it is also a question of ensuring that more people actually start to abuse drugs. And there we know that there is a particular price sensitivity for young people, so that matters, both in terms of the signal being sent as a society by clearly rejecting it, but also in terms of the fact that the fine is of a size where it can be felt. So it is clear that for the individual dependent citizen will not do so with the law on drugs and the regulations alone. There we need the setup of drug abuse treatment, which is under the auspices of both the health minister and my own group.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110551	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110555	That was not a very clear answer as to whether we are going some way by continuing to punish people for their dependence. But I would like to ask the Minister something else: when the Minister says that it can prevent some young people from doing so and that it is important what kind of signals we are sending out, what kind of evidence does the Minister have? For the only evidence I can find is from Portugal, where we have just done what the proposal is about, and we have actually managed to reduce both the use of hard drugs and cannabis. Actually, there's evidence. But does the Minister have evidence of his claim?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110630	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110634	Thank you. First of all, with regard to this discussion on whether it is the penalty that does so, I would say that the important thing is to say that the penalty is not something that excludes anyone from receiving the necessary treatment. At any rate, I have not come across anyone who claims that it is the punishment itself that is helping particularly the most heavily burdened abusers out of the abuse. That is why it is essential that we also have an accessible drug-trafficking plan and that we have jointly made an agreement before Christmas that makes it even more accessible. I think my time has passed in relation to starting to talk about Portugal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110709	That is why it is now Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110713	Thank you for your answer. That is just not what Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt asked. Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt asked whether there was evidence that the existence of punishment prevents young people from taking drugs, that is, the criminality of taking drugs. Is there any evidence that this is preventing anyone from taking drugs?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110739	We often have this discussion on evidence in the social field, and since we are not doing these classic experiments, where we say that there is a group where we do what we think is right and a group where we then fail to do it and then we can get such hardcore evidence for it. We do not have that kind of thing, and we do not do so for all possible ethical reasons. So evidence in a classical scientific sense, I don't have to stand there and rule out that there may be something I have to go back and ask, also because, I'd say, it's something that's right on the edge of my resort if we're talking about this with punishment and the National Police. But, I mean, it is also the opinion of the authorities that it has a lot to say about whether anything is punishable. What we can certainly see from the American states and Canada, where it has been legalized, is that the use of drugs is increasing. So it is certainly something, but it is not an experiment we have made here to obtain evidence in the Danish context. However, we can look at some countries that have gone towards decriminalisation and legalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110842	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110845	Thank you. No, we do not have evidence in the classic sense that we have a test group to which legislation applies, and another group to which it does not apply, but we do have criminal research for generations, which quite clearly says that the existence of punishment is not in itself what prevents people from taking drugs. The fact that it is criminal and illegal may well have a significance, but the penalty is not necessarily the decisive factor. As Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has just said, what we can see from Portugal, which in many ways is a test group in relation to the proposal that SF has here, is that use has not increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110921	Thank you! Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110925	Without even being an expert in Portuguese experience, it is true that there were some good features and that there were also some moves that went the other way. If I understand correctly, there were some forms of crime linked to drug abuse that increased and some that fell. And basically, I would like to point out again that this risk of the total amount of people using drugs increasing, as we have seen in some of the places where legalisation has been introduced, is decisive for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603110958	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we are starting the rapporteur's round. First of all, it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603111010	Thank you, sir. President. We shall now deal with a motion for a resolution which contains two parts. Firstly, it is proposed that drug users who are stopped by the police with drugs for their own consumption should be referred to a professional committee following the example of Portugal, and secondly, it is proposed to decriminalise possession of drugs for their own consumption. One reason why we need to introduce the two proposals is that there are too many drug users in Denmark, and we in the Social Democratic Party agree entirely with that. I would like to start with a story about my visit to a social café in the outermost part of East Jutland, in Kolind, where I talked to a guy named Peter on several occasions. Peter was in an accident when he was very young, and he says about his accident that he was injured for 3 months with a broken body and received massive pain treatment via morphine, and he came out of his morphine consumption 32 years later. Peter's story about living with drug abuse is harsh and serious. It also shows that when you decide that you want to get out of it, and there are good fellowships that take care of a • so that you have both an effort to get out of drug abuse and that there is social cohesion • it makes a difference; at least it has made a clear difference to Peter. We in the Social Democratic Party fully agree that drug abuse is a major problem and that we have not yet succeeded in resolving it. We can see that this is a problem not only for society, but also for a number of people like Peter around Denmark who are caught up in an abuse that has both major consequences for them, but also major consequences for their relatives. And those people, as the Minister says, must also be offered help. The second reason for the proposal is that so far attempts have been made to punish drug addicts. That makes it sound as if drug addicts are only being punished and cannot get help, and that is not the case. In fact, when we look at the fact that the municipalities today must you, as the Minister says, we have set aside more funds to get good, sensible treatment methods. And it is also important to say that the citizens have, but we also see that far too few vulnerable citizens accept the offer, and that is why we have already allocated funds, together with the proposers, through the recent reserve negotiations, for, among others. seek-out interventions and delayed treatment of abuse. It is therefore the intention that we should come to the drug addicts with the treatment of abuse so that we can have good treatment for abuse established. We must take care of the most vulnerable, so that they are not punished. And it is not long ago that we were also debating in this Chamber how we could ensure more dignity and better legal certainty for the most vulnerable, whom I know the authors are very concerned about. And in the light of that debate, the Minister set up a broad working group to look at how, among other things, we are going to look at how we are doing. can introduce ID cards or similar so that the most vulnerable do not experience sanctions with fines and confiscation of their own drugs. However, we do not want to decriminalise possession of drugs for own consumption because we believe that it is inappropriate to make it easier and impunity-free to consume drugs in festive environments. This is not the way forward for young people to take drugs and we are concerned that it will increase the use of drugs. We cannot therefore support the proposal in the Social Democratic Party. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603111430	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603111435	What is the source of the fear that drug consumption will increase if we agree to do what has been done in Portugal? What kind of knowledge can be referred to? In Portugal, the consumption of hard drugs and cannabis has fallen as a result of doing so, because it is precisely when you meet users that you offer help. One had such a big drug problem that one could no longer punish oneself out of it. One simply had to do something else, and now one has really, very many years of experience. There's plenty of evidence that this is gonna work. Then perhaps the rapporteur could put forward where that fear comes from? The rapporteur does not have to refer to the United States, because the United States has not introduced the Portuguese model, because that is where the aspect is simply lacking with help.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603111526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603111528	In fact, I think that the Minister explained this very well in relation to the question put by the rapporteur, which is also a repetition. I can say that where I have at least had direct contact with it myself, I have been on the patrol with the police in Aarhus when they have raided young people. We're not talking about the vulnerable here. Here we are talking about young people in the party environment. I think it is very important to separate the two groups. We also know that the use of drugs can lead to exposure if you do not have it under control and if your overall life situation is not under control. That's where the cops I've been out with said the first thing the young people are asking about is: Is it punishing? And then they have to answer, "That's a fine." So we can see that the young people are actually curious about whether it is punishment. I think that is a clear indicator that, compared to this part of it, there is a very clear direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603111637	Thank you. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603111640	So the rapporteur has zero evidence apart from some sights from some police officers. I think that is important to hold on to. It must then be faced with the fact that we actually have evidence from Portugal that this is working. I've only seen drug use go one way in Denmark since I was young, and it's up. Isn't it time to do something else in our policy? Is it not time to lean on some of the evidence that can actually be retrieved from other countries, among other things? the Portuguese model?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603111712	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603111715	I have never stood for a line that says that we should not become more clever with the work of other people, and that applies both to the police and to other social policy measures. I think the Minister explained very well that care should be taken to compare control groups because it is the social area. Does this mean that you should not also be able to look beyond your own nose tip and look at other countries? I think this is essential, but I also think it is essential to hear the professionals we have, those who are in direct contact with the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603111746	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Fatma Øktem, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603111759	Thank you very much. I have the great honour of being a substitute for our rapporteur in this area today in connection with this very exciting motion for a resolution. The proposal that we are going to deal with today calls for the decriminalisation of substances for personal consumption. The consequence will be merely a reference to help and information. In the Left, we agree that both help and information in this area is a good and effective measure. However, we fear that the decriminalisation of drugs for own consumption will risk making young people who have their whole lives ahead of them ruin their future with various drugs. The current rules categorize the drugs for own consumption as being less than 10 g of hashish, 0.2 g of heroin and cocaine, 0.5 g of amphetamine and 1-2 MDMA pills, where the penalty will be a fine. Quantities exceeding these may be penalized by up to two years in prison. Specifically, the proposal creates a narrative that large quantities of substances are harmful and dangerous, while the smaller quantities are not so dangerous. It is a wrong premise that we must not plant in the population. The question is therefore whether we are really going to risk more users incurring long-term irreparable damage. When the drugs are exchanged or shared from one moment to the next, private consumption is no longer involved. The current punitive measure has the effect of preventing people from using the many drugs that flourish in society. The Left will not make it easier for young people who want to experiment with various substances. Unfortunately, however, that is what the proposal is proposing somewhere. Moreover, we must not ignore the signal value of the penalty. The penalty points out the severity of the effects of the substances. In the Left, we recognise that there are people where punishment is not the best solution, and those people must of course be helped with the focus on addiction. In the Left, we warmly welcome the part of the proposal that wants to help drug addicts, but we will not accept the decriminalisation of drugs for own consumption. One should not rule out the other. So even if there is a fine, there is still room for guidance and information.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112058	A brief comment. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112101	I have to correct a misunderstanding, because nowhere in the proposal does it say that large quantities are dangerous and small quantities are harmless. It says something about how I think we should go after the perpetrators who sell these things, but not after the users, because they can, by their very nature, be exposed. I know that the Left is not so enthusiastic about the government's proposal to make restrictions for young people when it comes to alcohol and smoking. Then why does it make sense here? What's the big difference? The rapporteur justifies this in something about the implications. Are there not also the consequences of smoking and drinking too much? Can't you become an alcoholic? Can't you get cancer? These are health problems. Why is this not a health problem that should lead to help rather than punishment? I would like the rapporteur to reflect on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112203	As I said, I am a substitute in this area, but I should like to give my immediate answer on the basis of what I have read to the rapporteur, and that is: I do not think it can be compared. You can't compare drugs to cocaine, heroin to cigarettes or a beer. I think that is far too far to go if it is the case that the rapporteur thinks they should be equal, because they are not. Today, young people need to be and there are very many young people to take it only once, after which they have lifetimes or very large but and injuries in their brains. So I don't think it compares in any way to the fact that when you're 16, you're gonna go down and buy a beer or you're gonna be 15 and you're gonna smoke a cigarette. It is by no means comparable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112252	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112255	I think that only makes sense in the rapporteur's head. I would point out that all three things have harmful effects on health. I'm not saying it's safe to take drugs or smoke cannabis. There are plenty of people in this community who literally drink themselves to death because it's legal to buy beer. There are also a lot of people in this society who supply themselves up to a weekend and live normal lives. Where's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112328	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112331	If it is only in my head, I think there are a lot of people who share the same view as me, namely that taking heroin or cocaine is not the same as drinking a beer or smoking a cigarette. I think there are a lot of Danes out there who share that view with me. Having said that, it is not because we in the Left think it is fantastic that people get alcohol abuse or that some people get lung problems and diseases because they have smoked too much. We don't think so. But we don't want to compare it to this. This sends a signal that small amounts are okay while large amounts of harmful.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112407	Thank you. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112410	Some time ago, the rapporteur and I were calling for a conciliation on the working conditions of sex workers, prostitutes, and the rapporteur and I were actually very much in agreement on this issue of ensuring better conditions for the prostitutes. Some time ago I went to visit the Jurister of the Stone Bridge and was also among others. on Nest and see how some of the most vulnerable, mainly street prostitutes, live. What I was told there was that when one of these very, very vulnerable women is stopped............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ These are some very, very vulnerable women, and what this has consequences for them, for example, is that they may not have 15 customers, but maybe 17, 18 or 20 customers that day. What is the rapporteur's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112515	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112518	Thank you to the rapporteur. I believe that we are still very much in agreement on improving the conditions for prostitutes in this area. Having said that, it is, of course, a target group that the rapporteur points out is very and particularly vulnerable, and I can say that the Left is prepared to support B 32, on which I congratulate Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt for being the proposer, to issue ID cards to the most socially vulnerable citizens who suffer from drug abuse. We support this because there is a group, as I said in my speech, for whom punishment does not necessarily have the effect it should have. However, there is a long way from talking about a group of people who have so many other challenges beyond their abuse and who are socially at risk to send a signal to young healthy people who have their whole life ahead of them that taking some cocaine is almost the same as smoking a cigarette.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112620	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112623	I don't know where to start. This is simply not how I read this motion for a resolution at all: that it is just about young people being allowed to do one thing or the other. That's just not how I read it. However, I can hear that the rapporteur is opening up a little so that we may be able to land a report or something about this group being subjected, of course, not being penalised by fines, but having some help. Nor does it make any sense to continue, for example, to impose fines on people who are as much on the edge of society as some of these women are and who, incidentally, are many homeless people who are drug users, because they cannot pay them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112655	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112659	Now I will be careful what I promise, because I am not the rapporteur on this matter. This is very exciting, and I think that is quite clear, but I also heard from my rapporteur on the subject that with B 32 you are giving such an ID card which helps to look after the particularly vulnerable addicts. Having said that, it is of course the case that I am making a rough interpretation of what it is for a signal value that will be. It is nowhere... the President Thank you. Finally round the sentence). Nowhere does it say that this is the way it is, but that is what we fear: it is the signal value of the fact that it is okay when it is small amounts.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112739	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. That is why we move on to Mrs Christina Thorholm, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603112803	Thank you to the SF for putting forward the proposal to strengthen efforts against drug use and addiction. Radical Left supports efforts for social and health interventions rather than punishment for drug addicts, and we would very much like to see international experience. We do not help people with drug abuse and drug-related problems, although we have launched many initiatives. That's a big problem. We have 80,000 people with high-risk consumption and 19,000 who are being treated. We leave too many people behind, even though there is free access to treatment. We have an excess mortality rate of 250 drug addicts who lose their lives every year. Surely we can do better than that. Yes, we need to do more. We have been working very hard on punishment over the last few years, including with solutions that are not about punishment, but we are ready to discuss how we can back drug addicts and use the opportunities that exist when the police stop people, in other words, the experiences of other countries engaging in dialogue with the person concerned. But we do not know what this costs, and it is always difficult to say yes to an initiative when you do not know what it costs. So we would like to clarify this in the process of the proposal, because if this can produce the same result as in Portugal, where the abusers before died on the streets of Portugal, then we have 250 who die here in Denmark, then we think it is a very worthy effort, but we need to clarify what it costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113003	Thank you. There are no comments. We jump the Enhedslisten and move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113026	Thank you very much for the floor and thank you to the SF for raising the debate here about help rather than punishment to drug addicts. I understand the intention of the motion for a resolution to strengthen the fight against drug abuse and addiction. If the Conservative People's Party is not going to vote in favour of the resolution here, it is firstly because we do not want to legalise drugs for own consumption. Secondly, we also believe that the law should be equal for everyone, and we find that difficult to see in the resolution here. And then we actually have some concerns when you dive into the motion for a resolution. In other words, who is to judge whether there is a drug addiction, that is, an addict? We also have some concerns about whether there may be gangs that will take advantage of this. So there are several concerns and then we have a basic view that we do not want to legalise drugs for own consumption. So while we understand the intention of the resolution to get more people into abuse treatment, we cannot support the resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113142	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113147	I have to correct a misunderstanding, because this is not a legalisation. This must not be introduced in relation to the UN Convention. It is a decriminalisation, and it means maintaining criminalisation of the sales channel while decriminalising users. This means that users are not penalised. Therefore, there will also be equality before the law. But I would like to know whether the rapporteur thinks that we can punish ourselves out of addiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113220	I'm thinking it's going on two legs. One part is about the fact that we have to send a signal that substances are harmful. They lead to mental illness, increased crime and, in the worst cases, death. So it is important for us to send a signal that we do not want to do so, in other words to decriminalise it here in Denmark. Secondly, of course, it is important that we also have an abuse treatment and that, as a society, we make treatment available to those who have an abuse and who need help to get out of this abuse. So for us it goes on two legs: of course we have to send a signal that we do not want young people to consume substances that are deeply harmful, while saying that it is of course important that those who have become abused can receive the treatment they need in order to get out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113317	Thank you. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113320	Nor do I think that young people should take drugs, and I am not saying that it is harmless to do so. The problem is that the signal that the rapporteur wants to send has not been heard in recent years. Consumption has increased massively in Denmark. On the other hand, it has fallen in Portugal both in relation to cannabis and hard drugs because it has been decriminalised. So it wasn't time to turn around and do something new? Because apparently the signal that the rapporteur wanted to send has just led to consumption rising and rising at home. Isn't it time to do something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113400	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113403	But when you look at, for example... Canada, with the experiments that have been carried out there, has not caused fewer people to consume drugs. This is a huge problem and I fully recognise that it is a huge problem. That is why, of course, it is also important that we, as a society, put up with treatment for those who have ended up in abuse and helping them to get out of this destructive abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113431	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113435	Thank you so much. Some 20 000 fines are granted annually for own-use possession, which is expensive both in police resources and administrative costs, and, as I said to the rapporteur of the Left earlier, there are some people who are in such a violent abuse that the imposition of a fine makes no sense whatsoever, but where they need some other help. And what is actually happening today is, after all, as in the example of this street prostitute, whom I told about earlier, who is taking his material and who is going out to have more customers in order simply to get to the day and the road, because he has such an abuse. What does the Conservative People's Party think about that? Because that is exactly what this proposal is trying to address, both in relation to the fact that there are just some people where it makes no sense to continue to hand out these fines because they are not going to be able to pay them anyway, but also in relation to the fact that you might actually push some very, very vulnerable people into an even more vulnerable situation by keeping it as it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113543	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113547	Thank you. First of all, I think it is important that the people who are involved in serious abuse can, of course, get help in getting out of this abuse. That's one part of it. But it is also important that we, as a society, send a signal that we do not want these harmful substances, that we do not want it to be possible to decriminalise them. We want us to take action against this precisely because it is so harmful and causes mental illness, crime and, in the worst case, death.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113617	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113621	I mean, I don't hear anyone who generally talks about legalizing, I really do, really don't. I think it is deeply serious, both for those who are in such a massive abuse as some of those I mentioned earlier, but also for young people who may just try it the first or second time and where it becomes a slippery path. So that's not what I'm saying at all. I'm just saying that what you could do with advantage was to make this individual assessment and get some professional people to look at whether it is a person who is in such a deep abuse that it makes no sense at all to continue to impose fines. If it is a person who has been homeless for 20 years and who has a massive abuse and perhaps also psychological challenges and everything else of homelessness, does it make any sense at all to continue to impose fines? That's kind of just what I'm asking. However, I hope that the rapporteur will also take part, as has been mentioned earlier, in perhaps looking at a report so that we can at least come some way along the way. So there are some people who are in a very, very unhappy situation today, and I would certainly be very sorry if we were to overlook in here the fact that some people are being pushed into, for example. prostitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113722	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113725	Certainly, there we must do what we can to help the people who are on the edge, and of course we want to be involved in that, and if we can agree on a report on it, but, of course, the views we have as a party and which I have expressed here, I think that is quite fine. For we must, of course, make an effort to ensure that people who are on the edge and who need help to get out of an abuse can get the help in which we, as a society, provide that help so that they can get out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113754	Thank you. Then no one else has any comments. Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603113807	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party we welcome the debate. We also have a great deal of sympathy for improving aid for drug addicts. There is no doubt that a combination of measures is what is needed to help. At the same time, however, I must also say that I am astonished by the SF's proposals in this Chamber, as we have just highlighted this and this challenge in the December agreement on criminal justice, where we agreed to carry out a study. Now this is being put forward under another Resort Minister. The SF's proposal contains effective intervention rather than punishment. With the proposal, the proposers want to change the approach from punishment to action that works. Specifically, it is proposed that drug users who are stopped by the police using drugs for their own use should be referred to a professional committee following the example of Portugal, as described in Kristeligt Dagblad under the heading "20 years ago, drug addicts died in the streets of Portugal. Today they are helped to control their abuse. In the professional committee, professionals make an assessment of the nature of drug consumption and any need for social and health follow-up in dialogue with the drug user. The purpose of the intervention is to provide the drug user with clear and direct information on the risks of continued drug use and to provide information on treatment options and other relevant offers. After all, the study agreed in the December agreement is based on Portuguese experience. The December agreement states: "The negotiating parties agree that, based on Portuguese experience, a study should be carried out on the advantages and disadvantages of sending drug addicts to treatment rather than to prison. The investigation will examine which prison capacity might be released by such a model. The study is carried out by the Ministry of Justice's Research Office during the contract period. At the same time, the contracting parties agree that drugs must continue to be criminalised and that hard-knocking must be done on the backmen both inside and outside the prisons and whether or not they sit on their hind legs. Of course, we can follow up on whether the Minister for Justice has started the investigation and how far it is. But what is it that the SF wants from new things with this proposal in relation to what we agree on? I do not see that at first sight. If there is something new and additional, we should take it up in relation to the study that we have set in motion. However, I assume that the SF's rapporteur will explain this later. Then we'll have a talk about how we can get it included in the work. But otherwise, I'm thinking we're waiting for the investigation in the Justice Department. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603114029	Thank you. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603114033	I was involved in negotiating the agreement myself, so I really know the text. The proposal here has been produced before the agreement, and we have had a very long run in the SF with conferences and everything else. I just want to know what's most important for the Danish People's Party. Is it that it can free up some prison places, which are, after all, what is in the text that has been inserted into the multiannual agreement? Or is it that we are actually trying to create a different framework for drug users in society? For what is not in the text of the agreement is, of course, the creation of a different system of sanctions, in which it is precisely aid that is offered instead. What is concerned about by the Danish People's Party is whether it can free up some capacity, but perhaps I am less concerned about that. I might be more concerned with doing the right thing with this group of citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603114126	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603114130	I am simply quoting what was in the agreement, and it is true that there are several elements to that agreement in December. But the core of it in relation to this group is to look at the Portuguese experience, look at how it can be used in a Danish context, and come up with some ideas on how we can proceed. And that, as I read it, is also what SF's proposal is about, namely to take on the experience and try to use them in a Danish context. That's why I want to know what the difference really is. What does SF want with its proposal? Now I also hear the rapporteur say that we have had a longer period and that it has actually been put forward before the second agreement was drawn up, and that is really just why I am referring to the fact that we have an agreement, that we have set something in motion, so should we not look at what that leads to? And if you need to adjust it, let's have a talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603114213	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603114216	But then I may need a more answer than if you say that the investigation shows that it does not free any prison places. Will the Danish People's Party still be for a proposal that decriminals users? I am busy with the users, I am not concerned with the prison places, and I am concerned that we are not chasing vulnerable people. They typically get a fine or a warning, but you also take their drugs, and that is where the challenge lies, because they have to go out and get money for new drugs when you do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603114247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603114250	Well, there is no doubt that if this proposal turns out to be helpful to users, helping the citizens who have the challenge, then we must do so. It is not about whether or not we save prison places in this context. That part is actually about helping these citizens to deal with their abuses and get out of it; what can be done in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603114312	Thank you for that, there are no more comments. Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603114334	Thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. We've been discussing this specific problem in the past with regard to this issue of getting an ID card to secure against this particular problem. And I am actually quite glad that there seems to be such broad support in this House for the fact that we can in fact get close to hopefully resolving this problem. As I mentioned earlier in some of my questions to the other rapporteurs, there are some people who are so on the edge of society, such as the street prostitute who is so dependent on drugs that they must have 10 to 20 customers a day. And it can be incredibly difficult to understand that it can be done at all. If, however, he or she is also punished and deprived of his or her drugs along the way, then it is even more customers that he or she needs to be able to pay for the drugs he or she needs. It's just like this today and it may be that it works in some places, for example in Copenhagen, where you can say that some of these street cops know the local addicts, and that's one thing: there are a lot of other places in the country where this is also a really big challenge. Now many people have also mentioned this with young people, and then you can say: if your 15-year-old gets caught with cocaine, will you as a parent have a fine 4 months later, or will you have a call within 24 hours in relation to being able to take action immediately? So there are a whole lot of problems here that I think should be addressed. What is really important to me is that you as a state do not cost much, very vulnerable people around and chase them, because it is clearly some people who are in a very, very serious abuse and who need help and who do not need to continue to get a fine which they probably will never be able to pay either. So it is, of course, a question of how we use the resources in the best possible way, and I think that is quite common sense. I hope we can come up with a report so that we can get as many people as possible involved and this can be given some impetus so that we can hopefully resolve this problem. In any case, we would very much like to be involved in this in the new citizens. So thank you to the SF for submitting the proposal and we look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603114611	Thank you. There are no comments. Now it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603114626	Thank you for the debate. I should like to welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they agree with the proposal, and I would also like to thank those parties which have been very positive here. I have, of course, put forward this proposal because I think that a new focus is needed in the approach to people who are taking drugs. We have evidence from Portugal which shows that cannabis consumption and hard drug consumption are decreasing when a decriminalisation of users combined with rapid help is done. This is an experience that I think we should take with us in Denmark, where the consumption of hard drugs and cannabis has almost only moved in one direction. It is de facto decriminalized today. We have yet to take the final step. And then the question is, how best do we go to those people? Is it with an offer of help, or is it with a stain on the criminal record and by confiscating their material, so they have to get money for new drugs? My focus is clear at least: I do not think that we should punish users and I think that we should meet them with help. In connection with this proposal, I have spoken to a number of people. For example, I had... visits by Sven, which is part of the UserForeningen for active drug users. He's in heroin treatment, and he actually came to me and said: Karina, it doesn't make sense to punish users, it doesn't make sense to take their drugs away from them, because it just feeds into the chain of having to commit new crime. Or, as the rapporteur for New Citizens pointed out, you have to go out and get new customers in order to get money for the drugs. So in the UserForeningen, they're totally into this mindset. In fact, it is also Sven's proposal. I have been visiting a fixer room in Vejle recently; that is also what is called a drug intake room. I just don't think rehab is the first step for many of the people who come there either. Many of them are extremely socially vulnerable and there will be different treatment options. Maybe somebody's going to rehab. Others need heroin treatment. And some will probably just continue to get into the fix room and take the drugs they have. There must be room for everything and for the whole palette, I think. I basically don't believe that you can punish yourself out of addiction. That is why it does not make sense to maintain the system we have today. I've been to the heating room in Esbjerg, where a lot of people have an abuse or a drinking problem. They also very often have double diagnoses, so they soothe their challenges with drugs. I don't think it's too close to rehab with them either. But what if, when we met them in the street picture, we could meet them with the idea that they should show up somewhere and clarify their social challenges and their health challenges so that we could organise the right effort and help them as best they can. I would like to say that we also had reservations when we introduced heroin treatment. What would that lead to? Would that lead to a whole lot, which would just come and get the state heroin, because it was now possible, and thus get funding their consumption? It didn't really lead to that, did it? It is one of the greatest successes we have in our society in relation to people with a drug use. With the fixerummen, it was the same discussion. Would it bring with it a whole lot? It's also a huge success. Perhaps it is time for us to turn our backs a little and wonder if we could do something else that could bring more success. I know that we have this disagreement across parties, but could it not make sense to set up a commission that ends this area and looks at the many experiences that are gradually coming from several different countries and decriminalisation models so that we could do something other than what we are doing now? We just have to say that what we have done has not been successful. We are experiencing an increase in consumption of all sorts of things. So if we want to be honest with ourselves, perhaps we could ask someone other than the police, who, after all, has no evidence that their efforts are working, on the contrary. After all, the United States was mentioned by the Minister and some of the models chosen over there show that cannabis decriminalization is increasing. I've been to the United States, too. I've been to Colorado, which was one of the first places where you went to this, and I'd say they didn't do it wisely. But that is not the Portuguese model either, and that is what I am talking about here today. After all, the aid has not been implemented and legalised, not decriminalised, as this proposal is all about. Then I will also have to arrest some of the things that have been said in this debate today. I think it was from the Left that we heard that this would send a signal that large quantities are dangerous and that small quantities are not dangerous. There is no mention of this anywhere in the proposal. This isn't about just giving up. It is simply a question of doing something with regard to users. And that's what I'm actually appealing to. I'm not saying that cocaine is the same as a cigarette, but I'm saying that we should go the same way about how we look at it. It is a health problem, it is not a crime problem. When you use cocaine, you have an addiction. I must not deny that there are some who can also control it and do not actually end up becoming abusers. I think a lot of people can. They use it this weekend as entertainment, relaxation. But why should there be a difference in how we go about something that is a health problem? That is the discussion I would like to have. I don't believe you can punish yourself out of addiction. I believe that by going to it as a health problem the focus will be on treatment and help, and that is really what is needed if we are to reduce consumption and reduce the damage to everyone. But we keep going to it as a crime problem, and I think that is a huge challenge. From the Radical Left, I heard that how much does it cost? It's true that we haven't calculated it in this model. What the proposal says is that we will build on the efforts we have. You have the right to be treated today, but it will probably cost something, I think, if the treatment is to be very quick. Because what's good about this model, I think, is that something happens right away. It must be instead of waiting for a case to go to court or a fine to come through the door some time later, where you have forgotten all about it and, by the way, do not care about it. If you have a pretty exposed life, you probably won't get your e-Boks checked. But here it is that you have to show up pretty soon after. And then a balance is made between what it is then for a treatment you need or what it is for social problems that you have the opportunity to get help with. What's good about this is that we from Portugal know it's working. So there will probably also be savings. We have not looked into this either; I do not know whether there are studies of it in Portugal. But I just imagine, and it will also save society a lot of money... police, criminal services, health care systems, hospitalizations due to overdoses and everything else. I just think that when you do the bill at the end of the day, there will be something to save and, above all, it will give more dignity to the people it is about. That is one of the main arguments for me. Canada was also mentioned. I think it was the Conservatives who said something about it, that what they had done in Canada was not so wise. I don't know the trials that have been conducted in Canada. I am aware of what has been going on in Portugal, but where mistakes are typically made is that it is not linked up to the same aid mechanisms as in Portugal. So I dare not say anything about the Canadian model, but I just know that the Portuguese model works and that Norway was close to implementing it, but the politicians ultimately lost courage when the Commission was ready with the proposal. What does that do to gangs? It can be said that by decriminalizing users, we ensure at least that they do not have to pick up new money for new drugs from the gangs and thus finance the gangs extra. An argument was mentioned as to whether the law is not equal for everyone. Yes, it is, because this will apply to everyone. So it's gonna be equal for everyone. Not least, it is also important to say that this was not a proposal for legalisation, as was mentioned by the Conservatives, but it is a proposal for decriminalisation, because that is something we should like to do. I am not sure that we have moved the debate on this very much today, unfortunately. But I'm gonna stay focused on it. It can be said that there will be an investigation under the criminal justice agreement. It came into existence because we need seats. I do not think it is the main argument that we lack seats in the criminal justice system. For me, the argument is the people that this is about. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603115629	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603115739	The debate is open. Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603115750	Thank you. In 2021, 11 patients in Denmark died while on a waiting list, a waiting list to get a body. The year before, in 2020, the figure was 18, in 2019 was the number 17, in 2018 was the number 40. It is not the case that every one of the deaths could have been avoided, but the vast majority of the deaths could have been avoided if those people had been given the body they were waiting for and who had saved their lives. When you ask the Danes if they are supporters of organ donation, there is huge support for organ donation. Yet this is how we have an arrangement, and we call on all we can to sign up as organ donor that only 1.3 million people are registered in the register. Of them, 813,000 have given full permission. 176,000 have given full permission plus permission for research. 184,000 Danes have granted limited permission to use organs. 34,000 have granted limited permission plus permission for research. And then there are 73,000 who have registered with a ban on using their organs, but they have and 22,000 have said that they do not know, but have also marked it, and thus it is up to the bereaved if one is in a situation where one dies and one's organs can be used to save lives. So thank you to the 1.3 million people who have registered. Thank you to all of them, both those who have signed up with full permission and with limited permission, but also to those who have said: My organs should not be used. I would also like to thank them for taking the decision, because it is very, very hard, difficult conversations that take place between relatives and doctors when you are in such a situation, which is almost impossible to prepare for, but, after all, you have prepared as well as possible by registering here. But when I said only we need to get that number significantly higher. It is hard to bear that every year we have so many people, so many patients who die waiting for a life-giving organ. And this week there have been a number of articles in different media where some of these stories have been made. Every single one of them touches me deeply. I know that this deeply affects all the parties' health rapporteurs. It's really Mads Sebbelov's huge work and the great popular support that makes us focus on this topic today and this spring. So thank you for the great work. And I'm meeting Mads Sebbelov myself to discuss his story and his work. But it is also important that on Tuesday we in the parties of the Folketing meet with experts, and the experts we call are therefore the ones who are in charge of the talks, namely the very, very difficult and, as I said, tough talks with relatives, to find out what is going to happen. How can we together do something where we get more organ donors? That must be what our task is. It has to be said that we are working so hard and that it is an impressive work that we are doing in Denmark and that our health professionals are doing. And every time you manage to save a life, it's great work, and you can only praise that. But we also need to look at the rules, we need to look at the legislation, and we need to look at what we can do to get more people to decide. The last time we systematically did it seriously was when we introduced the digital health card as an app on our phone. There we had a pop-up text where we urged people to sign up for it. There were really many who volunteered in those weeks when they got the app, so it has an effect when we have the debate and when we have the communication. But, as I said, we're still away at the 1.3 million people who've registered. In other words, for the rest of the population, it is up to your relatives to decide when you die. This happens typically suddenly, and then the relatives not only have to deal with it, but unfortunately they also have to deal with the question of what to do with the organs, because the loved one who has died has not taken a position. So for all: Help the relatives, but of course help not least those patients with serious diseases who need the organs, by going in and registering you. That must be the clear call. It is also to say that calls are not the only ones, and campaigns are not the only ones. There's nothing strange to me. I'm here to discuss all things. In concrete terms, there is a proposal for a new model. Let's try to hear the work experience and we will do so on Tuesday, how it will put them in their work, let's reap what is of experience from abroad. And, of course, if we agree that there should be a change in the law, I am ready for that too. A few weeks ago Parliament also held a major debate on the subject. It was in connection with a proposal from a number of parties that it should be mandatory to take a position by saying yes, no or not knowing. So you had to take a position. This is also one of the things we need to work with the parties and the experts on how such a model could be worked together in practice. Where is it to be done, and by what events in life will it make sense to ask those questions? As I said, there are no tools for which I am a stranger. I believe that every one of these deaths that could have been avoided is unbearable. And remember one more thing: we are not only doing it for the 1.3 million, because it is, of course, the case in Denmark that we are doing it for those who have not taken a position, by the way, also for those who have said no. We feel that if they need a body, we are doing everything we can to find it and to help them. Of course we do. That is why I also believe that, regardless of what we achieve through technical clarification and with the parties, something needs to be done here. I am also convinced that something is going to happen. I think I have registered it among the parties. We need to be absolutely sure of the models and that we are doing the right thing, but something needs to happen here. After all, no country has a perfect solution, but we have to make the models better than they are in Denmark today, and it is both legislatively how to make the conversation there are many things. Clearly, there is much we can optimize and can learn from the experiences of the foreign countries, but whatever you can do as a citizen, you can do, you can take the conversation with your family and friends and go in and register yourself. That's the great best you can do for yourself. However, it is not only acceptable to say that this is the responsibility of the individual, because this is a social responsibility, and I would like to announce that there will be political negotiations on Tuesday and discussions with the experts. We must commit ourselves to something happening. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603120636	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603120640	Thank you. Thank you very much to the Minister for one, I think, very good speech which highlights all the complexity of this issue. Thank you, too, for being open to the Minister to use various tools. I am personally incredibly pleased to hear that. What I really wanted to ask about the Minister came up with a little later in his speech, after I had been impressed is precisely about the foreign experience. After all, many countries have introduced a model similar to the one we have here to a greater or lesser extent and either shorter or longer ago. Then there are a number of experiences out there. And one of the points raised by the Minister in his speech is the difficult conversation between doctors, health professionals and survivors. That conversation will always be difficult, no matter what model we have. There is no doubt about that. However, some of the experiences that have come from abroad are that it will actually be easier to introduce an active opt-out model. These are the experiences that come from, among other things. England, I understand at the hearing we had not so long ago. So I would like to know what foreign experts and experience the Minister intends to attend next week's meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603120740	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603120741	Well, these are exactly the experiences that we must reap. I am aware that there has been this hearing. I was not part of it myself, but I am aware of that hearing and I think it is wise to ask precisely those countries that have introduced it here, in other words what it means for the conversation. Because that conversation is a very, very hard and difficult conversation. The idea is that we simply invite the health professionals it is doctors and others who are in charge of the conversations with the relatives in these difficult situations. That is to say, it can be presented to us what dilemmas the relatives face. As a relative, of course, you have a desire to follow the will of the person you are close to. But what if you have no idea what that will was and if they are not registered in a register? Now I mentioned the records. There are also many who have otherwise reported it, for example. by mentioning it to the relatives, namely that you should know that if anything happens to me, then I would like that and it happens to my organs. It's just as legally binding. Some also have a donor card. So there are several different options, you just need to know. Two out of three have volunteered that way. But we need to help get the best room possible around that conversation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603120900	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603120902	Thank you for that and thank you for your answer. Another aspect that we also mentioned in the debate we had a few weeks ago, about organ donation, as the Minister also mentioned, was the Ethnic Council and their report which came 4-5 years ago. I just want to know if the Minister can confirm that we can expect a new statement from the Ethical Council on the model that lies ahead here today, so we have something to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603120924	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603120926	It is also my understanding, and I think it is wise that the Folketing has approached the Ethics Council and asked them to make an assessment. There I would like to stress something about the Ethical Council. It is not for the rapporteurs, because they know that very well, but sometimes it is in the public eye that you think you can draw an answer, and then it is, and then it is in luminous letters that that is what you have to do. Typically, it is a qualification of the dilemmas that then exist. Sometimes you follow an attitude, often actually a disagreeable attitude. Then you have to listen to those arguments. So that is a qualification of the arguments in a difficult ethical debate, as this is, of course, also. It is about life and death and about people in a very, very difficult and difficult situation, both those waiting for organs and, of course, the relatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121008	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121011	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for a good and reflected speech, I think. I fully agree with the Minister that what is crucial here is precisely that we get as many people as possible to take a position, because it also makes it easier. When you have to have the conversation afterwards with the next of kin, everything else is equally easier to have a conversation based on the fact that the person concerned has taken a position and that it is not something others have done, whether it is a supposed consent or an informed consent. However, I also heard the Minister say that the Minister was not in fact opposed to any solution to this, and I should just like to hear whether it should be understood that if we now get the mandatory statement that we are expecting, and that does not prove to be sufficient, then the Minister will also be willing to look at other solutions, for example. a presumed consent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121112	I just want to say yes. We cannot continue to look at the problem of having patients at the moment we have 389 patients on an active waiting list which is in a situation of serious illness and is waiting. And we can see every year that there are some of them who die because they haven't gotten it. We know that there are still a lot of people missing because we can look at the figures that would actually have signed up, but do not get it for one reason or another, but are actually in favour of organ donation, but we are not using their bodies, although we would actually have done so, because of the current setup of rules and regulations. So all we can do to make sure we get it done, I am in favour of it. But it is very important that we also listen to the staff who have these conversations, but there is nothing I would like to reject at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121209	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121211	I am delighted to hear that, because there are some considerations which it makes sense for the Ethics Council to take a look at, but we fully agree on what the objective is: to ensure that there are more bodies available for organ donation, but it is clear that there may also be some uncertainties. What I would like to hear the Minister's thoughts about is whether there can be a risk, if you make a supposed consent, that there are some who say almost in spite of the fact that this is something you do not want others to interfere in; that is something you want to decide for yourself and therefore withdraw organ donation. Is this something that has been considered?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121248	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121249	These are precisely the elements that we must try to gain knowledge about, both from abroad and from Denmark. I might just need to clarify that when I said that there were no models that were alien to me, the models are supposed to ensure that we get as many organs as possible, but one model that is still important is still missing, I think to stand firm. Although I am a great, great supporter of organ donation and call on everyone to register, I also respect, if you say no, and that means that whatever model we end up in legislative and practical terms, it should, of course, I think that is a matter of course still possible to say for various personal reasons that you do not want your organs to be used. It should still be an opportunity. I recommend that you say yes, because I have done so myself, but it should still be an opportunity, and it is the personal choice of the individual that we are dealing with here that is absolutely central.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121342	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121346	Thank you. I am actually pleased with the last clarification made by the Minister that there were no solutions that would not be looked at. After all, this concrete citizen's proposal is that you are automatically registered, but that you should so actively opt out of it. How does the government intend to vote on this concrete citizens' proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121413	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121414	I think it is too early to say that we are voting in favour of this, because we have to listen to the expertise, and so it is very good timing that on Tuesday we have a meeting with the rapporteurs and with the expertise and with some other models in play, too, which we voted on a couple of weeks ago, namely that we are getting some kind of legal model to make it compulsory to take a position at certain times in life. How we are going to do this, of course, does not exist, but it is one of the things we need to discuss how to do it legally and practically. So there are different models in play, and when I said that there are no models besides the such basic fence posts I mentioned here, which are alien to me, there is not. Now this has been brought up, and I see it as the prime task of the citizens' proposals to bring things up, and this is really on the agenda. Now we have to deliver on it too, but in relation to which model we end up with, I have to reserve the right to listen to the experts and expertise who are responsible for the talks with the relatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121512	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121514	Just so that it is quite clear, I would like to ask whether I should understand that either the government has not yet taken a position on the concrete citizens' proposal or that it will not vote in favour of what it is. Well, it's a citizen's proposal, and we have to vote on it, so it's just in relation to the concrete. When we have to press the button, we either have to press red, yellow or green, so I ask if the government has taken a position on what it is going to press.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121537	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121538	Well, as I understand it, the Health Committee has drawn up a timetable which is that there is now time to go into the professional work with these health experts and look at what we can do for a legal, sustainable model, and I think we should focus on that work. There is time to do that before the vote would take place. One understands that it will have to be voted for the next session, that is to say for the autumn session, so by then we will see if we have a robust system that is different, or if we have something that leans more towards this. So if we voted on the specific proposal tomorrow, I would not vote in favour of it because we are engaged in professional work. But I fully agree with the intention. We need more organ donors; I think that is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121620	Thank you. No one else has asked for comments. Then it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121631	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to welcome our health rapporteur, whom I have addressed today. It was a different speech I got in my hand in the first place. In politics things can change in a short time, so you end up having a really wise decision like the one taken by the Health Committee yesterday, namely to give more time to get good, sensible outputs, inputs, reflections and discussions on organ donation. I would just like to say that what is interesting about the proposal here is that you try to turn organ donation on your head, so that you should actively report from instead of actively joining, and the whole discussion about how we achieve more organ donations is interesting. The fact that the citizens' proposal really gives us an opportunity to discuss organ donation is very important. In fact, there have also been quite a lot of campaigns to get people to decide, but it has not worked as intended. As the Minister also mentioned, and as a good colleague in the Chamber also knows, there are a lot of people on the waiting list. Some may risk dying while standing on the waiting list there are some who experience being on the waiting list so long that their bodies can no longer actually cope, despite having good chances at first. In fact, I think that is quite important to get into the whole debate, that is to say what is about the time that goes by until there becomes a body, what to say, vacant. I think it is also important that we have a discussion about being a relative; that applies both to the relatives who lose someone, where they should allow the organs to be passed on, but also to all those who are relatives of someone who is waiting. That is why we also support the Social Democrats in the process agreed by the Health Committee. We are very much looking forward to discussing this further, and we are also pleased that the Minister has pointed out that this is also about the possibility of research, that is to say, organ donation, but this is also about the opportunity to discuss what we are doing to make the research part smarter. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121917	Thank you. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603121927	Thank you for the floor, and many, many thanks to the citizens, including Mads Sebbelov and the Association 7Life and others, who respectively have tabled and supported this citizens' proposal. All of you, like one, have done an invaluable job, which I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge and commend. We in the Left, by its very nature and like other parties, think that the debate on organ donation is extremely important, but it is also a difficult debate because it is, of course, about life and death and our own bodies. It is a difficult debate here in Parliament, but above all I think it is a difficult debate in the Danish homes, if you have taken it at all. This only makes this resolution even more important, as it is important, in any case, that we have the debate at all levels. With the debate, too, we are getting more attention to the lack of organs. When we see this citizens' proposal, which has received 53,000 signatures, at least makes it clear to me, there is also a clear desire in the Danish homes that we should continue to take this debate. We can see that the vast majority of Danes are positive about donating their organs, but only a quarter have recorded their position. Now that so many have taken a position, but less than half of those who have taken a position have been registered, more can be done. And when you do opinion polls and ask people if they are willing to donate their organs, it is as much as 85% who want to help other people in a difficult and life threatening situation, and that is why, of course, it is not enough when these many positive expressions are not translated into several organ donors. My clear view, in our last debate on organ donation in this Chamber, is that a significant majority in this Chamber hopes and believes that by political means we can help more of those who want to be organ donors to do so. In the Left, we fully support the ambition that more people should take a position. Our parliamentary group therefore fully supports the resolution which was put to the vote recently. That was the resolution which was about when, for example, when you are a citizen of this country. to order a new licence, passport, medical card or similar, you are invited to decide whether you want to be an organ donor via a dialogue box or the like on the web. Now we are dealing with the citizens' proposal for supposed consent. As I understand the motion for a resolution, it operates with a so-called soft optout model. It is a good thing that Mads Sebbelov is nodding, which means that if the deceased has not taken a position before his death, it is still the surviving relatives who have to take a position on the issue of donation. I think that is extremely important to emphasise. A soft optout model, as opposed to a hard optout model, where the relatives would not be consulted in the absence of a position, makes the whole thing a little less dramatic than it should at first glance be. We have discussed in great depth the proposal for supposed consent in the Confederal Group of the European United Left over a number of group meetings, and I should like to stress to those who need to speculate on this, that this has been done in a very good, proper and polite tone. First of all, we have looked each other in the eye and agreed on a number of things, and I stress that we will not necessarily be voting as a group exactly on this issue. As I mentioned at the outset, this is very much an ethical issue, a question of conscience, a question of life, death and our own bodies. Thus, part of the Confederal Group of the European United Left is positive about the present proposal for presumed consent and sees it as a significant contribution to the active position of more people on the issue of organ donation. This section of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left also stresses that the proposal must be seen in close connection with the issue of a soft optout model, that is to say, as I mentioned earlier, that no decision has been taken before its death, so it is still the relatives who are being consulted exactly as they are today. Another part of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left believes that the motion for a resolution we adopted the other day is the right way to go, that is to say that we are introducing a model in which, when we are in contact with public authorities in one way or another, we are called upon to take a position on the question of organ donation, when, moreover, our response is not accompanied by any further consequences. My own assessment, if anyone could have an interest in it, is that it is about half of the Left's group who mean one, and about half think the other. In conclusion, we are rather sorry that the Ethical Council has not yet had a new opinion on the issue of organ donation. We were in the Confederal Group of the European United Left, no matter where we stand, ready to vote in the coming week, that is, before the summer recess, but have understood that the Ethical Council will give its opinion by September at the latest, which we are then waiting for before we vote on this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122428	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten, has asked for a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122432	Thank you. And thanks for a very good and reflected speech, I think. When I take the floor, it is really most in order to get the procedure in place, because it is clear that it is of great interest to a large group of citizens. So I'm just gonna pray, sir. Martin Geertsen to confirm that we in the Committee on Health have agreed that we are awaiting the position of the Ethnic Council in September and that it will therefore only be in the new session that there will be a concrete vote on this proposal. So there will be a vote, but with the timetable agreed by a unanimous Committee on Health, it will not be until after the next session of the European Parliament has taken place, in other words in October.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122517	I can fully confirm that. This does not prevent me, as I said in my speech before, from being a little bit awkward that the Ethnic Council has not delivered that opinion and will not deliver an opinion until September. It has therefore been a debate which has been going on for a long time. The citizens' proposal has been under way for a long time, and that is why I am sorry that that statement is not there today. But on the other hand, I think it is important that the Ethical Council should make a statement on this issue, and I can confirm that. Peder Hvelplund's sketch of what it is then for a schedule.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122556	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122557	I'm kind of sharing sir. Martin Geertsen's annoyance that we are in this situation, but I also think it is reasonable that we should have a new opinion from the Ethical Council. In the same way, it can be said that the decision on compulsory voting also has an impact on the decision we are going to take, depending on how that model is drawn up. So there may also be some advantages to it, but I basically agree that it is a pity that we are in the situation now, that we are dealing with it first and then will not vote on it until October.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122630	Yeah, and I really don't think I have anything else to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122639	Thank you. Then it's mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122645	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for a very good speech, which comes on a complex issue which I can understand in the rapporteur's group, as I imagine in several other groups too. I would like to know whether the rapporteur has any idea of combining the different models. Now we have discussed this here with mandatory position a few weeks ago in what can we say, the context of the model we have today, but has the rapporteur thought about how it could play along with this proposal for an active opt-out instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122706	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122708	Now I'm going to go a thin line, as it is called in New Danish, because I'm going to try to represent a parliamentary group where there are slightly different positions in relation to this. But, objectively speaking, I do not see any confrontation logically in this way. I should like to emphasise between making information and asking people, in connection with ordering a driving licence or anything else on the Internet, and then on the other hand having the supposed consent, especially when it is combined with the soft optout model, the fact that the relatives will be consulted, if you have pushed past all kinds of dialogue boxes, when you have ordered a driving licence and health certificate and such. So logically I must stress that I do not see any built-in conflict in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122806	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur on this. And I also share the rapporteur's vexation that we have not received a new statement from the Ethics Council. It was something that was also up during the last debate, and that is why I think it is a pity that we have not had it. As the Minister said, it is not because it determines what we are voting here, but it is good to clarify complex ethical issues from several sides. So this is not really a question, but more of a comment. I agree with the rapporteur. I am, in fact, ready to vote next week, but I think it is wise, as we decided and agreed in committee yesterday, to shoot it until all the people have the basis for decision in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122838	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122839	Yes, and I can confirm and underline that regret once again, because I think this has been going on for a long time. And, as I said before, I can at least say with serenity that we in the Confederal Group of the European United Left have had a great deal of discussion on this issue and it has also been a debate that has been running in public for a long time. So, yes, it is a pity that we cannot make a decision here before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122907	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603122915	Thank you for the floor. And thank you to the citizens who, with Mads Sebbelov in the lead, have put organ donation on the agenda once again. I can't think of a greater grief than losing a child it should just be knowing that the child could actually have been saved with an organ donation. I therefore also have the greatest understanding of the citizens' proposal that we are discussing today. There is little doubt that supposed consent, as it is called, can increase the number of donors for the benefit of citizens who need organ donation. I also think it is true that there are several citizens who would like to donate some or all of the bodies, but who have just not made the decision in time. However, the scheme presupposes that citizens who, for various reasons, do not want to donate bodies themselves will resign. There is reason to assume that there will also be citizens who just do not get it done, and so it will also leave relatives of potential donors with a doubt as to whether it was actually in line with their wishes. We have been discussing this issue for many years, and I have also been discussing it for many years, and it is a declaration of failure that we have not in any way moved on to views or solutions. That is why I am also pleased that in the spring it proved possible to obtain a majority in favour of a resolution which means that as citizens we should have the scheme involving all adults deciding whether or not to donate organs and which. In this way, we will seize the many who just do not get a position in time, and we will ensure that the survivors have no doubt as to what the person himself wanted in relation to organ donation. For just as difficult it is for patients waiting for the life-giving organ, it is equally difficult for relatives who have to say goodbye to a potential donor. We have just been convened for the first discussions on such a scheme, and I look forward to it being possible, hopefully, to present a viable and improved solution to organ donation for those patients who will benefit from it soon. I also believe, however, that we can usefully include this particular citizen's proposal in further work, which is why I also hope that we will agree that a vote can wait so that we can reverse all the possibilities in the forthcoming negotiations. Once again, thank you to those of you who repeatedly put this important subject on the agenda. We look forward to being able to present a concrete solution, hopefully very soon, which will actually last in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603123210	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603123223	Thank you very much, President. I would like to start by congratulating Mads Sebbelov, in particular, for having collected enough signatures to have the citizens' proposal debated here in the Assembly Hall, but also congratulations to all of you who have backed up along the way. It is in itself a great achievement. I still remember clearly the first time I talked to Mads and he told me about Josephine. It's been, like, six months after he lost his daughter all too soon when she was only 15 years old. That conversation impressed me very much, and no doubt every parent can instinctively understand how indescribable it must hurt. Josephine died, as we all know, waiting for a new heart. And on the basis of Josephine's premature death, Mads has worked hard to secure more organ donors in Denmark. The fact that he has been able to do so so soon after losing his own daughter is very impressive to me. Today we can read in Politiken about Julie, who also supports the proposal we are discussing here today. She lost her 9-year-old son Theodor, but chose to let his organs save the lives of four other people. It is at one and the same time beautiful and tragic, and it shows why this debate is so extremely important. But this is not the first time I have been familiar with the model being proposed here. And actually, I've moved on to the question myself. I first became aware of the proposed model with active opt-outs from Lasse Heidelbach and his organization. My first spinal cord reaction was resistance, but much on the basis of the same reasons that I also hear in several places in today's debate: we are not reserve doctors; the state does not own my body; we must have bodily autonomy. I fully agree with all of this, and the more I dug into the proposal here, the clearer it became that there is no contradiction. There is no compulsion, and the individual can always decide his own body; that does not change. I can also hear that there is sympathy across parties for the objective of securing more organ donors, but perhaps not quite agreement on the way there. After all, it has not been so long since we discussed in this Chamber a proposal to make it compulsory to take a position on organ donation. And on that basis, as you know, we have all been invited to negotiations next week. Today we have a system in Denmark where you must actively say yes to being an organ donor. At the same time, we can see that, although the vast majority of us would like to be organ donors, there are still a great many who have not just registered, and that is clearly the weakness of the active option that we have today. The citizens' proposal is to reverse the model and assume that, as a starting point, you want to be an organ donor, but that you can of course choose to say no. Will this proposal solve all the challenges we have? No, but the experience of the many countries that have already introduced this model shows that it will make a marked difference especially when it is coupled with debate and information, which will undoubtedly happen. Organ donation with active opt-outs can be easily combined with the mandatory position on which there is broad agreement here in the Folketing. And, overall, looking at foreign experience will increase attention and attitude. It is important to stress that the model here does not make organ donation a duty, or that the state determines your body. No, it is still entirely up to you whether you want to say yes or no, just as the doctor will of course talk to the survivors, namely the so-called soft optout model, which the Left rapporteur mentioned earlier. Interestingly, we have learned from among others. England that the model of active opt-outs as proposed here will make the conversations between the doctor and the survivors easier. It should also be borne in mind that implicit ethical assumptions are inherent in the current model. Both approaches assume to know what the individual will choose. Today we assume that one does not want to help others with one's organs after one's death, and one must actively say yes; with the citizen's proposal here we assume that one wants to save others' lives when one is away, and one must so actively say no. Both models have ethical assumptions and both models have consequences. However, if we now know that support for organ donation is very high in the population, but that many do not actively sign up, then one can argue that the proposed model here is better in line with reality than the current model is. We look forward to the further debate in committee and we look forward to the new statement by the Ethics Council, but in the Radical Left we support the proposed model as it stands here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603123705	Thank you for that and there are no comments. Let's move on. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603123715	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for raising this debate again. It is clear that I believe that this is something that will deeply affect all of us, both when the debate comes up, but also, of course, especially with a background in the history that precedes this resolution, and of course also the stories that we are constantly seeing in the daily press. I think, in fact, that the most positive thing about it being brought up is that we shall have the debate again. For one thing that is clear to see is that every time we discuss this subject, it has a specific significance for how many people decide whether or not to sign up as an organ donor. I would say that, for the Enhedslisten and for me, it is absolutely crucial that this should be a matter of personal decision-making; that it is an issue that you consider yourself, but that it is also a matter that you discuss with your loved ones who are most affected when you are in the situation. We know this from the specific case here, and we know that in general terms, and when we have to make that decision, it is therefore nice that we know what the person concerned himself wanted to do with it, and that is the way it is, whether we end up with an informed or a supposed consent. Whatever the case, it is because someone has taken a position in advance that either you want to donate or you do not want to donate as a starting point. That is why I think it is absolutely crucial that as many people as possible should take a position, and that is what we are also going to be discussing here next week. And I am very pleased with the resolution that was adopted, which deals with the mandatory position, because it ensures precisely that we ensure that the effect that we can see every time we have the debate is sustained because people are constantly being asked to take a position. This is ethically difficult, and I am actually in favour of people being given the opportunity to say that they have not taken a position, that they do not want to take a position yet, but that they are then constantly reminded of it and asked to take a position. Because I think it is a decision that lies with the individual and that it is crucial that the individual should also have the opportunity to discuss it with his or her relatives. Then there is the question of what we should say as a starting point. Is it that people want to donate, or is it that people do not want to donate? I think that was an excellent speech, as Mr. Stinus Lindgreen held. I have also had the same immediate opposition to it. Maybe I don't have that much longer. I can certainly see some perspectives in this, but what is central to me is still gone, how to ensure the involvement of the relatives in relation to it. So in addition to the fact that I think it is really a pity that we do not have a position from the Ethical Council, but that we only have it back from 2017, I can also see that there may be an advantage in having both clarified where the Ethical Council is in relation to it, not because it should be defining what we decide, but it is nice to have their reflection on it; that is also what we have them for • but that we also have a concrete model of mandatory position, because it also has an effect, in terms of what it means, whether we choose an informed or supposed consent. So I look forward to our taking a position on this, and I think, in any case, that there is the possibility, when we make new legislation in relation to mandatory position, that we can also see what that development is like with regard to registering for the Donor Register. And if it does not have the desired or sufficient effect, I think this is an excellent proposal to proceed with. In conclusion, I also think it is important to remember that this is not just a fight to get to the right solution. Because I believe that there will always be a discussion about what the right solution is. So it's always a dynamic discussion about how to make sure we solve this problem best. How do we ensure that we get as much involvement as possible of the relatives? How do we ensure that we get as much as possible registered to the Donor Register? That is why it may not be just about the model. It is also about what kind of approach we have to it and what kind of discussion we have about it. In any case, it is absolutely invaluable that there are citizens who have a surplus, even if they are in a personal crisis, to bring this up to the level of society, so that we will have the discussion here in the Chamber as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124212	Thank you. Sir. Stinus Lindgreen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124215	Thank you for that, and thank you for a very good speech to Mr. Peder Hvelplund. I think the rapporteur is quite right in saying that there is not one thing that solves the problems we are facing here, but that there are many things that together can give the effect that it has, and I also agree with the rapporteur in • if I heard the rapporteur correctly • that the objective is not, in such a way, that we should have everyone say yes, but that we should have people take a position, and a yes and a no are both perfectly legitimate answers, just as it is perfectly legitimate not to know where we stand yet. I fully agree with the rapporteur and, looking at the experience of other countries, this suggests that the model, as here with an active opt-out, combined with asking people to take a position combined with the debate that we are getting just because we are standing here today, is helping more people to take a position. So it's actually mostly a comment, i.e. that I think we need to look at this widely and that I think we agree completely that the goal is to get as many people to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124306	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124307	Yes, I fully agree with that. What is crucial is that we get the discussion not only in this Chamber but also widely in society, that there are newspaper articles that illustrate the problem, which illustrate the dilemmas, because it leads to more people taking a stand, and I fully agree with it that we have to look at it broadly. There's not just a quickfix that solves this problem, but it's both about • and that's also what I was trying to stress • what kind of models we're using, what kind of initiatives we're using, and it's also about what kind of general debate we're having in society. And it is clear that every time we discuss it we can see an effect, and that is also why I think it is very sensible that we should now look at the issue of a mandatory position. We will have a new assessment from the Ethical Council, and hopefully we will be able to create a unified model based on it. I also think it is important that this is something that we are constantly going to evaluate because there is no finished package compared to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124404	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Larsen, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124417	Thank you for that, President, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for bringing this motion to the Chamber. In any case, as others have said, this is of great value, because the more debate, the more donors. Because what this is all about is that we need as many people to take a position as possible. We have quite recently adopted a motion for a resolution here in the Parliamentary Assembly, to which others have also referred, which is that we should be reminded regularly that when we are in the public domain, we should take a position, and that is one of the things when we turn 18 years of age and the public authorities send a copy of the basic law to young people, and it may be when we acquire a driving licence, a health card, renew your passport or otherwise that we are reminded that we should then take a position by saying: I want to be an organ donor, I do not want to be an organ donor, or I do not know. We in the Conservative People's Party think this is a very good model, for which we have actually been fighting for a very long time, and now we have finally succeeded, and we are pleased about that. Because it will certainly give significantly more organ donors than what we have seen so far, where things have gone a bit sluggishly. However, we are reasonably optimistic about the fact that that model is going to give significantly more. We saw it in relation to the app that was launched, where you just ask, and then it gives some more. So the fact that people become aware that they need to take a position gives some more donors. It's heartbreaking to be in a situation, and it's a terrible situation, and it was actually Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen who said it so well if you have to say goodbye to a child and you lose a child, but even worse, if it was so that there had been an opportunity that you could have saved that child and that it has been missed for one reason or another. This is quite awful, so we need as many people to report from or through as possible, and we know that all the studies show that there are a lot of people who would like to sign up, but that they just haven't got it done, and we have to help them with that, and the motion for a resolution B 65 does. Then a process has been set in motion, as others have said, in relation to the fact that yesterday the Health Committee had a discussion with the Ethics Council, and now we are asking them to make a statement. So there is a process in progress which we are also looking forward to taking part in the debate on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124706	Thank you. Sir. Stinus Lindgreen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124708	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. This is a difficult matter; I think we all agree on that. These are complex ethical issues we are discussing here. The rapporteur says that we must ensure that as many people as possible take a position, and I fully agree with that. The rapporteur was at least involved in some of the hearing. Per Larsen took part in the whole hearing we had here some time ago, but one of the things that was mentioned was from Iceland, as far as I remember, where it had been assessed whether mandatory position was enough in itself or whether one should use the model that we have here. The latter was then chosen because experience was that mandatory positions were not enough. So when you look out into the world, it seems that the combination of the two measures, i.e. both having an active opt-out and asking people to take a stand, actually gives the best effect. Did Mr. Per Larsen any comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124759	Well, as a starting point, I think we should do everything we can, but when I have said it, there is also a limit, and that is the thing about you per. automatic is organ donor. As a starting point, I think that this is a difficult sea to sail into, because it can therefore give rise to some problems which are inappropriate. That is also why we are so keen that we simply have to make the choice that the individual has to make the choice. You have to do that yourself, you have to do it too, and we all have to do it: make the choice. Will we, or will we not, or would we rather not make the decision ourselves and leave it to those who will then make the decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124842	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124844	Thank you for that, and I fully agree with that. It's a difficult discussion, and it's hard for the bereaved. And I fully agree with the rapporteur that, of course, it must always be the person who decides, and I think it is important that, when we have this debate, we ensure that it is communicated to the people. It is not a matter of deciding the bodies of the citizens. In the end, it is always the self-determination of the citizen and the survivors who judge what should happen. So I just want to hear whether the rapporteur does not agree that even if it ends up with a model like this one with active opt-outs, it is always up to oneself to decide whether it should be a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124915	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124916	I agree with that so far that it also makes it necessary to take a position, and that is where there may well be some people who may not get it done, and then we have the problem, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124933	Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. There's a new rapporteur, and that's sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603124952	Thank you for that, President. Organ donation is a really difficult and dilemmay issue because, on the one hand, we have some who need the organs, who are more or less desperately looking for how it can be possible to get the organs they need, and, on the other hand, we have some relatives who have a reasonable right to decide for themselves what to do with the organs of the deceased. What I also hear from all the rapporteurs is that what is at the heart here is that we get as many people as possible to take a position and that we not only take a position as a person but also take a position with our family, because the unfortunate thing is also if you have taken a position as a person, but then the family has to deal with something they did not know about. Then there is also a difficult dilemma. That is also what I am reading in the proposal we are debating here today. It describes how important it is that you consider and make that decision not only with yourself, but together with your relatives, so everyone is informed about what you want as a person, and so the relatives have also been involved in taking a position on what they will think when they then stand there and have to take a position. When I was sitting here during the debate, I was just trying to see how easy it is to come in and take a position. If you go to citizen.dk, you actually have to apply a little to find something about organ donation. If you go into health.dk, it is the same. There are none of the places where it is placed, so it is easy to read about it, easy to get some information and easy to decide on. We in the Danish People's Party believe that the motion for a resolution that we had for a debate recently, B 65, which is precisely about demanding that a position be taken, is really central and we think that the debate is really central. So, what is at the heart of this is that we have a position, and the debate we have today also helps us to think about it and go home to the family and take up the discussion and take a position. After all, we should like to see many, many more taking a position, because the worst thing is, in fact, that we do not relate to it. That is why I am also pleased that we have postponed the second reading and the vote on this proposal until we have had a broader debate and have led the Ethics Council to make a new statement and a new assessment of how they view it here, and to take the discussion with the various parties to which the Minister has invited us next week, so that we are actually dressed for it. One might say that we should be dressed for it and that we should have taken this discussion a long time ago, but when we do it now, I think we should do it properly, and I think we should also take the time by saying that we now have a few months to discuss it here, and then we will take this particular proposal up again in this Chamber and get a vote on it again. It is not the vote that I am interested in. I am more interested in finding solutions that create the debate and interest and make more and more people take a stand. That must be what's at the heart of this. I would really just like to look forward to having a good treatment and discussion of this for everyone's good. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603125343	Thank you. There are no comments. The next one is sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603125350	After I had kissed my two little girls, Anna and Agnes in 5 years and 8 years, goodbye this morning like this quarter past five, I drove by car across Jutland, Funen and Sjælland to come over here, and while I heard P1 Morning, where Mads Sebbelov was with me and told his story, he also mentioned that we were going to discuss this citizen's proposal today. I think you have to be awfully cynical if that story doesn't touch and hit you, and it happened to me when I was sitting there in the car after saying goodbye to my kids in the morning before I left home. So it hit me. When I entered politics, I made the decision that I will always allow myself to change my mind if I feel like it, or if I think I have become wiser after hearing some arguments, or because the world has changed as I mentioned. I am not going to stand firm on anything if there are arguments or anything pointing the other way. I will allow myself to become wiser. I will allow myself to change my attitudes, and then people can shoot me in the shoes that I've changed my mind or something. I'll do it if I think I'm smarter. I cannot support the concrete citizens' proposal as it stands and as it is drafted here. I can't, because for me this is something absolutely fundamental. It should be borne in mind that the citizen's proposal here is that we should actively say no if we do not want to be dons, and then it becomes something absolutely fundamental to me. For our lives are our own and our bodies are our own; it is neither the state nor any other community. That must and must be the starting point. You could say that our body in this way is our property. Therefore, the principles of the right to property also apply here, in my understanding. If you want to give up such a fundamental right as you have, that is, the property above your own body, then I think it should require active consent, an active choice. The citizens' proposal here is designed in such a way that it goes the opposite way, i.e. that your bodies are basically the community, the state and not your own, and I cannot support that, i.e. the way it is formulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603125633	Thank you. There are no comments. As there are no more rapporteurs present, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Health Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603125703	The debate is open, and it is the Minister for Health first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603125714	Thank you. The point here is that by October this year the government is to table a bill on involuntary childless children. Let me start by saying that it is important that there is the possibility that involuntarily childless people may receive fertility treatment. This means that those women, the couple who cannot have children themselves, are helped to have children. This is something we have become more skilled at, and it is positive, and it is for the benefit of these people who want to become parents and, of course, of the children we get out of this. For society as a whole, it is also beneficial. That is why I fully agree with the intention, that is, the intention to ensure good conditions and help to involuntarily childless people. We agree that there is a need to strengthen efforts to combat involuntarily childless people, and we believe that this should be done by ensuring that the fertility area in Denmark is designed in such a way that the resources we have are used as best as possible for the benefit of the women and couples concerned. In 2019, where the most recent figures I have are from, about every 10 children came into the world as a result of some kind of fertility treatment, and if you compare it to 2013, it was in 2013 every 12 children. This means that it is quite rapidly moving in a direction in which more and more people need help. The experts have many different explanations and they refer, among other things, to: that we have also seen during that period that the average age of first-time feeding has been increasing. However, regardless of the different explanations, the conclusion is that more and more citizens need help to have children, and thus we have a fertility treatment which has improved, but where there is also increased pressure on resources, among other things. staff resources, and that is why I have said that we need to think, and it is not for me to see an opportunity just to do more of the same, we will also have to think again. Let's try to zoom in on this very proposal to see if it's up to it. The first part of the proposal is about what is described as an investigation and treatment guarantee, and that would mean increasing the involvement of private fertility clinics, because that would be the logical consequence of such a system. But will it solve the problem of reducing waiting times for fertility treatment when we know that there are limited resources, limited staff resources here in Denmark? Staff are an essential condition for the implementation of fertility treatment, and the limited staff resources will not increase if more private treatment facilities are used, because more staff are not being enchanted for this reason. On the contrary, we run the risk that staff will, of course, turn to the private sector, where they will most often be able to offer higher wages, which means that, overall, we will not have shorter waiting times for those couples who need it. It is my belief that the public health service must provide a good offer to all patients, of course also patients who need fertility treatment, and that our public health services should be protected, which must also be able to deliver when it gets complicated. This is typically where the public health services take over, and it is also the public health services which train staff to a large extent, that are responsible for research in this area. That is why I doubt that such a system of so-called right of treatment would give more women and couples more rapid access to treatment. You can even risk the opposite. The second part of the proposal concerns the number of test tube treatment trials, what is known as IVF treatment, and it is our regions, the five regions themselves, which determine how many experiments are to be offered in the framework of legislation for childless women and couples, and in the hospitals of the region, both insemination treatment and test tube treatment are provided, and it is the practice of the regions that three insemination trials and three test tube trials are offered. If insemination is not an option it may be if you have closed fallopian tubes, it may be such a thing that only three test tube treatment trials are offered, and thus there is a current regional practice with three test tube treatments. It is not legal, it is not the Folketing that has made the law, it is the three experiments that are being offered today, and it is the practice that the regions themselves have set. This also means that the regions also have the opportunity to decide whether they want, for example. to increase the level of service as it will then be by offering up to six test tube treatments. There, of course, they must also be given the opportunity to have the manpower needed and, of course, also the health profession which must be able to carry out that task, if necessary, they will decide on it. But this is not something that we have legislation that prevents here in the Folketing, and I do not think it should be. There is also a third element in the proposal here relating to paid fertility treatment for child no. 2. As I mentioned at the outset, the government's position is that there is a need to strengthen efforts towards involuntary childless people, and we believe that this should be done by ensuring that the fertility area in Denmark is designed in such a way that the resources are used as best as possible for the benefit of those who are most in need of the women affected and the couple affected. And the legislation provides that in the hospitals of the region fertility treatment is only given to childless lone women and to childless couples, i.e. couples who do not have joint children. Fertility treatment is therefore only offered to the woman's first child or the couple's first joint child. So in the hospitals in the region, both insemination treatment and test tube treatment are provided, as I mentioned earlier. There is also an exception, and the exception is, if it is a woman or a couple who have already had a child by means of test tube treatment in a hospital and still have frozen fertilized eggs, the hospitals can set up the eggs so that the woman or the couple can have more children, and that is until the woman reaches the age of 46. The rule that fertility treatment can only be given to childless people applies only to fertility treatment in a hospital. The restriction does not apply in relation to treatment by private practitioners. In specialized practice it is therefore possible to receive insemination treatment because insemination treatment is covered by the current agreement between what is called the Regional Salaries and Tax Boards and the Association of Specialists. So it is possible to receive insemination treatment in specialist practice to have more children, but test tube treatment is not covered by the specialist agreement, so if a patient chooses to receive test tube treatment in specialist practice, the patient must pay for the treatment himself. So it is only when the more demanding, more costly test tube treatment is needed that only the first joint child is being assisted today, and this is a very high priority for health care resources when legislation restricts access to test tube treatment in public hospitals. As I started with my introduction, the government recognises that there is a need to strengthen efforts towards involuntary childless people. Now I have examined the three elements, and I think that my review leads to the conclusion that the proposed measures here are not the way forward, so that the government cannot vote in favour of this proposal, but instead we believe that the fertility area in Denmark should be organised in a way that will make the best use of resources for the benefit of the women and couples concerned, and therefore, in the view of the government, we should work more decisively to reduce the need for fertility treatment. This requires efforts from many sides, and it requires both structural and cultural changes in our society. So this is not something we can only do in the health care system. In the view of the government, the first step is to examine what we can do to prevent the reduced fertility, which is a social problem and which therefore seems to just continue in Denmark, but also in many, many other countries. From the government's point of view, we propose specifically to start work on identifying the health factors that may affect fertility, thus ensuring that we have sufficient knowledge of fertility. In addition, we will start work to ensure that there is sufficient knowledge in society about fertility. For a prerequisite for making qualified decisions about when we choose to have children, knowledge is about how factors such as: age affects fertility. That is what some of the experts have said. In our view, these are the first steps on the way to ensuring help and support for involuntary childless people and to help ensure that the fertility area in Denmark is designed in such a way that the resources are used in the best possible way for the benefit of the women and couples concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603130700	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603130702	Thank you for the floor, President, and thank you to the Minister for the speech. That was kind of a nice speech. The only problem is that it was basically the same thing that was said to the undersigned by the Minister on one of the questions I put to the Minister last April. So, unfortunately, we have not made much progress here over a year later. Compared to the capacity of private clinics, it is true that there is already the available capacity in private clinics, and that is why some people are already using them. The only problem is that those who go to private clinics are the ones who can pay for it. What about all the others? What about the young couple in the end thieves, where the guy has low sperm quality and the girl may have had a conic and therefore cannot get pregnant by nature? What about those couples? If they do not have the economy to do so, they are at the mercy of today, because if they do not succeed in the three treatments, that is just a pity. We think this is really, really inappropriate. We also find it very inappropriate that there is such a long duration of treatment in certain regions. Then I have to say that when we know exactly from the WHO (Thank you!) that this is recognized as chronic disease, does the Minister not acknowledge that it is a chronic disease, and if so, is there a difference between the Minister's term for chronic disease?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603130819	Thank you for that! Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603130822	Thank you for those questions. This area, as I mentioned, is under pressure in Denmark and many other countries, and it is a social problem. When, as I mentioned, every tenth child born is born after some form of fertility benefit • and there are many different kinds of • it shows how wide it is in our society. But we do have limited resources and also limited staff resources, so it is of no use to say: then the staff can just move somewhere else, at another clinic, perhaps to a higher salary, and that's fine for them. But we will not get anything out of that in relation to the people who need it. We are not getting any more staff out of this proposal, and that is why I would insist that when we have a problem with this, and it is true that it can be described as a form of chronic illness, it is also, as with many other chronic diseases, that we can prevent, and that is what we need to focus on too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603130924	Thank you. Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603130927	Nowadays, if you go to a private clinic, you can get faster help, and that's why the Left has set 125 million. kr. on our draft budget. We did so last year, and of course we will do so again this year. I am just sorry to see that the government does not choose to give priority to this area when we see, as the Minister himself says, that one in ten citizens will never ever have the children they dream of, and when we see that it is not really about some single woman who has made a career and comes at 45 years of age and suddenly comes to mind that she wants a child. Actually, it's about couples in the final thieves and starters who come by the Rigshospitalet. I think that when Søren Ziebe yells at the guard in the rifle, we also have a responsibility from in here to do something.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603131001	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603131004	I'm glad one of our leading experts, sir. Ziebe was mentioned. And I think that if you listen to him and we have had several meetings, and I also think I have had meetings with the rapporteur, and I myself have had meetings with him, then his recommendation is not exactly the same as that contained in this proposal. You have to be honest with me. His recommendations are much more structural, as I also tried to do, namely, how we can prevent how we can prevent so many people from needing this help.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603131033	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then we start the round of rapporteurs, and first it is Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603131051	Thank you for the floor, President. For many people, having children is one of life's great gifts. Unfortunately, it is not easy for everyone, because while some couples get pregnant easily, other couples need help. And today it is sad enough between one in four and one in six Danes who find it difficult to have children, and that is far too many. The decline in fertility in Denmark has consequences for a great many people who are in the unhappy situation that they cannot have children. But it is also unhappy for our society. That is why I also welcome the basic idea behind the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen and the Left, namely that we should all focus on family policy and on better opportunities to have children. However, when we talk about involuntary infertility, we should remember that it is not just about bringing together an egg and a sperm, but that there are a large number of structural challenges that have implications for fertility, and it is crucial that we learn more about it. Following on from this, I also believe that the resolution has a wide range of challenges and shortcomings. Firstly, the introduction of an investigation and treatment guarantee, as the Minister has also said, will result in increased involvement of, for example, private maternity clinics and fertility clinics, and this is problematic in relation to the already very limited staff resources we have. We are simply lacking hands, and that is why the motion for a resolution will simply shift the capacity from the Community health system to other places. In this way, therefore, capacity will not be increased, which is why we will not receive any more treatments. Secondly, I am also of the clear conviction that, in order to help more people to become parents, we also need to start focusing on preventive measures and on knowledge of why more and more people are having difficulty having children. One reason we already know is that fertility is affected by age... that both women's eggs and men's sperm cells are affected by ageing. Therefore, it is also a great challenge that we generally become significantly older before we start to consider having children and that it can now be seen that the average age compared to the first child has moved by 6 years. So 30 years ago, you were 24 years old, and now you're almost 30 years old. It is therefore essential to spread the debate so that we begin to talk about what the barriers are for young families, so that they start having children earlier. It is also essential that we look at what are some diseases that otherwise have consequences in relation to having children. There is a woman's disease, for example. endomitriosis, which thousands of Danes suffer from, and Danish figures show that up to 40%. patients with endometriosis have problems becoming pregnant. Therefore, it is also relevant in this context that the debate on involuntary infertility also talks about the consequences it has when women and men have diseases that affect fertility. This is important for those who are trying to have children, and it is also important for our society. It is therefore essential that we learn more about how, overall, we can increase fertility in Denmark • that we have discussed and discussed family policy; that we look at whether there are the things present that make us supported, that one gets the desire, opportunity and can have children. Therefore, I also very much agree with the Minister that it requires far greater and broader action • that we get up into the helicopter perspective and that we get a look at the different parts of having children. And that is why we cannot support the resolution in the Social Democratic Party either, but we thank you for the opportunity to discuss both fertility but also general family policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603131520	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603131522	Thank you, and thank you, to the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. I know that the rapporteur feels the same way as I do in this area. I would like to say one thing first in relation to the private and public clinics. In other words, because the Left is not for or against this, because the Left wants to strengthen the whole area, and if we want to make a treatment and investigation guarantee, it is because we want to ensure that where capacity is not in the public sector, because there is a great difference between region and region in the length of waiting times for this to happen, there is an opportunity to move over to the private sector. Because today's problem is that you have the opportunity to go to the private sector, but you just have to be ready to put $50,000 to $80,000, and that is hardly a good thing to be able to do. And I would just like to ask the rapporteur something to which the Minister was not given the answer. But the Left has given 125 million priority. kr. on our law of finance for fertility treatment. Is that something the government could expect, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603131610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603131613	I appreciate the fact that the questioner is confident that I can respond on behalf of the Minister in relation to financial proposals in the field of health. There should of course be no doubt about what I think about the area of fertility and, in general, our efforts in relation to the possibilities of having children, because it is also about what kind of Denmark we need to have forward-looking. Well, it's about the possibility that you can have your dream of having the family you want, whatever it is for a family you want. But the details of the Finance Act I will allow the Minister to go into, and I will not use any more words on that here. I just want to say that I simply do not agree with the questioner that it is possible to make the distinction of saying that by moving to the private sector, there are suddenly more hands dumping down. I do not think you can see it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603131711	Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603131714	Well, there is free capacity, because if you have a long wait in a public clinic and you then see couples for that reason go to a private and get a quick help, it gives a bit of itself that there is the available capacity. I would also like to say that it may be that it was the rapporteur and I who were to sit and negotiate fertility on behalf of the Minister. Then maybe we could go a little further. Furthermore, I also agree with both the Minister and the rapporteur on prevention, and the reason why I actually pulled out the paper on the question I put to the Minister last April and in which I have just received nothing more than the same answer that I have received today is that I find it really a pity that nothing is happening in the field of prevention, since that is what is being spoken again today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603131749	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603131753	I hear the questioner is frustrated. I think that the Minister was sharp and precise and that government policy is essential in the family field: that we want to see change, but that we also have to raise ourselves in a helicopter perspective. So I simply do not agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603131809	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. This means that we move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603131818	Thank you. There is really nothing bigger than having a long-awaited and much desired child. Unfortunately, for many different reasons, too many young people have to face up to the fact that that happiness does not come naturally. That is worrying, and it must be given our full attention. This motion for a resolution suggests how we can medically stem the problem and we must be able to remedy unwanted infertility. However, this requires both skills and staff enough. Both are in short supply. Until we either have enough staff, or until we can hopefully succeed in effectively preventing unwanted infertility, we must therefore use resources wisely for the benefit of those who have the greatest need, that is, the resources we have. I hope that the Commission that we set up when we recently reached an agreement on health reform can help to stem the challenges of recruitment and retention in the health sector, both by means of more interdisciplinary and by means of wise priorities. The wise priority is therefore no longer privatisation. It does not create any more resources and, unfortunately, it simply shifts more and more resources from the acute areas to other areas. It is wrong, and it increases the pressure on the already busy workers in the emergency areas. On the other hand, I also believe that we should have a plan that removes the structural barriers to young people having children while they are young and while fertility is greatest. This applies to both women and men. The labour market can and must also contribute here. I know from experience that it is difficult for young people, especially women, to get jobs if they wish to have a family. I believe that we will be able to stem the inequality between men and women when men in the future also have to take on their share of the bulwark. But there remains the challenge of young people being chosen from because they give priority to starting a family. This is a contributing reason why more young people wait far too long to start a family. Moreover, I think that we can make it easier for young students to have a family while they are studying. Unfortunately, we know that fertility is falling with age, and we can hardly change that. Finally, however, we must also put turbo on research that can reveal endocrine disruptors and stress, or whatever on earth it may be that adversely affects young people's fertility. We cannot and must not just stand by. Childlessness is a problem that we must take seriously. There are just no easy solutions, and this resolution does not solve the problem either. Moving resources simply creates new problems, and therefore the SF does not vote in favour of the proposal either. However, we are prepared for sustainable solutions to be found for the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132124	There is a brief comment. Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132127	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the rapporteur from the SF for the speech. There were many good elements in it. In relation to the structural barriers, I agree with the rapporteur that we should have looked at this too; the rapporteur and the undersigned have actually discussed this earlier. I also agree with the rapporteur on the prevention aspect, but then we must damn well have pushed the government, because I think we have been talking about this area for a very long time without moving forward. And again: that is why I refer to the reply of April last year when gold and green forests were promised by the Minister. I think it is a great pity that we are here the following year. I have a motion for a resolution in the House which can at least move into some degree of serious concern about this area of involuntary infertility. But there is no point in us continuing to talk about the prevention part unless we do something about it. That's why I'm just gonna ask you a quick question. I think it is a pity that the fear of privatisation must stand in the way, because it is precisely one of the places where we can pass on our involuntarily childless quickly in the process, but leave it at that. A very quick question: if we go from three to six treatments, the rate of success increases significantly. I think the chance to have a baby is 20%. higher. Will the SF at least look into that solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132234	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132237	I'm not afraid of privatisation. I believe that privatisation will shift resources from an emergency area to an electrified area, in other words an area where treatment is planned. Then we'll just have a problem somewhere else. We need to consider how we can use resources wisely in the future if it is the case that we have to get as much money as possible so that we can help as many patients as possible who need treatment. That is why it is also difficult to just stand here and promise more treatments, because although I share the wish that we can help childless people, because I think this is a really important area of action, I am still worried about whether we have the resources to do so, because it requires competences and it requires resources. That is why we must also use the resources as wisely as possible, and I think we can sit down and look at that, but perhaps we should all be together in getting some sacred cows slaughtered in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132337	Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132340	In relation to privatisation, it sounds a bit like the old speech that was made in connection with this whole private hospital discussion, and it has been shown that that fear was fortunately unfounded, but the Left listened to it a lot at the time. Well, we leave it behind, and then I just ask again: do I hear the rapporteur saying that going from three to six treatments is something you are willing to look at? Because that is one of the places where we can push up the success rate significantly. I think it's from 64 percent. To 83 per cent that the chance of having the child dreamed of in the world is increasing, and I still think that is a very, very big factor, which should be crucial to the SF in this respect too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132415	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132418	The rapporteur heard me say that we are prepared to try to find solutions to a real problem, but it is of no use that I stand here on the platform and say that, if that is how we cannot, then I just do not think it will help that we say that we are just privatising something more, because we are not getting any more resources from that. There you just move some resources from the emergency area, which is also crowded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132448	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132505	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Left for raising the motion for a resolution again. It is quite true that we share the impatience of the Left in terms of our response to this issue. I also very much agree with the comments made by Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen that we need to look at this in a broad way, including in relation to prevention, but there is no doubt that the points raised by the Left in this motion for a resolution are quite legitimate and absolutely correct, that is to say, the possibility of having six test tube treatments publicly funded and access to paid treatment, also at child number 2. I think that these are perfectly reasonable demands. But there are some concerns about this proposal and that is why we are not going to support it in Enhedslisten and it is acting among other things. on the financing. In other words, it is very good that the Left is pointing to funding from its own draft budget, but that does not change the fact that the money has to be found now and here. In fact, I am also in doubt about the 125 million. kr., which the Left allocates, will really be enough to solve this problem. The second reason for concern, which Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen also mentioned, is that this is also a question of how to secure resources. It is not enough simply to provide funds, and it is certainly not enough to say that we will then be providing a treatment and investigation guarantee, if only as a consequence we will move resources from other areas in an already starved health service. Therefore, if we are going to have some land on the ground, we need to ensure that we get sufficient resources into the area, and thus also ensure that this does not mean that tasks are simply moved from elsewhere. Then I also think that it is as if the Left has had such an idea that if only we introduce an investigation and treatment guarantee, then the problems will solve themselves. I mean, people don't get treated because they get a guarantee. People are being treated by the fact that there are specific health professionals who can solve the tasks. That is the great challenge now and here. So if we give a guarantee and that means simply that resources can be moved from a public health service that is already suffering to private solutions, then it will not solve anything. In any case, it only solves something when we move tasks and we move tasks from some of what may be more complicated to some of what is less complicated. We in the Enhedslist will not support that. So we fully support the issues outlined and, as such, the solutions that are on them, but because of the funding and the model outlined, the Enhedslist will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132758	There is a brief comment from Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132801	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur for the speech. Now something has been said about the proposal being tabled again, and I do not know whether it was a miswording, but this is now the first time we have tabled this resolution. I have great respect for the fact that the same proposals are not being retabled, so I would just like to make that point. As far as funding is concerned, I think that is a slightly sought apology. I hear the rapporteur say that we are actually afraid that these 125 million. kr. It is not enough, but should I understand the rapporteur in such a way that it is better to just set aside 0?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132833	No, the criticism I have about funding is that I am concerned about whether this is sufficient, and that is because the Left does not indicate where the money is to come from. The Left simply writes that they come from the Left's own draft Finance Bill, but if we are going to do this, and if we adopt it, the money should be found and if it is not indicated where the 125 million. kr. They come from the health service's own budget, which means that there are other tasks which will then not be solved in an already pressured health service.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132858	Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132901	I should now like to comment on what the rapporteur did not reply to in the first place and which I have written down here. The rapporteur says it does not solve anything. Yes, it does, because it gives several couples the opportunity to have children • couples who otherwise would never have had children. So that is simply not true. In relation to what the rapporteur is now saying with regard to funding, I would like to say that we had prioritised it in our Finance Act last year, and the government did not have it, and now I am asking today: do you want from the support parties, from the government, to give priority to this area in the forthcoming Finance Act? There is every possibility of prioritising that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132938	Thank you. Then we will have the rapporteur answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603132942	It is, of course, sympathetic that the rapporteur wants to move the budget negotiations into this Chamber, but that is not the way things are going to happen. I can say this is an area we're focused on. I therefore agree with the proposal outlined here, i.e. the possibility of having up to six test tube treatments and also the possibility of paid treatment for the second child. I fully agree with that, and I think that this should also be a priority, but it is clear that it will be included in the overall assessment in the context of a financial law debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133008	I can't quite figure out if Mr. Knox... Lars Boje Mathiesen wishes to speak or to speak on the phone. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133028	You bet I do. That is because I can now hear both SF's rapporteur and also Enhedslisten's rapporteur saying here that it is good that we are making demands in here from the Folketing, but that there must also be people to be able to solve the tasks. I think that is actually a fair argument. But would it not also be fair for that argument to apply when, for example, it applies? Are we talking about minimum standards in the area of day-to-day provision, or about minimum requirements for care for the elderly, so that we cannot impose these requirements until we have ensured that there are staff to lift it and that it must come in that order?
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133108	It is absolutely true that we are facing a huge challenge throughout our welfare societies in ensuring that there are sufficient welfare professionals to carry out the tasks that exist today, but also those that are in the future. And that's one of them. That is why we have called for 5 billion to be set aside already. kr. to a low and equal wage increase which can be distributed in the forthcoming collective bargaining, so that we can ensure that we can both recruit and retain the staff needed, both now and in the future. It can be said that, in relation to the specific proposal here, it is clear that there is the challenge, of course, that if we introduce a new guarantee that needs to be met, it means that we will simply move resources. Here we go. Lars Boje Mathiesen and I are giving priority to health care resources rather than ensuring that this is done on the basis of health-care criteria, and it is clear that we also have a desire to lift the bar. However, in order to give priority to health care, it is essential that it takes place on the basis of health professional criteria and not on the basis of where private hospitals can earn their most money.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133208	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133211	No, but the argument for not voting in favour was that we cannot make new demands and we cannot make such a guarantee if we have not ensured that there are staff to do the job. Among other things, it has. I would just like to say that this must be the principle that we are also running forward when we come up with other welfare measures. And then I understand that Enhedslisten has a wish that more money should accompany it and that there should be more public employees. However, until that happens, new proposals should not be made unless they are financed, both with crowns and ears, but also with regard to staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133249	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133252	Now that's a pretty interesting interpretation, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen is doing for my reasons why we do not support this proposal. But let us now buy the premise and then say that, of course, we must find the resources for it. And that's exactly what we've been doing. In the Enhedslisten, it has actually succeeded in pushing the government to say now that we must follow the demographics. In other words, as more elderly people arrive and more children and young people arrive, funds must be taken out to the municipalities, and the fact that funds are being used is also important for what kind of work we are creating. Can we then continue to recruit and maintain the staff that we so desperately need? So there is, of course, coherence, but we need to ensure that the funding is there to ensure that there are fair working conditions so that we can attract and maintain staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133331	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that means that we will move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133342	Thank you, President, and thank you to the Left rapporteur for putting forward this proposal, which is a very sympathetic proposal in many ways. After all, we have a huge challenge in the fact that fertility actually continues to dwindle, and we must of course take this very seriously, and I also think that we need to find a way to stop negative developments, because that is quite regrettable. We ourselves, in our draft budget, have prioritised the means to move from the third reading up to six readings and set, I think, it is 33 million. kr. That is what we think would be appropriate. Because once you have started a course of fertility, it is also essential that you succeed, and there is therefore a higher rate, if you get the fourth, fifth and sixth time, for it to succeed. So we have a great deal of sympathy for that, and we have our own intentions to do so if that is the case. But the other part in relation to child no. 2 we haven't funded, and that's what's going to be the reason why we can't support this proposal. Because then our equation doesn't go up. Otherwise we will be positive, but the money will have to be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133511	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133528	Thank you, and thank you to the Left for bringing this theme to debate. I understand the desire of the many involuntarily childless to have a child, also to have a child no. 2 and we also have a social interest in the birth of more children. There are three themes in the Left's proposal. The first is that treatment for infertility is covered by the investigation and treatment guarantee. It is obvious that time is a factor in having children, and therefore of course it makes good sense to talk about how long waiting times there can be and there should be. At the same time, we are currently in a situation where the regions generally find it very difficult to meet their treatment guarantees in the areas already covered. I know of events in both the Region of South Jutland and the Region of Midtjylland, where the answer, in order to activate the treatment guarantee, was that the visitation to help you find an investigation/treatment site within 30 days, even has a waiting period of 3-4 weeks, most recently the story of a girl in the Region of Central Jutland who had to be treated for sclerosis. She could have a time in the public sector for a treatment in the spring of 2024, and when she wanted to activate the investigation guarantee, the patient office had a waiting period of 3-4 weeks, and that is, of course, an indication that we have an extremely pressured system already now, and that is why I can of course be concerned whether, if we put in a new treatment guarantee, we can live up to it. And that also means that we in the Danish People's Party think we should get to grips with how we live up to the guarantees we provide before we create more guarantees. We are also in a situation where we look into a shortage of human resources in all areas, and it is no use putting the public in a messy position that the health services cannot then deliver. So the crucial thing for us in the Danish People's Party is to provide guarantees that you can actually deliver on. And so perhaps in this context we could discuss a report that could address the problem and the challenges. The next theme of the proposal is the possibility of up to six treatments from now to three which, according to the proposal, increase the chance of success with fertility treatment from 64 to 83 per cent. It makes really good sense to me. It is extremely hard for the families who go through the treatments, and if we can significantly increase the chance of success in this way, we should do so. The last proposal is to give a right to fertility treatment to child no. 2 and in relation to the increasing number of involuntarily childless people, it also makes sense for the Danish People's Party that we give the possibility of treatment to child no. 2. In social terms, it also makes sense to support the birth of more children, and if it is not to be dependent on the individual family's financial performance, and we do not really think so, then we can also support the fact that it will be possible to pay for fertility treatment for child no. 2. So, overall, we are positive about the proposal and we are looking forward to the discussions in committee on how best to ensure the future in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133826	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and we move on to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133836	Thank you. Some of the elements here are, after all, very positive about. We have the basic policy that the money should follow the citizen, so it should be up to the citizen whether to choose a public or a private offer. So we have no problem with proposing that an easier choice has been made about it. I also agree that we need to look at resources. There has been a question mark over how resources are being moved here. Could it be absorbed in private? Perhaps you can believe that, and at least we should have checked whether it can, and then it will be very, very fine. About this, you go from three to six, there may also be a lot of reasoning in it. I'm gonna set it up, if you're gonna have to have two attempts, a little bit up with what that means for the waiting time of those who want the first try. Because it is clear that you have to go with it if, when you give a privilege to someone to get the second try, it means that those who want the first try are pushed further backwards in the waiting time. I am not quite sure whether I understand the Left's proposal correctly and whether the economy has also been allocated to that part, or only to that part, of going from three to six, and that the second attempt will also be made. But that could mean something to the waiting list, first of all. So these are the things we would like to have examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603133951	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603134001	Thank you. I am sorry that I was not in the Chamber when it was actually my turn. Thank you to the Left for raising an important issue. Those of us who are fortunate enough to have children know how much that means in our lives, and that is why I also have the greatest sympathy with the families who need help to have the children they earnestly want. In this proposal, the Left points to a number of challenges in this area and proposes possible solutions to help families who need medical assistance to have children. There are also rapporteurs and the Minister also mentioned the point that there may be other problems that challenge fertility in society. Has it simply become too difficult to have children if you are young because of the way our society is screwed up? Both, both the medical and the social grounds, can easily be right at the same time and point to different challenges that can sometimes reinforce each other. It is not just a problem that needs to be resolved in the health sector, because it is a complex area and I fully share the concerns of the Left. Whether the Left's proposed grip is quite right, I am not quite sure. I would like to see more clarification of the area: what are the challenges? Are several free test tube tests the optimal use of our resources? What are the total costs, both financially and in terms of staff? In addition, I also agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Peder Hvelplund, pointing out that the new treatment guarantee will not solve the problem in itself unless there are the necessary resources, both financially and staffly, to carry out the task. However, in the Radical Left, as the Left does, we give priority to the area here, even when we are about to present our own draft budget after the summer. We cannot therefore vote in favour of the proposal as it stands here, but that is something that we are working on, and I hope that we can gather more parties broadly to find a solution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603134147	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Marlene Ambo-Rasmussen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603134208	Thank you for the floor, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs and the Minister, who have appeared in this Chamber today to discuss this. It has been some exciting answers that have been coming. There's gonna be something for me to pick up on afterwards. I would just like to say, with regard to the comment specifically about the private and public clinics, that I think it is a little too bad that it ends up in a discussion about being for or against it. Because in the end, the involuntarily childless will suffer. When we see that it is the case today that those who have the purse in order, those who can afford it, end up skipping the long wait and getting out and getting faster treatment, and when we can just see that the waiting time can be long and, secondly, can have such great and crucial importance, it is all the more important that we take it very, very seriously. Then I would also like to say in relation to the debate here today that I think that, in particular and specifically the government and the minister, we owe it to us to get out of the pits in this area. We have been discussing this for a very long time, and the speech made by the Minister today reflected the question I asked last April. And then we haven't made it any further. I think that's a real shame. Too many Danes today experience involuntary infertility. In fact, it is so serious that up to a quarter of those who want to have children today are experiencing biological challenges of becoming parents. Several studies confirm the trend that reduced fertility is one of the most common chronic diseases among 20-25-year-olds in the Nordic countries. The truth is that reduced fertility is a chronic disease recognised by the World Health Organisation, WHO, on the same footing as other chronic diseases. That is why we in the Left cannot help wondering why involuntary infertility is not treated in the same way as other chronic diseases here in Denmark. As far as health is concerned, we know the assessment and treatment guarantee, which ensures that patients receive the right treatment quickly. Unfortunately, that right does not apply to fertility. We in the Left do not think that is right. Another challenge in this area is that too many people experience the long wait. Current waiting times today vary from region to region and range from 10 to 52 weeks. And when we know that time is an important factor and we know that waiting times are too long in several places in the country, some of the involuntarily childless people who go through fertility treatment will not be covered by the treatment guarantee as it stands right now. At the same time, involuntarily childless people cannot opt for private alternatives if the waiting time in the public fertility clinic is too long. In practice, as I have said many times today, this means that we can wait for an infinite amount of time to treat a disease which requires treatment right now. Long waiting times not only go beyond the likelihood that the treatment is successful, also for the vast majority of couples in fertility treatment, there has been a long process before, which has drawn large emotional bills on those involved. These are stressful emotions that affect not only the couple or the single one, but also the association of family and friends. For young women who cannot become pregnant in particular, it can have major consequences to be surrounded by family and friends who are in happy circumstances. That is why there are so many good reasons why we need to take this very seriously. That is also why we in the Left have tabled this motion for a resolution precisely with three proposals designed to ensure a helping hand for the Danes who, unfortunately, are the leader of involuntary infertility. Firstly, we propose the introduction of an assessment and treatment guarantee for people undergoing fertility treatment. We know that time is an important factor when we talk about fertility treatment and involuntary infertility. Over the past decade, we have seen birth rates falling in Denmark, while the average age of first-time feeding is steadily increasing. Both are a dangerous cocktail when we talk fertility. We know that the chance to get pregnant peaks when the women are in their early twenties and then declines. These are biological processes, neither politicians, nor health care nor researchers, and can change them. But we can still help the involuntary childless. We can help them along the way so that time and age will not be a greater challenge than is necessary. We can do this both with prevention and with this proposal we are discussing today. That is why we in the Left want to give the involuntarily childless access to faster treatment, just as it should also apply in many other areas of the Danish health service. That was one thing. The second point is that we propose that more tests on fertility treatment should be offered. People are biologically different, and where some are successful in the first attempt, both in a natural first attempt and in a first test tube study, others may need more than three to achieve success. Unfortunately, after the third attempt, many give up because of a lack of economy. That's if it costs 50,000 to 80,000 kroner. To go to a treatment in a private clinic, there are many that are not possible. The limit of the three experiments therefore creates enormous pressure on the people who are being treated, because the concern about failure is growing increasingly with each experiment. By increasing the number of treatments from three to six, the chances of success are also increased from 64 per cent. 83 per cent. So this is an increase of just under 20%. In this way, we can give the families calm and security about the treatment, while at the same time increasing the success rate. Finally, we propose that paid fertility treatment should be available for child number two, and we do so because the Danes today are giving birth to fewer and fewer children. In 1960 there was an average of 21⁄2 children per year. woman who was led in Denmark. Here, 60 years later, the figure is about one and a half children born per child. woman. If the trend continues, the Danish population will shrink in the long term, and this will have serious consequences for the welfare society of all of us, and not least for culture. Today, however, it is only possible to get help for the first child through the publicly funded health care system, but both the individual family and Denmark as a society naturally have a great interest in more children being born and more children having siblings. That is why we in the Left would like to introduce publicly paid fertility treatment for child no. 2. Involuntary infertility is a chronic and deeply unhappy situation for the parties involved, and it is therefore a situation that more and more people face each year. Too many experience challenges of starting or expanding the family, and it can draw emotionally great traces in the individual's life. We must help those who want to have children. We must create a safe and sound framework for those who want fertility treatment. That is why I hope that the majority of Parliament's parties will be able to support it. At any rate, I have heard a number of people say today that some of the points might be interested, and I would really just like to say thank you to all the parties for spending the afternoon with me in this Chamber. This is welcome, and it is an important, important subject to discuss. And, of course, I would like to say a special word of thanks to DF and Conservative and New Citizens, who made particularly positive statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603134950	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Public Health and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220603135000	There is no more to be done in this sitting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 7 June 2022 at 6 pm. 13.00. I shall refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
