ParlaMint-DK_20220419130001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill no. L 166 (Proposal for a law supplementing the regulation on dealing with the spread of terrorist related content online (TCO Act)). Kasper Roug (S), Bertel Haarder (V), Karsten Hønge (SF), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Christian Juhl (EL), Rasmus Jarlov (KF), Søren Espersen (DF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam (SIU), Edmund Joensen (SP) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF) and others.: Question No. F 53 (What can the Prime Minister say about the opportunities and challenges of the Kingdom Community?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Finance (Nicolai Wammen) has informed me that he wishes to withdraw the following bill: Proposal for a law on welfare. L 57). Does anyone wish to record this bill? As this is not the case, the draft law has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130102	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 66 by Jens Joel (S), Christoffer Aagaard Melson (V), Anne Valentina Berthelsen (SF), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF), Ole Birk Olesen (LA) and Jens Rohde (KD), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 80 votes (S, V, SF, RV, KF and LA), against 19 abstentions (EL, DF, NB, Lise Bech (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG), abstentions 2 abstentions (FG). Proposal for adoption No V 66 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 65 of Morten Messerschmidt (DF) lapsed and the request has been closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130159	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130216	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 56 (S, SF, RV, EL and FG), against 45 (V, KF, DF, NB, LA, Lise Bech (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130241	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130300	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour, 101 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, Lise Bech (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130319	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130337	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 97 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, FG, Lise Bech (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against 2 (NB), abstained 2 (LA). The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister. There are no more votes, so those who want to leave the Chamber can do so now. Then I think there has been time to leave the Chamber, and I therefore expect that we will now be able to continue the proceedings. I expect there to be quiet in the Chamber now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130506	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Christian Juhl that is so from up here, I suppose, since there is no one to ask questions about. Sir. Christian Juhl It is a point of order which I would like to make immediately, but not of a particular nature). The speaker's chair is sir. Christian Juhls. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130606	On several occasions, when we go to the second reading of the proposals, various Presidents have asked for people to leave if they do not want to be present because there seem to be no votes. But every time there have been points where the President asks: is there a vote? If you have to put a question to the Folketing about whether a vote is to be taken, then people must also be present because, for good reasons, the President cannot know whether a vote is to be taken. So either you do not have the procedure of asking people, and then the President simply decides that it is, or you have to wait to call off the possibility of voting until we have finished the second readings of the proposals where you ask whether you want a vote. It is a procedure which has been introduced after New Year, apparently quite invisible, and I would ask the President, possibly the Bureau, to discuss whether this is not a wrong way of interpreting the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, the question is superfluous. Because if I and I do that next time I say yes, I want a vote, what would the President do? Yes, the President would look into the Chamber and say: we cannot do that with the few people sitting here. Let us say that I had mobilised 13 Enhedslisteners who had then voted for or against some proposal, and everyone else did not have a chance when the President had called off the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130734	Of course, I will take that into account, but I just want to say to Mr. Christian Juhl, that you can always call for a vote in the Chamber. So that's where you'd be able to do it. But those comments, sir. Christian Juhl has been noted. And once I have done so, it is because there is a large majority in the committee behind it. Sir. Christian Juhl I have a committee meeting). Yes, but, sir. Christian Juhl, I have just indicated that I take this comment to heart, but I would also like to explain two things. Paragraph 1: When I do so, it is because it says in the papers that it is a unanimous committee, most often, that agrees with it. Paragraph 2: I can always say it is true that there will then be a 7-minute waste of time I admit it. But otherwise I will always be able to do so, so there is nothing wrong with the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament. Thank you. Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130839	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of new citizens)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130851	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130909	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-7, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of new citizens)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130924	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419130945	The debate is open. First, it's the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419131004	Thank you for that, President. With the motion for a resolution here, the proposers want to oblige the government to put forward a legislative proposal by the end of this year at the latest, which implements a nationwide transport scheme for leisure activities for citizens with dementia. The reason for the motion for a resolution is the pilot scheme for the transport of people with a dementia diagnosis, which was allocated funds with the Rate Pool Agreement for 2018-2021. The pilot scheme was implemented as an application pool, where a total of ten municipalities were given the means to offer transport of people with dementia diagnosis. However, to a certain extent, the local authorities have been able to decide on the arrangements, that is to say how they should be organised, and the municipalities have also organised the transport services differently and with different levels of service. Last year the trial scheme was evaluated and I am pleased that both relatives and citizens have generally been satisfied with the trial scheme. According to the evaluation, the pilot scheme has helped citizens with dementia to have a more active leisure and social life. I have been able to read that the citizens of the European Union, who have been spoken to in the course of the evaluation, see that the transport system allows them to participate more fully in the leisure activities they want, as well as to visit friends and family as much as they want. That's really nice. That is why I also have fundamental sympathy for the idea of ensuring that people living at home with dementia throughout the country can receive help for the transport of leisure activities. However, the motion for a resolution we are debating today lacks funding. The distribution of a nationwide transport scheme to resident people with dementia in all municipalities in the country will be met with a demand from the municipalities to be DUT-compensated. Apart from the fact that the proposal has not been financed, the cost of extending the transport regulation to the whole country is likely to be significantly higher than the estimated cost of the evaluation. Here it appears that the spread of the scheme will cost approximately 2.3 to 8.2 million. kr. annual. It is an estimate based on 7% respectively. 12 per cent and 12 per cent. the target group will take advantage of the scheme, but as the proposers also refer to in the proposal, the estimated costs associated with the spread of the transport system may be too low, because the application of the experimental scheme, like so much else in our country, has been influenced by the covid-19, which has, after all, significantly reduced the opportunities for participation in leisure and social activities. Therefore, it must also be assumed that more citizens in the target group would have used the scheme and would have made more frequent use of it if leisure and social activities were more accessible during the period of the experimental scheme. My ministry therefore estimates that the cost of spreading the system of considerable uncertainty will cost approx. 14-20 million kr. annual if 20-30 per cent; the target group makes use of the scheme and it is expected to be a more realistic estimate of the degree of application. If 50%, i.e. every second in the target group, makes use of the scheme, the cost of distribution is estimated to cost up to 34 million. kr. annual. It will therefore be much more expensive to spread the scheme than what is referred to in the proposal. Having said that, there are now several different arrangements and provisions for helping transport to people who are unable to cope with a given transport needs themselves. The rules on this are among other things. laid down in the Service Act. Pursuant to Article 117 of the Services Act, the municipal council may grant grants to persons who, due to a permanent loss of physical or mental capacity, require transport by individual means of transport. Today, therefore, local authorities are able to offer assistance to people with permanent physical or mental impairments, including, among other things, their needs, on the basis of a concrete assessment of needs. people with dementia. It is therefore important to make it clear that there is no obstacle on the part of the State today to the provision of help by municipalities for the transport of resident people with dementia for leisure activities. As I have said, we have quite basic sympathy for the proposal to ensure that people living at home with dementia can receive assistance in transport for leisure activities, as both these citizens and relatives, as we can see in the evaluation, have been satisfied with the experimental scheme. On the part of the government, we also agree that it is important to ensure that people with dementia can, as far as possible, hold onto their social life, in their leisure life, as increased quality of life can help delay the development of the disease. However, the proposal is not financed and will probably be significantly more expensive than the estimated cost of the evaluation. That is why we cannot support the proposal as it stands either, but we in the government are committed to working to ensure that people with dementia generally receive good support, care and treatment, as it provides the best conditions for increasing the quality of life and delaying the progress of the disease. That is why I am very much looking forward to the committee reading of the proposal and the discussions with you, or rather my good colleagues from the parties of the Danish Parliament, as I do not think you should be told.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419131512	It's okay. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419131517	Thank you. I also think it is a great idea, also because it is formulated by citizens with dementia who themselves say that it is a challenge when you are isolated in your own home because of this serious illness. I really wonder about the Minister's new calculations. There is a consultant report which says that it is estimated that it will cost between 2.3 million. kr. 8,2 million and 8,2 million respectively. kr. In addition, 40 million were set aside to extend it to the whole country. kr. for the project in the morning of time and, in addition, 1.5 million. kr. to a consultant report or an evaluation report. If we completely ignore the fact that consultants estimate that this estimate will cost between 2.3 and 8.2 million. kr., and subsequently claims that it will be more like 34 million. kr.? And then I note that the evaluation report also says that there has been corona. But would that not have been a good reason to have postponed the evaluation instead of extending the period of the experiment?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419131624	Thank you! The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419131627	Thank you. I tried here in my opening speech to explain why the estimates for the economy are as they are. And I think it is difficult to put it further from here on the floor, but let us at last clarify it in the committee's proceedings. It is about the degree of application, i.e. both the number of citizens who use it, but also, of course, how much they use it. After all, we all remember how much lay still during the periods of the coronapandemic, and how much the country was shut down, and, of course, that the vulnerable citizens were very, very good at looking after themselves and their relatives. That is why this target group will also be one of the target groups which both had an offer of activity, which was largely closed to restricting the spread of infection, and which may also be regulated by itself and was less active than otherwise. But let's finally get a better light on these financial estimates. So we can always be hindsight and say: could we have done something in the contract circle and extended or postponed the trial system? At any rate, it has now been completed and an evaluation has been carried out by a consultancy agency. We are not going to have that discussion about extending what has been completed and evaluated, but what else we can do and tackle together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419131734	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419131735	Thank you. After all, 40 million were set aside in the morning of time. kr., and it hasn't cost anything like that. It is just before that the evaluation report is more expensive than what the project has cost to implement in itself. So I would just like to ask the Minister whether it does not make sense at least to continue the project until there is a basis for further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419131758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419131759	One might say that it might well make sense to ask: what is this going to look like in a reality where there is no pandemic that restricts social activity and puts some specific restrictions on the particularly vulnerable citizens? Nevertheless, we would have to provide funding because the funds allocated for the years that have gone by are not in this way waiting for us. So we'd have to find funding for it. But that is the kind of thing that it would be interesting to discuss further together, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419131827	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419131830	Thank you. In fact, I can only agree with the questions put by Mrs Kirsten Andersen, and I am just wondering a little. We should, of course, do more in this area, and the Minister also says so, and what I would like to take up is that I see time and again that the government can agree and stand and apologize for pouring water out of its ears in connection with some proposals that the opposition is making and just will not accept them instead of saying: that is an idea that we can continue to work on; it is a resolution, it is not a full legislative proposal, but we are working on it. Then I just have to say that, regardless of whether this amount doesn't quite last, like Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, I would like to say that it doesn't matter that we're out in the petty section, and that's something that can mean so much joy to so many people. This is change compared to the large amounts that we otherwise operate with in here. Many times it is the little things that do it, and here I actually think it is a small thing that could bring great joy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419131929	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419131931	There is no doubt that the money we jointly, virtually all the parties of the Folketing, devoted to this trial scheme, has brought joy. The evaluation shows very clearly that they have, above all, the citizens who experience less isolated and less limited of their dementia, but also the relatives. After all, there is a reason why you also call the dementia disease the disease of the relatives, because it is hard in several ways to have a spouse or partner who is affected by dementia. Basically, it can be said that whether the amount is large or small, there must be funding in a resolution before we can support it by the government. I also believe that the author of the motion for a resolution heard me be very open to exactly what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is calling for, namely that we should be able to discuss this further, and I will look very much forward to the committee reading, and I think that it was some very relevant points that were raised in relation to what such an external consultant report costs and what the benefits of it are. This external consultancy expenditure is, after all, another discussion that we would also like to discuss in connection with our further discussions on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132035	Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132036	I still think it belongs to no matter what, that there is no real relationship between what such a report costs and what this really means. But I would just like to ask the Minister: what now? Because this proposal is being voted down, and what are we going to do? There I think that with the positive statements made by the Minister we always do that when it comes to the weak and the elderly; we can and must not demand to hear what the Minister has to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132109	Thank you. In the first place, there is the committee procedure, which includes, among other things, the committee procedure. I think that this is something that you will have to discuss in committee, and of course I would also be interested in following it, but of course I would also like to think about it myself. And it can be said that there must be funding through that or the other way. So you have to find out what form you think the content should take, but at the same time you also have to think about funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132144	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132149	Thank you so much. I would really like to reverse this whole problem a little, because the Minister himself says that it is already possible for the municipalities to offer it here today. Then why isn't it done? That's what I'm thinking. Because when you've made this pool into a pool, where you at least make it possible to do this as an experimental scheme, then I'm left thinking that why isn't this something that the municipalities are already offering to the citizens who have dementia in their own municipality? Is this another municipal austerity exercise, or what's going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132222	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132223	I am not aware of the time I have been Minister for the Elderly. Of course it is only a year and a few months that any studies have been carried out, that is, where you have called the municipalities and asked them whether they are applying the provision that is in the Service Act and why they are doing it or not doing it or the scope. I think something may have been done back in time. I have some doubts, but we can find that out further in committee. It can be said that what we did in the pool agreement, where, for good reasons, the party of the questioner was not included, both because it was back in time, and because the party of the questioner is also not in the new reserve, is to support it, we sometimes do that there are some places where there is no legislative obstacle to the local authority being able to do something specific, support a particular group, but where we want to develop and perhaps also promote the use of some opportunities and make, as we did here, an application pool, where ten municipalities have been in progress. I hope so very much. I mean, frankly, I don't know how many people read these consultant reports when they come, but it would be nice if there were local politicians and local politicians out there who took an interest in such a report and in such a project as we have done when you organise your local efforts towards people with dementia.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132331	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132332	Thank you so much. I would very much like answers to that, including in the committee procedure, that is to say to some of the points raised by the Minister. Because it has been seen before that the municipalities spend the money on all sorts of greed instead of the near core welfare. So it might be very interesting to get an answer as to whether this is the case here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132349	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132350	Well, let us at last do it in more detail during the committee procedure. And I would just like to say that I am certainly aware that there are a number of very good and fine activities for resident citizens with dementia in quite a number of municipalities. So it's not like nothing's going on. But let's finally see if we can get more. Now I also hear a little that it could be in relation to the number and spread of the possibility that exists in the Service Act today, in other words how it applies.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132414	Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132416	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. Now, of course, we have opened the preliminary negotiations on a new law on the elderly. We have been invited to an orientation meeting, where we were presented with the work that the government has set in motion in relation to these working groups, which first have to report on a very, very long period of time on the other side of the summer holiday. But I would really like to ask about the government's own ambition. I know these working groups have been set up, but they are not necessarily an expression of the government's ambition. What is the government's ambition for the demersal region? We have a dementia action plan that needs to be renewed. We need to look at what we can do to ensure that both demented and their relatives get a better life at all. What is it that the government brings to this blank piece of paper, which we have heard spoken many times? And I'm not asking about the work of the working groups, but I'm asking about the government's own.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132522	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132524	Thank you. I am perhaps talking a little bit about the motion for a resolution here, so just a brief answer to it so that we do not start discussing something for which we are not here right now. I believe that we should take it very, very seriously in relation to the new Older Law and the new regulations • the new centralised regulation, we have to make that it has been a problem for the elderly for many years that we have thought that we should run the solutions from in here, because it is not always from in here that the best ideas arise. Nor is it in here that we necessarily have the best knowledge of everyday life, that is, where the employees and the elderly meet. That is why it is not entirely by chance that we have reversed the process in relation to what previous governments have done, where such a consultative report has been presented, and on the basis of it should make action and debureaucratisation and improvement of the area of the elderly. We have turned it around, so there are actually now working groups with employees, with managers, with relatives, with citizens. Hopefully, this means that much better quality comes out of what we do, and indeed, I think, focus on, for example. Something like relatives in a way that wasn't before.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132626	Jane Heitmann, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132627	My question was not, in fact, about the Older People's Act, although I based it on it; nor was it about the work of the working groups. It was, in fact, about the government's own approach to the dementia area, where today we have a resolution that takes up a tiny corner, what to say, the big overall. So I'm just trying again: what's the government's ambition for the whole Dementia region? How do we ensure in the future that demented people can live the life they have chosen? How do we ensure that the hand is held under the next of kin so that they do not get tired and worn out?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132702	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132704	Again, it is a very, very big question to have to answer within 30 seconds during the examination of a very specific resolution. We have, of course, jointly extended the Dementia Trade Plan in the previous reserve agreement where we agreed on the need for it. That is why we have both already focused on this. And as a government, shortly before Christmas, we completed another 40 million. kr. together with the Finance Law Parties and thank you for doing so for the efforts of a more demens-friendly society. In this way, efforts and the fight against dementia are the fight for a dignified life for the people affected by dementia; and the group of people with dementia is wide and is concerned with quite a lot of things that I would very much like to discuss with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132743	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more brief comments. We are embarking on the rapporteur's round, and first of all it is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democrat Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419132758	Thank you. Thank you for the floor and, above all, a great deal of thanks to the SF for raising an important debate once again. Everyone has the right to an active life with the opportunity to participate in leisure activities and to meet with friends and family members regardless of age, whether one or more serious illnesses. Our social model is, of course, precisely about giving everyone the opportunity to be part of the community. This also applies, of course, to citizens with dementia. Overall, we know that more than 90,000 Danes suffer from a dementia disease, and we know that that number will also grow in the years to come when we are growing older. We also know that continuing your life with leisure activities and social relations has an impact on life with dementia for the citizen, but not least for the relatives. So why even doubt whether we should make the scheme today permanent in all municipalities right now? As I said before, we Danes live longer. That's nice. We also know that in the years to come we will be older. We all hope to grow older, and that is why it is also imperative that the money goes with it to all municipalities as the number of older people grows. If not, we will hollow out the welfare and have to lubricate the liver pie thinner on the bread. All of you in this room know that. The government and the support parties have raised the economy of the municipalities and regions by 8.6 billion in the first three financial laws. kr. and thus compensated for the increasing number of elderly. On top of that comes a large number of the actions that have taken place with, among other things. the financial laws, which have also benefited citizens with dementia. And on the SSA reserve, we have extended the Dementia Trade Plan by a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, which was due to expire at the end of 2019. It's all good, but it's absolutely crucial that we get a bottom under welfare and that we cover the demographics or everything else we do right now will be patching holes. We have the greatest sympathy for the concrete proposal for a transport scheme for leisure activities. Getting out, meeting familiar faces and having fun with others is extremely important when it comes to quality of life. Therefore, it is also obvious to see whether we can make it easier and simpler for people with dementia to get help in transporting themselves to leisure activities. If we then do not support the proposal now, it is because it is about funding and because we do not know the exact price. The proposal shows that the price will be 2-8 million. kr. There is a great deal of uncertainty about that figure, as the authors of the motion for a resolution have said so well, because it has just been calculated at a time of Corona, when there has of course been less activity. So we're gonna have to count on a bigger user drive. I have also noticed that I was one of those who then had to read the report or the evaluation that the figures cover quite large differences between municipalities on what has actually been of cost. In a municipality the price has been 115 DKK. per tur; in another municipality the price has been DKK 649. The municipalities have chosen different methods for ordering trips, payment of trips. The municipalities have different geography, and in some municipalities there are large distances compared to other municipalities. So if the criteria for the transport system are to be changed, for example. with increased participation by escorts, or if driving is to be granted for a leisure purpose, then the total cost to the municipalities will of course increase. And the same applies if we extend the target group to include citizens with dementia in a foster home. For this reason, if we are to continue driving for leisure activities, we must, of course, make sure that we get the sum of money that is needed, and we must ensure that we do not create too much bureaucracy in the municipalities that prevents help for citizens with dementia. So no matter how much we want to, we cannot be involved in printing a bill that we do not know the size of right now; but I would urge very strongly, on behalf of the Social Democrats, that we continue to work on a report text. Because it is a recognised problem, it is an important issue that the SF raises and thanks for that once again. We would very much like to see whether there is anything that requires new key solutions and, of course, we also need to look at the funding element in this regard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419133213	There is a brief comment on Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419133216	Thank you. By the time we agreed on this bet pool project, we had just made a big dementia action plan, and one of the objectives here was to 90 percent. of citizens with dementia should have a diagnosis. It's a goal that's been really, really hard to achieve, but we actually used that as a basis for this particular project too, because it could also help to say that there are actually some options, that there are actually some solutions. So having an active life can prove to be delaying the progression of this very serious disease. Does it not make sense to do everything we can to delay the progression of dementia when we know that, at the same time, we also find it incredibly difficult to recruit enough staff to take care of the most vulnerable in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419133309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419133311	Thank you. I couldn't agree more, and that's exactly why we did this experiment at the time. It is also unfortunate that we have not been able to get closer to it, so it can be said that no more citizens have been able to avail themselves of it. So I really hope that we can look at what we can do in the future, and I hope, as I said, that we can land a common text of the report that points into the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419133331	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419133333	However, one of the explanations may in fact be that there are so few citizens who are diagnosed in time and so early that they can actually influence their own lives themselves. After all, a total of 40 million was set aside. kr. the project, and it has not come close to costing at all, even though it was extended to 10 municipalities. It was originally only 5. Could it not make sense to continue the project at least in relation to the 10 municipalities until we have enough knowledge if that is the problem of getting it done permanently?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419133405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419133407	I am very willing to look at what we can do now and here. Now we have to deal with the committee, and I look forward to that, so let us have the debate there and see what is going on. However, it is also important that we have solutions that point into the future and that the municipalities can see themselves in. In fact, I believe that this debate is incredibly important also to help raise awareness in the municipalities that, as it is today, they can actually help citizens as it is in the Service Act at present.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419133432	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Jane Heitmann, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419133444	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the SF for making a sympathetic proposal for a nationwide system of transport for leisure activities for citizens with dementia. A transport system for our demented makes sense if you are on the team that believes that you should be able to live the life you have chosen for your own life, and it is extremely important that even if you are suffering from a serious diagnosis such as this one. Dementia, one should have the opportunity to hold onto the part of one's social life that one had before becoming ill. We know that demented citizens and their relatives are at risk of experiencing both isolation and loneliness, and we must not let that happen, not at all when we know that one in five dementia sufferers actually feel lonely. We all know them, the pronounced demographic challenges that we are facing, but fortunately more elderly people live good, healthy and active elderly lives. But there is also a large group that will live with one or more chronic diseases and in addition will experience loss of physical, mental and social skills. It is estimated that in Denmark we have approx. 89,000 people with dementia, and the figure will undoubtedly increase. This means that many will find it harder and harder to maintain the meaningful life they once had when you played backgammon with friends on Wednesdays, went to a museum on weekends and could go down to the local supermarket and shop yourself, completely free and without being dependent on anyone or anything. With a dementia diagnosis becoming much harder, and in this light it is essential to maintain an active life where you meet in strong, binding communities. The quality of life and stimulation associated with having an active life, cultivating one's relationships and participating in activities that require both one's mental and social abilities, can help to slow down the progress of the disease. I was genuinely happy when, in 2018, we landed a broad political agreement on investment pool funds in the area of the elderly for 2018-2021. In fact, we agreed to allocate 42.5 million. kr. to a pool for an experiment with a transport scheme for people with a dementia diagnosis who live in their own homes at the same time. With the scheme, dementia-stricken citizens were given the opportunity to be transported when visiting friends or family, making daily shopping or going to a concert this weekend, in other words, doing everything they could do before they were hit by dementia. The system therefore fulfils two things that are absolutely crucial for us in the Left, namely that the citizen should have the freedom to live the life that the citizen himself has chosen, while at the same time lifting part of the great task of caring for the relatives of demented people every day when they jump into the car and drive their loved ones to leisure activities. Now the transport system has been running in ten municipalities in the period 2018-2021, and the pity is that the transport system ran off the stack under the covid-19. The evaluation shows that on average it is 10%. It is difficult to say what the reasons are for the poor agreement, whether they are based on the covid-19 challenges, lack of need for driving dementia, limited knowledge of the scheme or an active opt-out. The evaluation points out that those using the transport system benefit from it. Several experience a sense of freedom and independence by being able to visit acquaintances themselves and go to leisure opportunities, that is, doing things without being dependent on others. There is an overall picture that the scheme contributes to increased well-being among citizens, relief of relatives and better opportunities for demented people to live with leisure activities and social relations. We in the Left believe this to be very positive. That is why we also regret the fact that we do not have a stronger data base to judge the rate pool initiative, because this creates uncertainty about the results and, above all, the economy. That is pointed out, for example. in the evaluation in relation to the costs involved in making the scheme nationwide, that it will cost between 2.3 and 8.2 million. kr., and it is mentioned at the same time that it is probably underestimated due to covid-19. During the transport scheme experiment, the transport pool covered the costs of driving and accompanying, but not the various administrative costs. This means that the municipalities themselves have incurred the costs of sending questionnaires and other communications to the citizens, of administering the scheme, of the visitation scheme, etc. We do not know the full cost picture of administration, as it has not been a requirement for the municipalities to determine the cost of administration under the experimental scheme. So there are a number of unknowns that we can reasonably expect us to impose additional costs and a greater administrative burden on municipalities, if only driving and accompanying them are financed by a national scheme. We in the Left therefore want a clearer basis for the financing calculations, and we hope that we can agree on a joint report that we can work on and that we can perhaps also look at the excess funds and whether we could use them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419134015	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we are moving forward, and the next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419134033	Thank you. This is a very good proposal that the SF has put forward here. It often has very major consequences both for the individual and for the relatives when a citizen is affected by dementia, and it should therefore be a high priority that we ensure the necessary help for the citizens and support for the relatives. There is a need for a wide range of interventions in the area of dementia, and it is particularly important that we prevent loneliness and social isolation among citizens who continue to live in their own homes. It is very important for the quality of life of citizens that they have the opportunity to come out, visit family and friends and take advantage of cultural services and take part in leisure activities. For many, that will not be the case. There are, of course, plenty of older citizens who do not have relatives living in their immediate vicinity, and there are also plenty of older citizens who, although they have their relatives living just around the corner or nearby, are in the situation that their relatives actually have a job and that, by their very nature, they cannot be available on a daily basis when the citizen needs it. That is why it is very good that this pilot scheme has been put in place and I can tell you that because we have not been able to make it, because it has been made under the rate pool scheme, where we did not participate and it has been carried out in a dozen municipalities, and what you can see from the evaluation is that the citizens are happy, that the relatives are happy, that they are safe with the scheme, and, in general, the evaluation concludes that it has had an impact on the fact that there is significantly more well-being among the citizens themselves and among the more secure relatives. That is why it makes very good sense to continue with the scheme, and I would also like to say that it is not because we have not participated that I think there is the same weakness in the social, health and labour market reserve as there is in the rate pool when conducting experiments. It can be said that it is excellent not to continue schemes if the attempt shows that this is something that the citizen cannot use, but that it does not make much sense, that we spend large amounts of public money on experimental schemes and we then conclude that it was a very good idea, that everyone is happy and that we are therefore not continuing it. So we really have a problem by not continuing this. I note that there is a discussion about funding. In other words, one might ask how well a financial basis it is to refer to the room for manoeuvre it is not because we do not like to spend money from the room for manoeuvre and I have also noted that the Minister and also other rapporteurs have mentioned that there may be an uncertainty about the costs, and that is fair enough. However, I would like to say that it is also a little bad that we have evaluations carried out and that, when the evaluation shows that it will probably cost 2-8 million. kr., then say no, I guess that's not true. But it is just to mention that it may seem silly and that we should be careful not to spend too much money on evaluations if we do not quite believe in what comes out of them. Having said that, however, it is fair to say that Mrs Jane Heitmann also pointed out in her rapporteur's speech that there may be uncertainties about the fact that so few citizens have used the scheme because there have been covid-19 etc. The short and the long term is that we are in favour of the need to discuss funding for this, but I would also like to say that if we carry out experiments of this nature, which the citizens and their relatives are extremely pleased with, and where we have to say that it is a success and then we do not find a way to carry it forward, then it seems to be extremely clumsy. In any case, it must reflect on how much sense it makes with many of the attempts we are making, including under the new social, health and labour market reserve system. So the short and the long term is that we think it is a good proposal and that we are happy to support it, but we have the reservation that it presupposes that we find a solution to the financing, and I hope we can do so in the committee's work, and I shall convey a greeting from the Radical Left, which has a similar reservation. I understand that they, like us, think it is a good proposal, but that there is a reservation about funding, so the Radicals cannot support the proposal immediately either. But that is a very good proposal, and let us find a solution in committee to this, so that we can either extend the system or that, as I have already heard the authors of the motion, we can at least find a system whereby we can continue the experiment within the framework that is left over.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419134550	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And that means that we move on to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419134603	Thank you. Thank you very much to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. I believe that everyone who, in the course of either their working life or their private life, has become acquainted with people with dementia is fully aware that it is a particularly vulnerable group which in many ways requires that we as an environment and that we as a society give it extra attention and give the helping hand that it takes to get a daily play together, where one still gets out, where one still has an active life, with all the challenges that now lie in it when one has a dementia diagnosis, because it is not straightforward. It is not so easy to transport yourself to the activities you would like to participate in, or to the family or friends you would like to visit. And that is why I have enormous sympathy for this proposal. There is also something quite fundamental political in it, as I think Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten was very, very nice about this, which is why we are making experimental arrangements. Sometimes it's such an easy thing as a politician to resort to. Then you can always go back and say: Well, we've got a trial plan through. One spends a fortune evaluating it, almost more money than what the initiative itself has cost, and then it is clear that then one stands on the other side and has to decide whether or not to extend it to the rest of the country. And there is something basically significant about the fact that when a good evaluation has been carried out which points to the positive effects this has had, yes, the obvious thing will also be to spread it, and I also have a great deal of sympathy for that, and that is not a lot of money. Then it is true that there is uncertainty about funding, but I also think that when you have done this evaluation in relation to funding, you have had a look for the special period that has been there from 2018-2021, where the experimental scheme has been, in relation to the visit/activity level, etc. in society. For many years we Conservatives have been quite enthusiastic about this idea about the rock map scheme, and in fact I would rather have something like this covered in a rock map scheme. In the financial bill we presented, we set aside 650 million. kr. to double the clip card scheme, so that it is not only for half an hour, but for a whole hour you have the right to extend the target group, which has access, so that it will also apply, for example, to home residents with dementia. So one gets the opportunity to prioritize time on what matters to oneself, which for some would be getting out and accompanying transport, come out with what it entails, and for others the value would consist of activity in the home, which can bring about some quality of life and have some impact on the individual. And we like the idea of the clipboard model because we think there is some freedom in it. We are, in fact, in favour of this motion for a resolution. Then we will have to see how we get that country in committee and whether we can create a sense of security in relation to the uncertainty that has arisen in relation to the economy. But we have a lot of sympathy for this proposal. And if SF doesn't get it through in this format, it's always something you can move on to some financial law negotiations waiting, I think, later this year. But thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419134916	There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419134920	Thank you. Clipboards? Where I come from, all the rock maps in public transport were abolished years ago, so it is kind of weird to bring it up again, and I know that this is another rock map to which Mrs Abildgaard refers here. However, the proposal is actually a true copy of the offer that already applies to citizens with physical disabilities. This is the opportunity to call and say that you need to be transported to different places, and not to risk getting lost in ticketing systems and timetables and everything else, you will get the same regime as applies to citizens with physical disabilities. Is it not restrictive in itself if one were to turn it into a rock map, where one is entitled to half an hour or a full hour's help, how often it is now? It is, of course, a rather different solution, it has to be said, than what is in the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419135019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419135022	Basically, it's about giving people self-determination and giving people influence on their own lives and on their own everyday lives, and I recognise that it's not the same thing, and that you wouldn't necessarily be able to cover this one hundred percent under a rock card scheme. It is just to say that in the financial bill we have made, we have given priority to the rock card system with the self-determination that we think lies in what is very, very valuable to the individual citizen. I recognise that the people who want to carry out the task of the transport system that is being set up here must also have specific competences, etc. It's just to say, that's the model we've chosen in our financial law game. I have a great deal of sympathy for it; I can easily see the purpose of it, also because it is a modest amount.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419135057	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419135059	I think there are a lot of us who have tried to have relatives who also spend a lot of time helping transport in all sorts of different ways, but one of these good examples in this evaluation report is the man who is able to transport himself to his daughter, who is ready with a cozy summer dinner with good friends, and who is also being transported back home, and where everyone can be confident that there is help to lock doors and unlock them again. It is, of course, a rather different solution than what Mrs Abildgaard is proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419135136	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419135137	I do not know whether Mrs Kirsten Normann and I are talking a little bit past each other, because I think Mrs Kirsten Normann places on me a proposal that I have not really raised. I am just pointing out how we have given priority to the Conservative People's Party's initiative in terms of increasing citizens' self-determination. I am aware that there are many relatives of dementia sufferers who undertake a very large task in relation to escorts and so on. So we have very much sympathy for this proposal and recognise the very good evaluation that lies there. So we are constructively entering the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419135208	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we can move on to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419135229	Thank you. Thanks to the Socialist People's Party for making this proposal and thus giving us the opportunity to have a discussion on the situation of people affected by dementia. Dementia is a very severe disease, both for those who are affected, but also for the relatives. It is something that is discussed a great deal, and it is quite, quite right that it is also discussed in relation to the relatives who experience how the person they have known throughout their lives disappears, maybe changes personality and eventually cannot recognize their loved ones. It is very, very sad, and that is why we must do everything we can to make life as good and tolerable to the person who has been diagnosed with dementia and to help the relatives in the best way possible through the challenges arising from being closely associated with a person affected by dementia. SF has proposed to implement a nationwide transport scheme for leisure activities for citizens suffering from dementia. It is a very sympathetic proposal. Of course, there are some questions which cannot be answered in the resolution: who will stand for it? Is that the municipalities? Is it, as the proposal immediately says, a national scheme? In the last case, it's a pretty untested model. It is not quite clear, but of course it is something that we can have a positive discussion on. The main thing is that it's gonna get started. In the Danish People's Party we have always tried to give priority to the well-being of the elderly. We need a policy of dignity, means of loneliness, and we have improved economic conditions. What I really think has been best is the so-called rock card system, which means that elderly people who are searched for home help, including those living in nursing homes, are entitled to half an hour's extra aid per week, which is freely available. Most municipalities still have the scheme, although some unfortunately used the transition to the municipal block grant to abolish or reduce the scheme. For the Danish People's Party, it is an opportunity both to look at the rock map scheme, look at the rules on individual transport and, of course, the present proposal in relation to increasing the quality of life of people living with dementia. The advantage of the rock card system is, of course, that if the elderly carers themselves can dispose of their own time, they can decide for themselves what the time is to be spent on without the framework laid down in the present proposal. However, I will certainly not reject the SF's proposal and I am glad that we will have the discussion. So SF just needs to be thanked.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419135505	And we also thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419135523	I would also like to start by thanking the SF for putting forward this proposal so that, if nothing else, we can discuss what it is, there is a dignified care of the elderly and a dignified care of the people who unfortunately suffer from dementia. As has already been said here from the platform, I think we have all got to know the very, very terrible disease dementia, which, when you are hit, among other things. can bring about this by simply changing personality and not recognizing one's loved ones, so all these different things that also hit the next of kin really, really hard. Where you may have had quite a normal and active life before, you may have taken part in a lot of activities, had a social life, seen your family and your friends, raised and made all the things that I think we all probably all agree on helping to give life value and meaning, you may experience that it suddenly falls apart because you not only get older but also suffer from a dementia disease. I would like an answer to a question that I also asked the Minister before, namely why the municipalities are not already using this opportunity today. But in New Citizens we basically believe that we should look at things quite differently, among other things. the elderly, because we want the money to follow the individual elderly. You must be allowed to decide in your own life, even when you are older, because we do not think that you should have other rights, that you should not have worse rights and less opportunities to live your life when you get older. It is clear that when you get older, there are also some things that you are more challenged on, and that could be done, for example. be getting out of the house, visiting friends and family etc. So it sounds positive that there might be a report in committee. We look forward to getting answers to the questions that are in relation to why the municipalities are not using it today, but in New Citizens we would also like to decentralise. And when we talk about decentralization, we do not talk about decentralising into the municipalities; then we talk about decentralising all the way to the individual institutions and to the individual Danes. And there would be our policy on the elderly, which we have formulated very loudly and clearly, at least be really, really good here, because the money would then follow the individual elderly one to one. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419135754	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419135805	Thank you very much for that, and also thank you for the positive statements on the proposal to ensure transport to citizens with dementia, a proposal which I myself think is insanely important. When I had the proposal in the morning of time for a pool of rates, two things were true: I had just taken part in a seminar with citizens with Alzheimer's and one woman explained how the dementia diagnosis had led to her losing her driving licence. If she were still to have an active life for as long as possible, she would in the future have to find out about ticket systems, timetables, stops, etc., but already the first time she tried hard on public transport, she panicked. She simply couldn't orientate herself and didn't know where to get off, so she gave up and now depended on others to pick her up and bring her out. She therefore wanted a driving system such as that which applies to citizens with physical disabilities... neither more nor less... for her illness had also become a handicap, which just prevented her from doing what she wanted to do. By the way, we had just agreed on a dementia action plan, a plan in which we also had the objective of 90 per cent. of all citizens with dementia also had to have a diagnosis. Early diagnosis makes very good sense because it allows for early preventive action, where the patient can influence the life that awaits when the disease develops, but if the diagnosis alone is seen as a restriction, as when, for example, one finds that the patient is suffering. If you lose your driving licence, or if you do not have the opportunity to keep yourself engaged in social activities, you do understand that there are some patients who delay the time when you have to make this diagnosis. I was really pleased that we could agree on the experimental scheme at that time. We set aside 40 million. kr., initially to 5 municipalities, it was later extended to 10 municipalities, but the most expensive part of the project seems to have been the evaluation. On the other hand, there is only good experience with the project," says the evaluation. Both citizens, relatives, employees and drivers agree on how life-confirming it is that people can now be assured of safe transport with dementia. And as I said, the project did not come close to costing the 40 million. kr.; the evaluation estimates that the scheme can be rolled out to the whole country for a price of between 2.3 million. 8,2 million and 8,2 million respectively. kr. I have noted that the Minister has reservations about part of the experiment, because that part of the trial period was also affected by corona, and so the consultant report itself says, although it is initially concluded that this evaluation can be done even if the trial period hits corona. But that also means that if the evaluation is not useful as it is now, perhaps we should have extended the trial period instead. I have already asked the Minister about this, and it would be my suggestion in the committee's next reading that if the data base is not enough right now to make a proper price calculation, it might perhaps make sense that instead of extending the period and thus finding out what it would cost to extend this system to the whole country. It certainly does not make sense, as Enhedslisten also pointed out, to initiate an experiment and spend money on evaluation and then conclude that it is a very good idea and therefore we will not continue with it. I don't think anyone in this Parliament thinks so either. So I think that it makes very good sense to take the discussion in committee on how the project can be continued, possibly as an extended experimental scheme, or what it takes for the project to be disseminated throughout the country. At any rate, it is a matter of my heart that we have very good offers to citizens with dementia, so perhaps in the future it would make sense to have this diagnosis in time, because it has become clear to citizens with a possible dementia diagnosis that we as a society have some good opportunities to prevent the terrible progression, which is also a consequence of a dementia disease. So thank you for the very fine reception today and we will discuss it further in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419140247	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419140308	The debate is open. Sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419140326	Thank you for that, President. The draft law, which we are about to discuss now, translates a small part of a very broad political agreement on the reserve for measures, among other things. the social area for 2022-2025. The agreement includes the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Conservatives, the Alternative, the Liberal Alliance and the Christian Democrats. And thank you for that, because it is a good thing that we are so many parties behind this series of initiatives that are basically aimed at making life and everyday life a little better for some of those in our society who are in one way or another having difficulty. And that is what this bill is all about. The aim of the draft law is to strengthen the legal certainty of citizens in the social field and, above all, in the field of disability. It must therefore help to ensure that citizens receive the help and support to which they are entitled. The bill here is by no means alone. If we just look at the broad agreement on the social reserve mentioned, there are four different broad themes within the initiatives that are concerned with ensuring better legal certainty for people with disabilities. And the bill here is then about part of the theme called enhanced follow-up and supervision of the municipalities. Firstly, the proposal to make more stringent demands on the municipalities' treatment of the so-called Denmark map of conversion rates, i.e. this table, which comes once a year, is about the extent to which the decisions of the various municipalities are reversed when they are appealed to the Ankestyrelsen. In future, local authorities will not only have to deal with the Danmark map; they will also have to decide whether there is a need to draw up an action plan to strengthen the legal quality of the municipal procedures. And if they come to the conclusion that there is no need for this, they must inform the Ankestyrelsen, who will then be able to impose an action plan on the municipality anyway, if the Ankestyrelsen considers that this is actually needed in the municipality concerned. It is very important that all the municipalities in the country focus on legal certainty in the social field, and this proposal should very much contribute to that. Secondly, the draft law contains a proposal to extend the municipal authority's obligation to discuss the results and conclusions of the Ankestyrelsen, which are important for the municipality. Nowadays, the municipal council is only required to discuss the practice study carried out by the Ankestyrelsen, and with the proposal here we give the Ankestyrelsen the opportunity to decide that a municipal council should also deal with other studies and activities of the Ankestyrelsen which concern the municipality concerned. As I said, this bill cannot, of course, stand alone, and neither can it. However, along with a number of other initiatives, I believe and hope that this proposal can also help to strengthen legal certainty in the social and disability fields, which is also needed. That is why, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419140638	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419140642	Thank you so much. Action is really needed in the specialized social field, in other words in the field of disability. It sails out in the municipalities. Does the rapporteur really believe that this proposal is enough precisely to ensure legal certainty and ensure that the people with disabilities who live around the various municipalities also receive the right help for the first time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419140707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419140708	No, I certainly don't think that's enough. However, as I said in my speech, it is not a proposal that stands alone. On the one hand, it is part of a rather larger set of initiatives in this agreement on the social, employment and health reserve, and on the other hand we are doing other things. I mean, in the Finance Act there is, for example. This, too, is the extension of the early warning systems. And then we are in the process of evaluating the whole of the specialized social area precisely because there are many challenges in this area, and that evaluation must be followed up on politically before such an awfully long time, so I really hope that some of this will be addressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419140752	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419140754	Thank you. Yeah, we're waiting anxiously for this evaluation. So, in New Citizens, we can see clearly that the municipalities are unable to cope with the problem of disability. Unfortunately, we can see that too many people do not get the help they are entitled to, that you cannot take the help with, if you move the municipality, that you sort of get tied up. There's a lot of trouble. Does the rapporteur not think that the municipalities have had the chance for so many years and that it is time for us to find another solution, for example? to get the handicap area out of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419140826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419140827	Again, I fully agree that there are things that are not working well enough and that are not working well as it is working today. There are citizens who must fight a long battle with the municipality to get the help they need and claim. So far, I agree, but I am not sure that it will solve all the problems in this area if you move the area to somewhere else. I am afraid that many of the problems will follow. But all this is something that we need to talk about in the wake of the evaluation that is coming soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419140858	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. I'm just gonna make sure who's the SF's rapporteur. It is a little difficult when it is the case that the rapporteur is changed in relation to what has been reported, then it is not quite possible to control it completely. But that means that now we go to the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419140936	Thank you for the floor, President. Today, we are dealing first with a legislative proposal which follows directly from the political agreement on the ssa reserve, which was concluded back in November last year with a broad settlement in the Folketing. And that is why I am also pleased that today, with the legislative proposal, we can finally adopt parts of the resolutions that we took back six months ago. Because with this bill we will first of all ensure that the requirements for the municipal council to deal with the Danish map are tightened up. And that is actually an important tightening-up. Because although we in the Left are defending municipal autonomy and the self-determination of the municipalities, we have to say that here we have to stand on the side of the citizens. And, unfortunately, we need to tighten this up when we talk about legal certainty and disability policy. Most recently, the National Audit Office's report on the management of the disability area came in March, and here it was stated in the verdict that the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Elders has had an unsatisfactory oversight of the municipalities' administration of the provisions of the Service Act in the field of disability, and that for several years the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Elders has not followed up its knowledge of problems with the administration of the disability area. Most importantly, the Ansestyrelsen has transformed the decisions of the municipalities in more than one third of the cases complained to the Ankestyrelsen, among others. because the municipalities have not complied with applicable rules and laws. A similar conclusion came back in 2020 with the analysis of legal certainty by the Lawyer Council and the Civil Service Agency for vulnerable citizens. And I could go on. For the problems of legal certainty for citizens with disabilities are unfortunately not a new issue, and it is therefore disappointing that the Minister has repeatedly postponed negotiations on the long-awaited evaluation of the specialized social area. Most recently we heard that it was due to be presented at the beginning of 2022, but my calendar now says soon May, and we still haven't seen the shadow of that evaluation. Specifically, we are in danger of having a group of vulnerable citizens with disabilities who do not receive the benefits to which they are entitled, and in the end it could mean a deterioration in the quality of life and, perhaps even worse, a shortening of the life span for these citizens. And I simply do not think that is worthy of the rule of law. That is why we also need to act when we can see that we have a group of citizens who do not get the help they need, to which they are even entitled. For the Left, it is essential that citizens' legal certainty and confidence in the management of disability be improved. This is, of course, because we in the Left want equal opportunities for everyone, regardless of gender, age or disability. We want a diverse society where there is room to be who you are and a society where you can be allowed to contribute with your abilities and competences. And, of course, citizens with disabilities must have exactly the same legal status as citizens without disabilities. For the more people with disabilities become part of the community, the more they get into education and the more they get into employment. Frankly, we owe this effort to some of our most vulnerable citizens, for example. citizens with disabilities. So it is high time we started this work. In any case, I should like to welcome the rapporteur of the Left in this area, because it is not really me, but I am speaking on behalf of the Left Socialist rapporteur and saying that we are voting in favour of the draft law. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419141344	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we can move on to Mrs Ina Strejer-Schmidt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419141353	Unfortunately, our rapporteur does not have the opportunity to be here today either, so I will give her speech instead. The SF is fighting for the strengthening of legal certainty in the social field. That is why it is a step forward that we can now first deal with L 151, which can help to strengthen legal certainty in the social field and thus ensure that the right help comes out to the citizens at the right time. We do this by tightening up the requirements for the follow-up of the municipal council on the Danmark map and giving the Ankestyrelsen the opportunity to instruct the municipal council itself to draw up an action plan. Legal certainty is further strengthened by the fact that the Ankestyrelsen can now decide that the municipal council should examine the results of other activities and studies of the Ankestyrelsen. It has been very important for the players in the disability field that the Ankestyrelsen was given these opportunities to actively follow up on the Danish map and that they were given increased powers vis-à-vis the municipalities. This is an important step towards better legal certainty. This helps to strengthen the quality of local authorities' procedures. It is no secret that there have long been legal challenges in the area of disability. There are simply too many mistakes in that part of municipal decisions in the field of disability. Despite many cases, there has not yet been a reduction in repatriations and conversion rates; on the contrary, they have increased. It is the citizens with physical and mental disabilities who really need help that the system fails when mistakes are made. Such high conversion rates would never be accepted, for example. tax area. We should not have a situation in which the area of legal certainty is ranked and minimized, as it currently does. Proper decision increases confidence and strengthens welfare, for these citizens need help. They do not have time to wait for wrong decisions or long processing times. They need the right help to arrive at the right time and that their challenges can be addressed so that they can be compensated for their disability. They cannot wait another six to ten months for their case to be reversed. In the worst case scenario, the need for help is growing, and neither the citizens nor society are served by it. For the SF, the goal is for us to have a legal situation in which all citizens with disabilities can receive the necessary help in good time and where public authorities are considered to be the guarantor of this very thing. We must have a system that is on the side of the citizens and that contributes with the knowledge that ensures that the right help is provided at the right time. That is why the SF can of course vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419141635	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419141643	Thank you. With this bill, we are taking a small step towards better legal certainty in the area of disability and social affairs. That's good, but it's definitely needed too. In fact, legal certainty in the social field and in the area of disability is extremely bad. This shows the towering rates in the municipalities. If you go in and look at the Danish map with the figures for 2020, you can see that the conversion rate was about a third in the social field, at well over 40%, a few and forty percent, in the adult disability area, while the child disability area peaked at 52 per cent. The explanations in the municipalities are many, I see, in this matter. On the other hand, they are very rarely good, and this also applies when you look at the hearing answer that KL has delivered to the bill here. It is true, as the KL points out, that the conversion rates relate only to the cases complained of, but it is at the same time that we actually know from the practical investigations carried out in these areas that there are also incredibly many errors in the cases not complained of. So this is a greeting to the National Association of Municipalities, where I would say that the argument does not stand. Having said that, I also think I owe it to say that we should not, of course, cut all municipalities together. But overall, I do not think there is any doubt that the municipalities are not managing this area well enough. Therefore, it is also good that with the bill here we tighten up the municipalities' obligations to actively deal with the annual case reports, and that we give the Ankestyrelsen the power to instruct the municipalities to draw up action plans for an improved procedure and also, as it is worth mentioning, to deal with other investigations by the Ankestyrelsen. We agree with the consultation parties, and there are several of them who point out that it would be sensible to commit the municipalities further. We believe, as Danske Handicap organisations expressly state, that there is a need for fundamental changes in visitation and funding to strengthen legal certainty in the first instance, because it is quite obvious that the citizen should not go through a complaint system in order to get the help to which he is entitled. We need a reform of the area which provides the best possible conditions for the citizens to actually get the right help for the first time and for them to get help quickly. It is nothing more than a few days ago there may be other colleagues in this Chamber who saw what was rolled up cases that were about applications to get a disabled car and where there were citizens in the Funen who had been waiting for more than one year to get their case dealt with at all. It is simply a procedure and a procedure which we, as a society, cannot be familiar with. That's why it's fine with the bill that's here. We would have liked to see much more in this proposal to strengthen legal certainty, but, as you know, the proposal is the implementation of a specific agreement that Enhedslisten has been involved in the negotiations on the social reserve in November 2021, which is why we naturally support the proposal. However, I must stress, just to conclude, which I began by saying that we consider this to be only a small step towards improved legal certainty, and that we are looking forward to the negotiations that I expect to begin shortly, in relation to a follow-up to the evaluation of the specialized social area, so that we can have a reorganisation of the area of disability and the other specialized social area, which ensures a thorough reform, so that we have a serious increase in citizens' legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419142108	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419142129	The bill here translates parts of the agreement on the reserve that we entered into in November last year. And the agreement that this is part of aims to strengthen legal certainty for citizens in the social field and to strengthen the political focus on legal certainty and the case-law in the social and disability sectors in the municipalities. In the Conservative People's Party, we are very concerned about strengthening legal certainty and the processing of social and disability cases. One of the tools to increase focus on the area is e.g.: through the Danish map, where the agreement on the reserve, which we entered into in November, and the draft law here, are helping to increase the focus on strengthening legal certainty and the processing of social and disability cases. This is an area which concerns people who really need help, and it is therefore important that the municipalities in the future take a separate view of whether there is a need to draw up an action plan to strengthen the legal quality of the municipal proceedings when examining the annual inventory of the conversion rates in municipal councils. The Conservative People's Party is included in the agreement on the reserve and to strengthen legal certainty and the procedure in the social field, which is why we of course also support the draft law here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419142256	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419142309	Thank you. It is, of course, a good thing that today we have to deal with a proposal aimed at better legal certainty for citizens, among others. The area of disability, which, unfortunately, in many cases does not have their cases properly dealt with in the municipalities. At the same time, however, I have to say that it is not so ambitious that the municipal councils will have the opportunity to draw up an action plan themselves in order to strengthen the legal quality of the proceedings and that the Ankestyrelsen must be able to oblige the municipalities to do so if they have not done so on their own initiative. I am glad that there is now a proposal for discussion in this Chamber, but I would also like the government to want more. Just look at the report, which came in 2020, on legal certainty for vulnerable citizens, who determined how bad things are with the proceedings in the municipalities. In the child-handicap area there were errors in over half of the cases complained to the Ankestyrelsen in 2019, even so glaring errors that the decision was reversed in the Ankestyrelsen. In DF, we have proposed to put an end to the possibility for municipalities to save money, because that is what this is all about by making wrong decisions in the social field. In fact, it was also something that the good people behind the report of 2020 had proposed, namely the creation of a legal certainty fund, in which the municipality has to pay in the amounts that they save because of illegal decisions, and then the amounts must go to compensation and support for the citizens that they have suffered. Well, I think it sounds so logical. Unfortunately, there was no support for this here in the Folketing. The bill is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough. In DF, we want to significantly improve legal certainty in the social field, and the proposal here does not. However, as the proposal is a small step in the right direction and an indication that we are not satisfied with the high conversion rates, we expect in DF to be able to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419142512	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no brief comments, and that means that the next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419142533	People with disabilities deserve better. People with disabilities and their relatives today find that in too many cases the municipalities administer illegally so that they do not get the help they are entitled to. About half of all cases are subject to errors, and 42 per cent. of the cases which end up in the Ankestyrelsen, are either reversed or sent back to the municipality for new treatment. In addition, the processing times are very long, the deadlines are routinely exceeded, and people with disabilities and their relatives tell me again and again about almost absurd decisions suggesting widespread cash thinking in the municipalities. In New Citizens, we are always on the side of the citizen. In fact, our proposal for social compensation covers four areas. For already today the municipalities set indicative processing times, but there is a lack of consistency when the deadlines are not met. Therefore, New Citizens suggest that it should trigger daily penalty payments when the municipalities exceed the processing time. We actually tabled a motion for a resolution on this, which was unfortunately not adopted. Because we want to introduce compensation for the citizen in the form of the transfer of the full enrichment or saving that the municipality has had by making a wrong or unlawful decision. The municipalities should not therefore be rewarded for their savings, which go beyond professionalism. In the event of an unlawful decision, the municipality shall pay compensation. The citizen must therefore be paid an amount equal to the value of the welfare allowance for the period when the citizen has been unduly denied it, and it must never be burdensome for the citizen to complain about the treatment of the system. Therefore, municipalities should be required to continue paying the aid when the citizen complains about a decision to remove the aid. For the Danes must have the welfare benefits to which they are entitled, and it should not pay for the municipalities not to comply with the legislation. The disabled area came under the municipalities in 2007 in connection with the municipal reform. We can see today that it was a mistake. The municipalities simply do not manage the task. People with disabilities and their families will be the losers, and as a society we cannot implicitly accept that. Something has to be done. The system must be broken down and something new must be built up, and I and New Citizens want to give all people with disabilities a uniform treatment. The conditions governing support and assistance must be the same for the individual with disabilities, whether you live in Gedser or in Skagen. And if you move across the municipality limit, you must of course be able to take your help with you, and you should not start all over again by applying again in a new municipality. To compensate for the laxity and maladministration of the municipalities, we will set up a national professional council which will be responsible for providing assistance and services to people with disabilities. Benefits and aid are financed by the State and are therefore taken away from the municipal cash-flow thinking. The Council is established with teams across the country, so there is never far to the nearest. Under the National Professional Council, we will employ teams and professionals to meet and assess the individual as an entire human being, in which all aspects of one's situation are involved in relation to relatives, friends, housing situation, disability, jobs, education, etc. The same team must, of course, follow the individual to the full, provide the necessary help and follow up regularly to adapt the help to the needs of the individual. It must be the end of a sea of municipal case officers where one hand does not know what the other does. Each team should be self-organising and autonomous under the responsibility of the law and coordination of the national council. Isolatedly, a new system based on particularly stronger professionalism in the case will be more expensive. Fewer changes in the Board of Appeal and the removal of the municipalities' ability to speculate on giving people with disabilities less than they are entitled to, everything else equal will lead to more getting more faster. But there is also the other side of the coin where more simple rules, correct and faster decisions will help the individual with disabilities to speed up clarification and, in many cases, a greater degree of self-sufficiency. And the family's financial loss in terms of lost labour income, when the municipality makes long-term offers, so that the relatives have to look after the family member themselves for long periods, also causes a socio-economic loss and reduces income from taxes and taxes. Overall, I am not actually convinced that it will be more expensive for society to create a better system and provide the right help for people with disabilities. It may end with a win-win where both the individual with disabilities, the relatives and the rest of society get something really good out of it. This proposal is a tiny, tiny step in the right direction, but much more is needed because people with disabilities deserve far better.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419143050	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and I should like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419143103	Thank you. I would like to sign for the receipt of the bill here and for the constructive debate we have had in this Chamber. As all of you have mentioned, this is a legislative proposal which translates parts of the theme of enhanced follow-up and supervision of the municipalities, which was part of the agreement on the allocation of the social, health and labour market reserve that we entered into in November and which was about improved legal certainty. The draft law here therefore contains, as you have mentioned, a strengthening of the requirements for the treatment of the Danish map by local authorities and an extension of the types of studies, etc., which the Ankestyrelsen may require the municipal council to deal with at a meeting. It must also be said rightly, as one of the rapporteurs noted, that the draft law is then also limited to implementing the initiatives agreed in the agreement last year and also limited by the funding we agreed on. I very much appreciate the concern expressed today, particularly with regard to the situation in the field of disability, and I would like to thank everyone for thinking with and being constructive in relation to possible solutions beyond what is currently happening. And I can pre-empt the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party by saying: No, I do not think that the draft law here is the aim. I believe that more and more things are needed, and that is why I am very much looking forward to completing the evaluation of the specialized social area in full and to getting the political discussions on that basis. So the input that has come here today and that has come through time, I will go along with it, and I can imagine nothing more than that they will also be raised by the parties. Finally, I would just like to make one comment on the criticisms which, among other things, have been made. KL has raised the bill in their hearing response. The purpose of the bill here is not to regulate detail in relation to the municipalities and increase bureaucracy, but to ensure that the municipal council focused on what I think we all agree on is extremely important: legal certainty in the municipality for the benefit of the citizens, and to provide the municipal council with tools to take control and make sensible decisions on an enlightened basis in the field of disability. I have heard many of you say that here from the platform today that there is a need, and I agree with that. If, despite the fact that this is a joint agreement, there are some questions, I look forward to the committee reading and, of course, I am available to clarify what might be desired.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419143331	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment. It's from Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419143338	Thank you so much. I would really like to ask the Minister something. Now we can see that, in our opinion, the municipalities simply do not manage the task. In any case, very many mistakes are made in this area, too, in relation to the time-limits for processing which are being drawn and so on. Does the Minister not think that it is time to use a little harder means, for example? That the municipalities have to compensate the citizen financially when they simply do not give them the right help for the first time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419143404	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419143405	Thank you. It is, of course, a discussion that we have had the opportunity to have in this Chamber in several rounds over recent years. What matters to me is that it must not be a struggle to get help. Too many people are experiencing that today. Nor should it be the case in our welfare societies that we should complain about getting the right help. That is why I believe that all our focus and also the economic priorities must be to make sure that the right decision is made for the first time, and not to build up large bureaucratic systems, which, although it may sound very simple and very deceptive, can be difficult to get up without spending much gunpowder on the bureaucratic part of it. So, no, I think that the right thing is for us to focus hard on the part that is about ensuring that citizens get the right decision and the right help for the first time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419143452	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419143452-2	That is very fine; we all want that. But if the municipalities can actually speculate on saving in this area completely without any kind of consequences, does the Minister not think that it is time to close that option and simply tell the municipalities that they must now compensate the citizens whom they do not give the right help, rather than keep talking about it? The figures speak their own clear language. The National Audit Office has just finished, let us just call it a crass criticism of the way in which the area is managed. So I guess it's time to take the spoon in the other hand and tell the municipalities that they simply have to comply with the legislation in force or, alternatively, the area is taken out completely in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419143534	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419143535	Thank you. The criticism of the National Audit Office was, of course, of the five levels at which it may be, a moderate criticism, and of course we must take it seriously and listen to it. However, I have to say that the premise underlying the question put by the questioner is that the municipalities are deliberately and openly breaking the law and do not give the citizens what they are entitled to, I do not share it. I firmly believe that we must take care of, among other things. as we do with the package here and with the agreement we made in the autumn • to see what we can do to support the casework out there, so that citizens both get the help they need, the first time and don't experience that it's a struggle to get that help, because that's what many people are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419143616	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419143630	The debate is open. And the first to speak is the Minister for Industry. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419143657	Thank you so much. And thank you to the Left for having tabled this motion for a resolution, which is, of course, about supporting the development of tourism and outdoor services, especially in our rural areas. Let me start by saying that we in the government are very much in agreement with the proposers that it is important that we create a good framework for our tourism industry throughout the country. We also agree that the availability of accommodation and good conditions for outdoor tourism are crucial, and that tourists and citizens should be able to live in and experience the nature and local village life in an authentic way. As a country, Denmark, we have quite a lot to offer, even if we do not have high mountains or impressive waterfalls. I think that we all felt quite clearly how much Denmark can do when the covid-19 pandemic made taking a holiday at home normal. We must clearly support this, and we must stick to it, and we must develop Danish tourism and the Danish outdoor opportunities. However, we cannot support the motion for a resolution as it stands here today, because we have already taken a number of steps to promote precisely those areas of action that are effective, those which are comprehensive, those which are already doing what the proposal is trying to achieve today. During the pandemic we invested, and it was therefore all of us throughout the Folketing, significantly in supporting the tourism and experience economy. Among other things, we did. through compensation schemes, summer packages and other incentives that focused on tourism. At the same time, there are already a number of targeted support schemes designed to promote tourism and develop outdoor initiatives, which ultimately also benefit rural areas. Among other things: The Danish Business Promotion Board has a pool of approx. 50 million kr. annual, which is implemented through what is called the local and cross-cutting tourism project pool, and is earmarked for destination development and targeted tourism initiatives. And in addition to this aid scheme, 200 million has also been set aside in 2022. kr. to the village renewal pool. It already allows municipalities to provide support for reconstruction and renovation projects, which can create some of these accommodation options, as the proposal also points out. In relation to outdoor tourism, the government has launched a number of initiatives that support activities in nature and maintain the interest in holidays in our rural areas • the interest we all felt so strongly during the pandemic. In order not to be a lie, the Danish Nature Agency has also made it possible today to spend the night in a number of different ways. It can, for example, be done. be campsites, it can be primitive accommodations, it can be in the forest floor, it can be in a hammock. In the summer of 2020, the Minister for the Environment also made it possible to pitch tents into even more of the state's forests, which means that today there is free tenting in 275 state forests. And then the number of person bookings at the government camp sites around the country has increased by more than 150 per cent. from 2013 to 2021, and this is something that also underlines that knowledge of outdoor activities is being widely disseminated and that already today there are good opportunities to combine outdoor activities with overnight accommodation in nature itself. Last but certainly not least, I also think it is worth mentioning today that we can soon publish the new national strategy for sustainable growth in Danish tourism. Among other things, it will: also focus on good sustainable accommodation provision and the development of sustainable outdoor tourism. It will also ensure that Denmark stands strong in the competition to get international visitors and tourists back; that the growth of Danish tourism takes place in a way that takes account of both the environment and climate goes hand in hand with economic growth, employment and social cohesion throughout our country; and that growth, as is also indicated in the name of the strategy, will, of course, be sustainable. So, to sum up, we have already invested significantly in supporting the tourism industry in rural areas, but more importantly, we have already launched a series of actions addressing the challenges raised by the Left with this resolution. And that is why we in the government believe that the way forward is to bring together the forces of the opportunities that we already have, rather than creating an incalculable jungle of new knob shots and new arrangements. And then we set the new direction for the growth of Danish tourism with the new national strategy • a strategy that ensures both economic, environmental and social sustainability. In my view, this is how we must ensure that tourists and citizens throughout the country benefit from the many great natural experiences and tourist offers offered by Denmark. And then I have not spent time in my speech here on the problem, which of course also lies in the funding of this proposal by the Left. But overall I can say that we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419144302	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419144304	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the speech. I would not have expected the Minister to support it either, but I am listening a lot to all the things the Minister says they have done. As a member of the Committee on Rural Development and the Isles and as rapporteur for tourism in the United Left, I will, of course, follow this closely. Because it is fine to create national strategies and so on, but things must also work out there in reality, and I actually think that this resolution could help things along the way so that they could be put in place quickly and come to work in reality. I think I would really like to hear the Minister's comment on this and ask whether the Minister does not see that you could actually strike no less than three birds with a spank here. So, on the long track, you could save on the demolition pool by renovating some of the houses that are already empty; you could help to support the tourism development in the villages and perhaps also hope that some of the tourists who came to visit eventually chose to settle in these villages. So why doesn't the minister really want to help beat three birds with one stone?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419144427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419144428	I'm just beginning to think that we're actually gonna hit more flies with a spanking of everything we're doing today. And I like the thinking behind this by saying: What if we took some of these properties, which were still to be demolished, and then got them turned into something that could live tourists in, instead of it just stood and decayed? For example: This village renewal pool, which is 200 million. kr. This year, of course, already allows the municipalities to provide support for reconstruction and renovation projects, which can create these accommodation options as precisely as possible. So there's at least one fly with, as far as I can count it. And then I think this thing about getting things that really work is right. That is also why I am more concerned with making the efforts we have set up work. Our summer package, our stimulus measures worked, and the pools we have now may seem more than having more pools made, which may even become even harder to find if you are a local player out in Tourism Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419144532	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419144533	Well, I agree with the Minister that we should also be careful that there are not too many pools. I just see here an opportunity that in a 3-year period we could actually have tested whether this might be a good idea. Because the idea of the resolution is precisely that local councils should themselves be involved, because this means that tourists visiting the village will become part of the village. So would the Minister not consider once again whether this could somehow have been happening on the ground?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419144608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419144608-2	I think we are getting very far in the way we involve our destination companies today, in the way we include what is called Danish Coastal and Natural Tourism, which is anchored primarily in our outermost regions, and when we put the new national strategy • it has not yet arrived, but it will soon come along with what we are already doing, then I think we are having a pretty nice palette of things we can do. I think we already have good pools. Now the Left is proposing to finance it with their draft budget, where there are among others. is the abolition of the right to a previous pension, Arnepensionen, and I think that this is an unfortunate financing. So, for many different reasons, I do not think this is the way we should go, but the intention, what we want to achieve, I think we are actually very much in agreement on. I think we are just on the right track with what is already in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419144704	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Brian Bressendorff. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419144717	Thank you for the floor. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe, in line with the proposers, that a good framework for tourism is important both in cities and in rural areas. We know that the income from tourists is important for the local economy and for local business around the country. That is why, of course, we also support the already existing pools, compensation schemes, summer packages and other measures taken by the government to support the local tourism and experience economy. With this motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution want first of all to require the government to create a pool of 15 million. kr. annually for 3 years to support the creation of local tourism houses. In addition, the proposers will require the government to create a pool of 10 million. kr. to support and promote outdoor tourism locally. As I have said, we fully agree with the proposers that it is important to support local tourism, especially after a period of decommissioning and restrictions associated with the covid-19 pandemic. This has, of course, had a major impact on both the tourism and experience economy during the last two seasons. The fact that we cannot support the motion for a resolution is due to the many measures already taken by the government and the Folketing. In order to support the tourism industry during the pandemic, we adopted together here in the Folketing a summer package in both 2020 and 2021, which contained several initiatives targeted tourism, including nature tourism in rural areas. In addition, the Board of Directors of Denmark's Business Promotion annually translates 50 million. kr. via the local and transversal tourism project pool. The government has also started work on a new national strategy for sustainable growth in Danish tourism, of which I look forward, of course, to the outcome. Finally, there are already various application pools, such as the rural pool, the village renewal pool, which allows for the application of grants for the projects mentioned in the motion for a resolution. Therefore, we do not think that any more pools are the right way to go. Social democracy cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. And I welcome from the Radical Left, which also does not support the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419144940	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have noted the statement of position, including that of the Radical Left. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. It's from Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419144948	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In fact, I would just like the Socialist rapporteur to confirm that the summer package does not exist anymore. I mean, it was there, but it does not support tourism development this summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419145010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419145011	No, we made both a summer package in 2020 and in 2021 to hold hands during the tourism and experience economy during the period when we were in a pandemic. In addition, however, as the Minister has also explained, a large number of other measures have been taken. Funds have been set aside for a conversion pool, international marketing of coastal and natural tourism, restarting efforts for coastal and natural tourism and everything else. And in 2021 750 million were set aside. kr. to the experience economy. So a large number of things are being done for both tourism and experience economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419145047	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419145048	Yes, there is. As rapporteur for tourism, I am also aware of this, but I do believe that something needs to be done in the villages. In other words, I think that we still need to reach out to ensure that exactly what was demanded in the Covid-19 period is followed to the point of keeping visitors in rural and rural areas as well. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419145119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419145120	Yeah, there's still a lot of things we have to do out there. I think most municipalities are well in the process of doing so, and that is also why there are already a number of pools that you can apply for, among other things. The village renewal pool, so you actually have the opportunity to do some of these actions out there and we support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419145140	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419145154	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, I have to say that we cannot support the proposal in the SF, and this is because the economy has been financed with the Left's financial bill, and we are probably not entirely in favour of this in the SF. Nor do I believe that the Left would accept the SF's draft budget as funding for a proposal. Having said that, however, I actually like the idea of converting some worn houses in rural areas into tourism houses. I think that it gives something to the people locally, because they like to have an opportunity to go into something that you can be together about. It can create some communities. It sets up some houses, and perhaps it also creates some life and some development and some jobs in the villages. That is why I really like the idea of tourism houses, and I think that this is an idea that we need to continue working on; we just need to find another form of funding. There is no doubt that there are many houses in rural areas that are worn out or deformed. We can at least read this in reports still away is a big problem and many of them are ready for demolition, but they could be converted into tourism houses. I think that this is a good continuation of the idea of settlement houses, which can be run both by private and local authorities, and which are really about getting some families to move in to try out life in a village and then settle there afterwards. The fact that the municipalities must have an explicit right of access to it, we in the SF made a proposal, and it is also on its way through the Folketing right now. It turned out that it wasn't quite present, but Ærø had actually made a settlement house, and I think, if I remember the number right, that it was 13 out of 19 families or something like that in the category that had actually ended up settling on Ærø afterwards. So it is actually useful to have settlement houses and possibly also tourism houses. It may not be right within this framework that we get to test it, but I think the idea is good, and I think it deserves an extra thought and an extra twist, so we can see how we can get on with it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419145421	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur and it is from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419145425	First of all, thank you very much for the positive statements. It is a pleasure to hear that there is one here, and I know this very well, who knows exactly what this is all about, namely the chairman of the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands. So thank you for that. When you live in a village, as I do, you see these empty houses, and sometimes you resent the fact that year after year they are becoming more and more destitute. They may help to ensure that no one else wants to move to the city. In the end, you can then apply for public funds from the municipality to tear them down. Rather than that, you could start something earlier and turn them into places where you might want to have visitors. So I would just like to say thank you because the SF is prepared to discuss this further. I'm thinking this could be combined with settlement houses. I also know that in other places artists have been made, where they have artists visiting these houses in turn to make exhibitions. The only condition is that the local people can visit the artist house along the way during the week when the artist lives there, also to create more life. Thank you for your positive statements.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419145541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419145542	Well, I'm thinking that we have a common interest with the Left in creating some life and some development in our villages. I just see that there are some potentials in this, also because it creates some community. It creates something to be the same about. It gives identity to the village, and it actually means a lot compared to also helping to drive development further to make it an attractive place to live. So I definitely think we should see how we can work on this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419145609	Mrs Anni Matthiesen for another brief comment? No. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Henning Hylllested. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419145619	Thank you. I would like to start by expressing good vibrations, let us call it that, in relation to this motion for a resolution. In fact, we think that there are some very good intentions in this, and we of course, especially after our whole experience of covid-19, etc., that there is still a need for initiatives in the field of tourism and, incidentally, settlements in rural areas. There is a great demand for what the Left also mentions in the motion for a resolution, namely microtourism, as we call it: nature bike tourism and such things. That's really good. In relation to these tourism houses, I would say that we think the idea is a good one, but I am a little sceptical. First of all, I do not think that the comparison with the local grocery completely lasts. Well, you want to sell it, so the residents can buy it on lots like you can with the local grocery store, but I think there's a difference. A local grocery store is a completely different institution than a tourism house will be, so I don't think it quite lasts. Then there will also be talk of, I can understand it all, that this very easily violates the cottage law, etc., in relation to it being such a kind of professional rental. The Left makes a point of saying in the motion for a resolution that this must not be a distortion of competition, and I find it very difficult to see how this can really be avoided. In my opinion, you come in direct competition with bed and breakfast accommodations for tourists around. So it contributes to a certain skepticism. Then I must admit that I have not experienced such a strange need. My inbox hasn't moved over with requests from rural areas and from villages around that this is really something you're passionate about in the local council or with individual residents, but okay. And, of course, we have some strong reservations about funding. The fact that we should be buying into the Left Finance Bill for 2022 in this context is probably not going to happen, but there might be other options if it were. The government also has a number of objections; we have heard some of them today from both the Minister for Industry and the Social Democrat rapporteur. In fact, it is considered that a number of the initiatives or initiatives proposed here are available in the form of the Erhvervspromoterstyrelsen's pool and the Village Renewal Pool, etc. etc. That is all mentioned. The question is whether this has led to or will lead to the promotion of the initiatives mentioned here. Perhaps this should be used to clarify the committee's work as well as to clarify: What has been the result of this? Some of this is relatively new, but I think we should have that figured out in committee. If it has led to something, how much has it brought with it, and will this contribute to the further flowering of tourism in villages, etc.? I think that is interesting, and we will certainly use the work of the committee to clarify that. I can understand that I have read out that a number of hurdles are also listed for this in relation to the summer cottage law I have already mentioned that with professional rentals in relation to the summer cottage law etc. etc. But that must also apply in some way to me. I cannot get anything else into my head for the initiatives that the government believes are already available, and which are, of course, one of them. state the reasons for its rejection. So I would have liked to know how this is related. Why shouldn't this apply to the government's actions? It may be a little cryptic, but I hope it's understood. So we believe that we will actually use the work of the committee to look at the possibilities offered by the motion for a resolution by the Left. We want to drill into the results, as I said, and the initiatives so far, so that we really look forward to a committee work which will also clarify some of the problems I think there are with the motion for a resolution, and that we can get some clarification on what it is more precisely, and also whether this cannot in some sensible way form part of this national strategy, which I can then understand, and I have not heard before it may be because I am not following the government's path. I can only make it work in some way in the national strategy. I do not want to hide the fact that we are sceptical about directly voting in favour of the resolution here, but, as I said, we are actually looking forward to a committee work which should lead to something positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419150132	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419150139	Thank you very much, sir. Henning Hyllested for a after all little such a positive reception. Indeed, I think that there are some good things in this, and I agree with the rapporteur quite rightly, in other words, how, if there are concerns on the part of the government in relation to this, it is precisely in harmony with what the government itself will do, as the Minister said. But we must have dug that into the committee work. I would like to hear: Bakker Enhedslisten up about settlement houses?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419150213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419150215	Yes, we do, and we have done so in the legislative process we are doing in relation to the settlement houses. We think this is a very good idea. I also think I can say that there is a very direct purpose in the settlement houses for people like to be able to try out what it is, for example. I think it is very necessary to live on an island, and I see nothing more than that there is some positive experience from it. So we support that. I think that tourism houses somewhere in my view • but I am completely open to the fact that there may be others entering it • have a slightly different character and, as I said, I have not experienced such a great need and desire for local residents to run a tourism house because it does not, like, have a direct purpose in seeking newcomers to the local village.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419150318	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419150320	I can then inform the rapporteur that I have the first few villages that have already raised their hands and said: we want to, we already have the house to stand, which has been empty for many years, and we, as a local council, are prepared to embark on that work. Then I have to say that I wonder whether it is because it is called "tourism houses'. Well, is that the word that bothers the Enhedslisten? Otherwise, there is not much difference between a settlement house and a tourism house. Because it may well be that as a tourist you only rent the tourist house for 14 days to find out if it is a nice place to be, but you might end up living there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419150359	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419150401	Yeah, ideally, it can, of course. I am not going to deny that, and all honour and respect for the fact that in some places there are some local councils that want to take on the task, certainly. I thought they were real. I just haven't run into them. No, I still think that there is a difference between whether a family rents itself in for 14 days as tourists, because they want to visit this area like any other tourist or just like they would in any other area and explore it, and then it is, in relation to the settlement houses, which have a completely different purpose. Here it is, like, over much longer periods of time, and people can rent in and have the opportunity to see what it means to live here in reality. I think there's a big difference between that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419150445	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419150455	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much to the authors of this excellent proposal. There is no doubt that we in the Conservative People's Party and myself, as Vice-President of the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands, would like to see increased rural development. There is no doubt about that. And that also applies to tourism. There are a lot of local initiatives out there. As far as I remember, there are 56 municipalities which are covered by rural areas, and all the municipalities also have a pool from which to apply. We do not quite see that the solution that the Left has come up with here is the right one. On the contrary, we see, like the government, that there are many pools that can be searched from out there. Among other things: has been mentioned the business promotion pool and the village pool, and there is also a reference to the application to the • as far as I remember that funds can be sought for the conversion of buildings to promote tourism and accommodation, and we think this is really, really good. I am personally on our local council and there we typically seek the money from the citizens who live in the area and then the municipality, and we actually think that is the best place to do it. That is why, unfortunately, we cannot support the proposal, but we recognise the intentions, and we really like the ideas that the Left has put forward, also in connection with this, that one can try to live in an area for a certain period, but a somewhat shorter period than if we are talking about settlement houses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419150655	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419150715	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party is always open to new initiatives that can benefit rural areas. It is part of our DNA, it is part of our policy, and in recent years we have done everything we could to strengthen rural areas and life out there, for example. when we took the initiative to raise the base allowance for the cottage rental, supported among other things. of bourgeois parties. We were very happy about that. We are also in contact with tourism actors on a weekly basis, which is why we also know that the proposal contained in the motion for a resolution by the Left is not something that we have heard anything about from these tourism actors. Nor have we heard from tourists who are hungry for the opportunity to live in a dilapidated house that has been renovated. However, if there were to be a wish from the bottom up, from the many actors in rural areas that we regularly talk to, we could well imagine that we would then sit down and talk about it. However, we will not fail to point out that there are already different possibilities for launching more things. For example: you can get help from the rural pool or you can apply for LAG funds. It is a proposal that comes from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party. This is not a particularly liberal proposal, since the municipalities are being allowed to pay, and I also think that funding is a little problematic. There is a good enough reference to the Left's draft budget, but we have not seen that. It seems a little woolly. If we had been more specific, we would also have been able to see what the funding would be like. So, like the other rapporteurs, we cannot support the proposal as it stands, even if we support the intention. The intention is, of course, good, because it is to strengthen opportunities for tourism and life in rural areas. We continue to support this. If we can do something about the committee procedure, we will be completely open to it. But thank you for putting this on the agenda. We're happy to discuss it every single time. It is a pleasure to discuss rural areas in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419150959	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur and it is from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419151001	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Sometimes you have to help things along the way. I mean, you can do that one way or the other. We know this, we in the Committee on Rural Development and the Islands have been sitting there for more than ten years. Sometimes, when you put a little money in, there's more than three times as much again, precisely through the volunteers, which there are a lot of in these villages. And it's not like the pot here is gonna fund it all. The idea is to help on the way to getting started, but it's actually the local councils that have to get involved and operate these houses. So for the fact that the Left is now just getting the public to pay, I would say that it is actually to help something along the way. And there we have to ask whether it is not true that otherwise we risk that the demolition pot may even grow and grow, and that is also to support the villages, hopefully, when you choose to tear down houses. Here we see just an opportunity to avoid tearing down quite as many houses.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419151117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419151119	I recognise that this is a creative proposal to prevent slippages in rural areas, which often desecrate villages. Whether this is the right way to do it, I have some doubts, and that is why we are really looking forward to the committee reading. It may be that we can do it in a slightly different way. It is also somewhat contradictory, because the resolution says that there is potential in rural areas. And if there is potential, I suppose there is also the possibility that private people can take action, and then they already have the opportunity to seek some funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419151205	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419151207	Yes, I certainly believe that even if you chose to put this money out to try to create some of these tourism houses, it will in any case require the local people, local councils and the businesses that are in the villages to give a hand. However, I am listening to the fact that the DF's rapporteur will be involved in discussing it during the committee procedure, i.e. whether there are things that can be twisted differently. I do not know whether this may mean a form of joint report or what does DF's rapporteur think?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419151246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419151247	As I said in my speech, it depends very much on what the individual actors in rural areas say. I mean, if they think it's a good idea and they can see some perspective in it, so please for me; but we just haven't heard from them that they think this is a good idea. There has been no desire for it, and we are in regular contact. But if we've missed something, we're always open to listen. Whether this is the right model, I have some doubts about, I would say to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, but thank you for the intention
ParlaMint-DK_20220419151320	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I see immediately that the rapporteurs who wanted to speak have been given the floor, so I can now give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419151341	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their consideration of this motion for a resolution which we are debating today and which should help to set in motion an experimental project in which we will create more life in the villages. Too many houses in the smaller towns stand and fall. We spend a lot of millions every year tearing down houses, and my idea with the proposal here was that if we could get a little ahead instead of always being behind the houses in these small towns, it could be that we could get more light in the windows of some of these houses around us. I can also say that I have discussed this proposal with various local councils, and I have also discussed it with various small tourism organisations around the world, whether it might be an idea that, for example, we should be able to do something about it. in the area around a hiking trail ensures that there are some accommodations in these tourism houses. And, above all, I can say that what the local councils I have talked to about the proposal here, in particular, was that they really wanted to make a special offer to tourists, so that when you stayed in a village house in their village, there was an opportunity for the children to go with the farmer on a trip to the stable and to help feed the animals, that it was an opportunity for the local carpenter to spend a day with the children building birdhouses or other things, that there was an opportunity to attend the service on Sunday morning in the village church, and that one was invited to join the cultural house in the village. So the idea is that local areas should help fill content and offers into these tourism houses, and that you also get a taste of what it is like to actually live in that village. It is quite right and correct that settlement houses are also some of the things that more and more smaller cities are fortunately seeing as a good opportunity to perhaps attract some new citizens to the city. The idea here was actually to try to get something new going, and yes, I hope that the minister for the area is also prepared to perhaps think this through. In any case, I can say that there are villages out there that would like to. Now I live in a small town with 300 households. We bought our grocery store ourselves, otherwise there was no grocery store. So we bought the grocery store on shares and owns the premises. We have also bought a nearby natural campsite, which we operate ourselves. It was a delicious area in a forest close to the village, which was suddenly put up for sale, and the village then bought the area on lots, and that means that I have a piece of property of 1,000 DKK. and thus owns part of the natural campsite in our village. The idea was a little the same here, that you could help create something that was new and perhaps also a little different and that way actually attract some people. Then I have to say that the idea actually came here in the coronatide, where, if anything, we have seen that especially the people who live in the largest cities looked away from there and wanted to go to the countryside. I thought: How crazy is it that they are not allowed to actually have a week or 14 days when they get the whole soul of the village into the package during that holiday period. These were my thoughts and they became a motion for a resolution, and I look forward to the committee reading. I can reveal as much as my husband is in a demolition group in the City of Billund, which goes around the villages to point out the houses to be demolished. And there I have to say that the pot set aside to tear down houses is too small there is a queue. And that's why the idea here could be that this could help to avoid tearing down some of these houses. But thank you for the debate. I look forward to the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419151844	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419151849	Yes, Mrs Anni Matthiesen is a very good example of what we have now discovered, namely that it is the fire-souls that run the work in many rural areas, in many villages and on the small islands around. That is why I am going to strike a blow for what might perhaps be an idea along the way. It is a little further in the future, I regret to say, and as we have discussed a great deal in the Rural Committee, this with open villages, and this with freeing them around, precisely in order to make room for the fire souls. Perhaps that could be part of it in some way. I think that should be part of the committee procedure. At least I'll take that up. Mrs Anni Matthiesen does not address my criticism of this if it is not very easy to distort competition, for example. existing bed and breakfast. I can see that Mrs Anni Matthiesen is scratching a number of things like stable visits, service, participation in cultural events and something like that up, right? Yes, that would probably be a good offer for some, but for others it wouldn't be, so they'll just be there as tourists and be allowed to dispose of their day themselves, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419152006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419152009	Yeah, there'll always be somebody who won't choose this for and who just wants to go around and look at what they want to do. But I just think that if you join the field and want to move into a village tourism house, you would also like to take part in some of the other things. And then I have to say again: I fully agree that this could well be an element in the free village situation, that is to say to set the villages freer. I've been working on these things for more than 10 years, and among other things. also the places where village pedals have been made, etc. I think that is very good, because we know that whatever initiatives are being taken in this area will bring the villagers closer together, and it may also be a little easier to sell just a few of the houses on the main street if you can see that there is light in the windows of some of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419152110	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419152113	I certainly do not disagree with what Mrs Matthiesen says. But I still do not think that I have been given an answer on how to avoid this coming into direct competition with, for example. bed and breakfast. At the time, I was involved in organising this strategy, and I remember that the Joint Council of Rural Regions pointed out that remember this rural tourism thing, and it was also included in a sentence, but I do not think anyone really understood what it really meant. But it actually involved a bit of the same with these local offers as stables to which you can take part, and what Mrs Anni Matthiesen mentions. It could be in bed and breakfast like an offer there. So still away: how to avoid getting into direct competition with existing offers?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419152153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419152155	I can reassure you, sir. Henning Hyllested with the fact that I am also in close contact with HORESTA etc., so when you also have to be careful not to overstep them, you also have to write in what I have written in the motion for a resolution to make sure that it does not distort competition. But I think that when you receive a number of applications from villages that want to do this, you have to stick your finger in the ground and then say, 'Well, have you asked in the local area if anyone is opposed to this?' Is there a nearby inn or bed and breakfast that doesn't actually want to be part of this? So again: I think that through the local dialogue with the local people, the local council will also know whether or not they should send an application.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419152240	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Rural and Islands Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419152258	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Industry. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419152321	Thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. I would say that both myself and the government are working to protect our children in general when they use the services of the tech giants, and that is because there are signs that the digital movement and opportunities of children can even be harmful, and the tech giants must take much greater responsibility for that. These are their platforms, and they must help to create a good framework for children and young people's digital movement, which is why I would also like to be quite honest and say that I actually have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that the SF has tabled the resolution here and that I also fully agree with what is the aim of the resolution. Specifically, SF then proposes that the government should be required to start work on developing a model for age verification on digital platforms and a definition of harmful content on social media. However, although this is a very important agenda, we cannot support the proposal as it stands at the moment, and I would like to clarify that a little. This is due, among other things, to: that we, on the part of the government, have taken a very ambitious line in the ongoing EU negotiations on the regulation on digital services, which is also called the DSA regulation, particularly in relation to a requirement for the protection of children and young people. For we see that a common European solution could be found to this issue. Tech giants are by nature global and international, and therefore the best solution would be a solution across borders. As I said, we agree with the objective: we need to take the digital well-being of children seriously, and we need to ensure a safe online environment for our children and young people, and I say this both as a minister, but of course also as a father, because I am also on the sidelines with children's movements on social media. We have already launched a number of initiatives. This summer we launched two projects that tighten the requirements for both tech giants and social media. Against this background, we have a new law on social media for discussion here in the Danish Parliament right now, and we have amended the Marketing Act, so the requirements for marketing to children and young people have been tightened up, and it was a law that entered into force on 1 January 2021. It is clear that the proposals and the austerity are not the solution to everything, but they are important steps along the way. Because it is obvious that tech giants who have content aimed at children must also protect children from content that children should not see. However, given that the tech giants are of a cross-border nature, national measures are not enough, and we also need to look against European cooperation in order to find solutions and, as I said, we are currently negotiating the so-called DSA, which among other things. includes requirements for the protection of children on digital platforms. As I said, we have set an ambitious line throughout and the government has supported the proposal for an age verification. However, I would also like to be honest and say that right now it is very difficult to see that there will be a majority in favour of it, and that is why, alongside the work that is going on in the European Union, I have also asked the talented people in the Ministry of Business to investigate what we can do to ensure that our children and young people can move safely online and they are not exposed to harmful content when they are online and what we can do to ensure that the tech giants live up to the responsibility that is theirs in this context. So what we are doing right now is that we gather experiences from other countries, from researchers and experts, and when we have come a little further in our studies, I will of course present Parliament with the possibilities that we assess lies within what we come to here. So, to round it all off, I would like to say that we are in full swing with various measures and studies, and not least the negotiations, as I say, on new pan-European initiatives, and although we do not necessarily expect age verification to be something that will be included in the final outcome, it cannot be completely excluded, and so we would like to wait for that track, just as we would also like to await our investigations into other countries' political actions. So, on this basis, we cannot support the resolution today, but we are continuing our work in the same direction as the resolution points out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419152829	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a few brief comments to be made to the Minister. First, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419152838	I know that I may be irritating a little by making a proposal again. After all, we have already agreed with the government that we need a digital child protection law. It's been two years, and I'm starting to get a little impatient on behalf of the kids. I simply cannot understand that we cannot just continue working on this in Denmark, just as we have done in relation to removing illegal content from the web; there we have also made a Danish model. But now that the government says in connection with the work and the DSA that they support the work on age verification, I would like to know whether the Minister has specifically spoken at Council meetings and said that Denmark would like to have age verification. Has the Minister allied with other countries and tried to make alliances to get through the idea of age verification or age confirmation? What exactly has the Minister done, what has Denmark done to protect children from harmful content on all the platforms where they come?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419152943	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419152945	First of all, I can understand impatience; frankly, I would say so. And I can also be a little sad myself to see that it is obviously very difficult to create a majority, including on the European stage, for age verification, which we have supported along the way. We have among other things. And it is in this way that there are, of course, Council discussions in which I, as Minister, am present and take the floor, but of course there are also a large number of debates where you have skilled people working in the field, so to speak, together with other countries, and for example. We in Denmark have had occasion to support Germany, which has taken up this proposal. So we are pushing for this, but the honest assessment that I receive is that it does not necessarily seem to be successful. And that's why I think it's a good idea for us to collect ourselves what is of experience that we could possibly use here in Denmark, and I would very much like to present it to the Danish Parliament when it's finished.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419153102	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419153104	But does that mean that the Minister supports age verification? And if this is the case, because it is at least what I hear that there will be no requirement for age verification. It is the requirement for age verification, which is the important, not age verification as an opportunity to protect children from harmful content, will the Minister help to make a Danish proposal with a requirement for age verification? And will the Minister help define harmful content, because that is also an element in moving forward with age verification? We need to know what it is that children can do with age, and then we must try to restrict access to the content that they should not be able to access. So will the Minister define harmful content? And will the Minister proceed with a Danish proposal on age verification if the DSA does not provide clarification?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419153202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419153204	I think it's a good idea with age verification. That is why we support the proposal when we deal with the DSA regulation. Then the question is what it leaves of the scope for action at national level, when and if the outcome becomes, as both the questioner and myself may also have an expectation of it being, and we need to clarify that before we can, as it were, go any further. Nowadays, we can get started and that's also what I've been asking for the good people in the Department of Business to do... to find out what we can do to make sure that our children and young people can travel safely online and not be exposed to harmful content that they don't have to meet. So, yes, I think we should look at how far we can go, but it should of course play ball against the compromise or where the DSA lands. I would not deny that we can also do something nationally, but I would just have liked us to be able to make it wider internationally because the tech giants are international in their nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419153300	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419153304	Thank you for that, too. Thank you to the Minister. The minister confuses me a little bit, because when we recently lawled L 146, the argument was that we had to get started now with national legislation, we did not have time to wait for the DSA. Why is it not the same argument that is being used here? After all, this is about our children, and it is about some inappropriate things that we should not have on the digital media. Well, what's the difference when we use that argument one day, and the other day we use another argument?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419153335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419153336	It is clear that here there is a concrete proposal for negotiation on the DSA, where there is also a concrete proposal on age verification, which we have actually been able to support. And should it succeed in landing there, we have got the best solution in this context, because a broader international solution is a stronger solution. This does not alter the fact that when we begin to read in the sun and moon and stars and perhaps more concretely, because we are following the negotiations closely, that it may not land there, then we must start to examine what we have at national level. I do not think this will be the best solution, but something needs to be done, and that is why I think it is wise that we should gather together here. So concretely we are just so far now with the DSA, and this is something that is concretely on the table, so I think it makes sense that we see what it is like and then, as I also say, at the same time prepare ourselves nationally. And that work is under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419153433	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419153435	There is no doubt that we are very much in favour of the DSA being put in place and that we are not making national legislation just for the sake of appearances. We need to get the DSA in place, and then we'll have to assess whether that's good enough. But why does the Minister have time to wait for this, why is patience shown in this area when it did not do so at L 146?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419153452	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419153455	I don't think I can answer that much differently from what I've already done. There is a very concrete proposal for negotiation here, where there is also a question of age verification on the table, and we support that. We have supported the Germans in this, and we are working for it, but that is why it is possible to improve on the fact that it does not end up like this, and according to the reporting that I am getting, that is what it looks like, and that is why I think it is wise to prepare ourselves here too to be able to make national efforts, and the preparatory work is in progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419153529	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. And that is how we begin the rapporteur's line, where the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. And that's Mrs. Birgitte Wind. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419153546	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. With the motion for a resolution here, we must deal with a matter which is of great concern to the Social Democrats. Indeed, we agree with SF that we must protect children from the harmful content that exists on digital platforms. We live in a digital age where more communities and social relations are moved onto the digital platforms, and as parents it is actually becoming harder and harder for us to control and know what our children are exposed to and exposed to when they look into the digital and social media platforms. With very few clicks they open up a world that they do not have the ability to understand and see through, and unfortunately they also meet a world that is not always going to make them feel good. Technological development has in many ways changed our world and our society, both for the better and for the worse at one and the same time, but we must not forget that the digital platforms and social media are de facto designed and developed by and for adults and not for children. In February, the police went public with a warning about a new trend among children. The police have had a number of cases where children down to the age of 6 share sexual videos of themselves on social media such as YouTube, Instagram and TikTok. The trend is extremely worrying; several experts point out that children in an attempt to imitate what they see and experience on the digital platforms can have major consequences for them. This makes them extremely vulnerable victims of sextortion, where foreign adults blackmail them to produce more similar videos. But children are also exposed to a distorted picture of sex, body, and sexuality at an premature age. Parents, of course, have a responsibility and we can take many important steps with digital education. However, the tech giants and social media cannot deny a responsibility to give better priority to the protection of children on their platforms. This is a responsibility which we must not, of course, be politically supplanted either. That is why I am really happy to read the two major inter-ministerial initiatives launched by the government back in August, and with the two initiatives we are sharpening the demands of both the tech giants and the social media. We place greater responsibility on them for their platforms and we subject them to greater democratic control. And in both cases there is a clear aim for better digital protection for children. We have among other things. proposed to put forward legislative proposals to tighten up the requirements for the removal of illegal content, but in addition, we have also proposed to strengthen efforts to combat digital abuse, tightened requirements for marketing aimed at children and young people, strengthened focus on police action with a digital police patrol, and we have proposed a labelling scheme for digital content targeted children and young people on social media • just to mention some of the proposals that I know, of course, we all know. However, we do not believe we are in the right direction, because technological developments are continuing to roar out there, and it is therefore important for me and the Social Democrats that we keep our heads cold and our hearts warm. In Denmark we can do a great deal, but we must also recognise that the digital platforms do not know national borders, as the Minister also said. In the European Union, current discussions are taking place that are linked to the responsibilities of the tech giants and social media, and I welcome the government's position in the current negotiations of the Digital Services Act, which are working to ensure that the tech giants can take targeted measures to protect children's rights, but also in relation to the need for parental tools and other tools aimed at helping minors signal abuse or get help and support. We also know that negotiations are currently under way on the revision of the eIDAS regulation, which regulates digital identities in the European Union. The proposal envisages that all Member States should issue digital ID wallets, in which it is again proposed that very large online platforms should be required to accept the European ID wallets. The social media and platforms operate across national borders, which is why I and the Social Democrats also support the government's commitment and position in the negotiations within the European Union. And as the Minister so well said: we do not yet know how they end up, but they must of course keep their noses in the tracks and see what happens. Social media are not designed for children; it is not a playground. Children must be allowed to be children and develop in a secure environment. It is the responsibility of our adults to secure them. It is a political responsibility, it is a parental responsibility, and it is also a responsibility of the social media. We support the many initiatives launched by several ministers, including, of course, the Minister for Business and Industry, and I trust the process that is under way. We need to get our noses on the track, we need to let the spotlights shine brightly on what is happening, both nationally and internationally. On the basis of what I have said here, the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution, but I would urge that we together should be able to produce a report that points forward and ensures that we keep our noses in the tracks and spotlights firmly focused on the obligations of the tech giants to protect children. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154043	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154051	I would like to ask the rapporteur if she does not think it is a little strange that we have age limits for alcohol, tattoos and movies, but when it comes to the big Internet games, apps, social media; where children go, they can be exposed to anything. We've known for a long time. Does the rapporteur not think that it is soon necessary for us to get some regulation going in this area? How long will the rapporteur wait for us to have regulation? After all, we do not know how long it will take for the DSA to be completed. We know from experience that it takes a little while for things to come from the European Union. Will the rapporteur be satisfied with this, or does the rapporteur actually think that we should make legislation in the Danish context?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154146	I fully agree that it is creepy what children can meet on the Internet and that we have limits on everything else. We also have age limits on movies that children go to the cinema and watch and therefore it is also contradictory that we have the big internet that can just buzz off there. I believe that for many years we have had the impression that what was going on online was not a real world, but we know that today it is, and we know that it affects children what they see. To return to what the Minister said, we must see what is happening in the European Union, but of course we must do everything in our power to protect children as best we can. Whether this alone will be a Danish legislation will have to be demonstrated by time, but so far we have to see what is happening in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154224	Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154225	If the rapporteur now recognises that this is such a challenge, then I do not understand that we are no longer today. It is two years since we put forward the first proposal. That is why I am simply concerned on behalf of the children, because we push them into the digital world every day without the protection that I really think they are entitled to. Does the rapporteur think, for example, that it is okay that at Roblox, a game that is particularly used by 8-10-12 year-olds, you can meet user-made games where there are sex orgies and people in bondage equipment and everything else? Does the rapporteur think that this is something that a ten-year-old child should meet? And what will the rapporteur do when the rapporteur will not vote in favour of this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154317	Of course it is not all right, and I also hope that my rapporteur's speech showed that we need to protect children and that they are meeting things today, they are not supposed to see things as simple as that, and we must, of course, put an end to that, which is why it is also important that we do the right thing. The motion for a resolution here points in the direction of taking responsibility, and so must we, but we must also wait and see what is happening in the European Union, because the forces are only stronger, the engine only becomes stronger if we can join forces with the rest of the European Union and form a common front against the tech giants. These are some big giants we're up against, which are completely unhappy in their approach to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154356	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154412	I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. This is an important debate and we owe it to children and young people to have a high level of consumer protection and that children and young people can feel safe when they move around on social media. Today, almost half of all Danish children between 9 and 14 are on the Chinese platform TikTok, and we know that many children and young people spend a lot of time on social media and gambling platforms. That is why we need a plan that protects children and young people, not only while using the Internet, but also a plan for how children and young people feel less pressured to spend so much time on social media. That is why we reached an agreement last year on the digital education of children and young people in which the Left is involved. With the agreement, we are undertaking a national effort for digital education, and one of the tracks is a digital traffic club for children and young people. The digital traffic club is for me to see a very good approach to teaching children how to commit themselves on social media. With the agreement, we have set aside 52.5 million. kr. for the education and training of both children and adults to support a healthy digital culture. With the agreement on digital education, we are not determined on a specific solution, but leave it up to the individual educational institution what method they want to use, and this is where I think there is a problem with the resolution, namely that there is only one specific solution, namely an age verification, which will only apply to 13-year-olds and upward. If we look at the American legislation in this area called the Kids Act, there are many different ways of protecting children on social media, for example. using filters called safety by design and privacy by design, and this does not include age verification. Within the EU there is a recommendation from the European Parliament and the EU Council, and although the recommendation is not legally binding, the recommendation constitutes a valuable source of knowledge. Examples of the protection of minors on social media include a quality mark for the social platforms that are being seriously worked on with a code of conduct. Another proposal is that potentially harmful content be removed through filter systems, or that we in the European Union receive symbols or warnings showing age categories for social media as we know it from movies. In addition, targeted efforts are recommended in relation to the training of parents and teachers and more education in schools. That is exactly what we have started with the agreement on the digital education of children and young people, of which the Socialist People's Party is also a part. Although I share the intention that we should protect children and young people from harmful content, the problem of age verification is that it can open up identity theft and that children and young people will lie about their age, and then we are somewhere on the same level, and while I am standing here, we all know that soon the DSA will come. The Minister has mentioned it, and the Minister also knows how important we in the Left think it is and how much weight it has and what a huge mandate we have ended up giving the Minister, and I would therefore like to say that we should wait and see what comes in relation to it quite frankly. And when you say wait, you think that wait is a long time, but no, it's gonna be finished just before the summer break. So I stand here and see that we have challenges and that we also have to do something about them, and we will also take it seriously, but let us just wait until the summer break. Because, as we have already said, the platforms do not know national borders. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154739	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154746	One of the major problems on the Internet for children is that there are too easy games for people with non-real intentions who want to groom children who want to start a sexual relationship with children and use their games, their apps to manipulate them where you get them to start a relationship with an adult. It's a huge problem. During corona we saw that the number of digital violations just increased enormously. Age confirmation or age verification is in fact one of the means to keep adults out of child platforms. How will the Left ensure with filters that adults are kept out of children's forums where they have nothing to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154842	Now it is quite impressive what can be done today with filters. But the problem with this resolution is that SF only sees age verification as the way forward, that's it. To create a working group which has already been said in advance what the conclusion should be is not serious. In addition, if I am to be a little naughty, I can start to ask where the funding for that is. I have not even mentioned this, because it has not been mentioned here either. This is an important problem, and I hope you can also hear that we are actually taking this problem seriously, because we are. We are just not sure that it should only be age verification if I can say otherwise, i.e. that this is the way we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154925	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419154927	Now it is actually the case that we have put forward a proposal in the past which was somewhat broader than this proposal. This could not be the case either, because too many elements were packed into one digital child protection law. Now I have actually pulled out two elements so that I could get people to relate to them and perhaps create support for us to do something about the children. I have not heard that the Left has been particularly involved in this debate. The Left always has a hundred seventeen excuses for not moving on. Then there's just what you don't like, and then there's just what you don't like, but what is it that the Left itself wants to point out that solves this challenge? I haven't seen any better solutions than this. The experts I speak to say that age verification does not solve everything, but that it is the best tool we have at the moment to help our children. And then we have to do other and broader things, which are also contained in the KIDS Act; that was also part of the latest proposal. So what exactly is the Left going to do to protect the children? I just don't hear that. I hear a lot of excuses for not moving forward with a concrete proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419155032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419155034	I can read the speech again, but I don't think we have time for that. Frankly, in about a month's time, the DSA will be in place, and then we will know what is there; then we will know what we can do throughout the large European Union. And that's the way we see we should go not just us in tiny Denmark. We simply need to get to the DSA and then go that way, and there we are really positive, because of course we have to do something about this problem. And I actually hope that we can land it here in a report if otherwise SF is willing to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419155104	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419155115	Thank you. First of all, I would actually like to start by really thanking Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt very much for bringing forward the motion for a resolution. I think this is a very, very important area, and this is also going to be a continuation, and I really do not think it is a major plan from the SF, because SF has gone into this and Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has gone into this for a very long time, that we are actually discussing this with social media, digital platforms and their responsibilities in many different parts, both in the Folketing, in many different ministries and in the European Union. We had a draft law a short time ago on social media, which has been at first reading and in which we are in the process of having a hearing, I think next week, in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, and in this context we have also asked that negotiations in this area actually be convened by the Minister. In fact, I see this as a good opportunity for us to have these things included in this proposal in the negotiations. I don't know if I'm the only one who can sometimes lose track of where these things are going on. It seems that there is talk both in the Ministry of Justice, in the Ministry of Culture, in the European Union and in the Ministry of Business and Industry, and that is very good, because it means that many people want to do something about it. But it might also be a good idea to try to bring it into the meetings that I expect there very soon is a call from the Minister for Business. I look very positively at the proposal, and I am, in fact, in agreement with the reflections of others on how to make it fit in with what is being done in the European Union. I do not understand the reason for the Social Democracy here at all for waiting for the DSA, because for the second bill that came from the government itself, one should not wait for the DSA. I think it seems a little double and a little weird. But whatever it is, it is precisely one of the things we have asked for to be discussed with the Minister in connection with the bill put forward by the Minister in this Chamber, and I very much hope that we will be able to uncover some of these things together with the SF. I also have questions about this age-verification thing. I have not worked quite as hard on this as Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt has for many years, so I have some concerns about how to do it here in a way that does not collect a whole lot of data that lies and that can be misused by the major platforms in this way. I am sure that this has been thought about by the authors, but it is certainly such things that I would like to dig a little more into, and I would like to see that we could bring along here in a very good way, including the fact that we are looking at a list of what is really harmful content, when we are sitting with the other bill, we are sitting exactly looking at a list of what is illegal content, what is going under it and then looking at the two: what should be in accordance and whether there are any places where it should go beyond. So I am very positive about the motion for a resolution, but extra very positive about whether we cannot bring it here and actually get it into a single package, which it is promised will be called for meetings on, I think in the next few weeks I will now look over to the Minister because otherwise it will be very, very difficult for him to reach it before the summer break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419155508	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Rosa Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419155521	Thank you. I think everyone wants better protection for our children online. After all, it would be nice if we were all better protected online. It is not the case that digital violations, for example. It is only something that happens among young people. Digital bullying is also not something that happens only among children. I think that just puts a thick line under the fact that we have to do something in this area. I fully agree with the proposers that we do not have to wait for the rest of the European Union. I can see that, because these are cross-border companies, it is smart that the regulatory framework is common. I just don't see why it should be an excuse for us not to take the lead. I think Denmark should do that. I think it is a non-argument that we cannot make demands on the tech giants because there is no common EU regulatory framework. Of course we can make demands on the tech giants. We can decide in this Parliament that we will. That is also why I think it is a little too bad that it is being kicked to the corner with that particular argument. I think it is a good proposal that is here from the SF, and I think it can be read in the comments what the arguments are for, so I would just like to highlight three concerns that we have in the Enhedslisten, which we can discuss, I think, in the committee procedure. The first concern is that social media is also a community for children. It is also a community for children and young people, where you can go and find someone who looks like you, find someone who may be boxing with the same problems you are boxing with across the country. So, even if you live in Copenhagen, social media can do so, that you suddenly make a good friend in Hjørring. So it's just to say that the presence of our children and young people on social media is not just a bad thing. It is also a good thing, and it also helps to create communities. You can find each other across either what you care about or the challenges you face as a child or as a young person. If, for example, you're gonna have to... in doubt about its sexuality or gender identity, the social platforms can be a place to go and find a community. That is the one concern we have. The second concern we have is that of the age limit. I would like to help protect our children from violent images of war, for example. At the same time, I would like to say that the way in which the traditional media cover the abuses that are taking place in Palestine right now is very unmanageable. But there you can actually see pictures directly from Jerusalem, directly from Ramallah via social media. I do not think we should stop people who go to high school, for example, from seeing people who take part in the social debate. This is just an example of how social media can also be used by young people to seek out news, although they are also violent images. But it's just violent things happening around the world. These are also violent things that are happening in Afghanistan and Ukraine. So it's just again to say that age verification can be a good idea, but we really have to discuss where we set the limit. The last concern I have is the same concern that was also raised by the Radical Left, namely the issue of sharing personal information, because I really do not trust the tech giants. They're probably the last I want to get any personal information from myself or from anyone else. That is why I think it is a concern which must also be taken seriously. I can see from the comments on the motion for a resolution that the SF has taken this into account, so it is just to flag that we also have that concern in the Enhedslisten. However, I think it is a non-argument that this proposal is rejected because there is no common EU legislation. We must dare to take the lead in making demands on the tech giants, which is why we in the Enhedslisten really appreciate this initiative from SF and would very much like to be involved in discussing it, for example. where the age limit should be and how we get around these things with children also using social media as a place where they can find communities they can't find in the schoolyard. We think it is important that social media can continue to be, just as we also think it is important that some of the news that is not otherwise covered can be covered on social media. As a young person, that is something that must at least be made available to you. We fully support the intention of the proposal and look forward to the committee reading and would very much like to contribute to the drafting of a report text if that is what the SF decides on. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419160008	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no brief comments, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Mona Juul, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419160022	Thank you for the floor. And thank the proposers for highlighting again this important issue, namely the protection of our children and young people on social media. There are no parents who want to see their children watch hard porn, bloody violence or tips for self-harm on digital media, social media or anywhere at all. Unfortunately, however, more digital platforms also mean more problems. Not everyone is equal, not everyone ensures age-verification, not everyone does enough to protect our children. In fact, it turns out that children down to the age of 6, as previously mentioned in the platform, share videos of themselves with sexual content. It may be healthy and natural to explore your own sexuality, but it is not healthy to allow children to be inspired by available adult films and share content with each other, which is of course prohibited and removed, but which can fall into the wrong hands and can be used for blackmail. Yes, we share the heck of impatience of the proposers. We, as a society, need to support much better, even if, in our opinion, it is primarily the lot of the families, the responsibility of the parents. It is the parents who must set limits, guide and take the hard talk; it is the parents who must limit the children's access to social media. Because whatever we do politically, we will not be able to cover all loopholes. It is simply naive to believe. Unfortunately, this is also a really difficult task to solve. There are already age restrictions on various platforms and there is already massive legislation, for example. with regard to illegal content. When we deal with international platforms, it becomes extra difficult. We can, for example. do not use NemID as a verification outside the country's borders, and a national solution in itself is not really a solution, as I see it. We would very much like to help investigate whether there are other ways we can make sure that children cannot cheat on illegal content on social and digital platforms. Do we have a better solution than asking the platforms to babysit? I hope so. We have a solution where labelling is better than, for example, labelling. In movie movies? I hope so. But I do not know, and I have not managed to come up with a workable solution before today's treatment, even though I have talked to a lot of people about it. So it takes a really important and deep skating to get to the bottom and find the right solution. We may also have to hope that work on the DSA will provide input and solutions for solutions that are at least at EU level and that are based on thorough work. Just as Conservatives do not believe that the government's proposal for the removal of illegal content, that is, L 146, as I mentioned earlier, should come five minutes before the DSA just for the sake of appearances, we do not believe that we should make a premature national solution here either. That's not gonna work. We need to make a durable solution, and we need to make it together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419160302	I think I can hear something calling from one of the seats. Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Mona Juul. Mona Juul Some of the social media are knocking, apparently). That's it. It sounded like such a facebook call at least. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419160329	Yes, thank you for the floor. I guess somebody had to get up. I think I agree with the rapporteur that parents should, of course, take responsibility. And I also find that most parents really want to take responsibility, but feel that they are falling a little short. I also think it should perhaps be supplemented by legislation, by firm demands that protect children. After all, Germany has made a model in which they have just said that some content should simply not be accessible to children, and there are huge fines associated with it. Age verification can be a tool for it. There is no real demand for this, but there is legislation that we can lean on. There are a lot of countries overtaking us right now. So could the German model be an opportunity to look at for the Conservatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419160421	Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419160422	Now I do not know the German model as well as I can hear the rapporteur. However, when we looked at it last in connection with L 146, the German model was very specific in relation to bad language and so on. There were some things we couldn't recycle compared to L 146, and that's one of them. what our hearing should be about. But if we can be inspired by countries that have been through some of these phases, we must finally do so. I just think we're in a situation where, yes, the parents aren't going to be able to solve this alone. I also believe that we need to look at this more hardcore in legislative terms, but there are some things that are difficult and that make this really, really difficult, because how are we going to make sure that you cannot get on a platform? Well, some of us may have also gone out a little early and shown some things we didn't have to show to get in. It is really, really difficult to secure against all loopholes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419160517	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419160518	For example: age verification based on NemID is an effective way to keep adults out of child platforms and to ensure that children only come up with what they need to do. That technology is, of course, available, and I have, in fact, been given an answer that it can be used without the tech giants gathering ours, what can you say, personal data and all of this that we do not want them to do. In fact, the platform called boyfriend.dk has started age verification, so it is not because the technology does not exist. We just have to decide that we think it is a good tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419160556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419160557	And I fully agree with that: NemID is a very good way of getting verification. But that's just not gonna work if it's only national. I simply do not believe that we can make a solution that is a national solution that is good enough. I think we simply have to make a cross-border solution. Otherwise, we will not get rid of what the rapporteur is interested in getting rid of what I fully support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419160618	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419160636	Thank you, President. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to thank you for a fine and well worked-out motion for a resolution which follows on from the previous motion for a resolution on digital education by the SF. It was a pleasure to read it through. If we look around outside the digital world, it is everywhere the manufacturer who is responsible to the consumer. The car salesman must ensure that the buyer of the car is over 18 years of age and has a driving licence. Those who sell a blender should warn against children using it and make sure it is safe. And in many places on the web you have to confirm your age to move on to a particular page, for example. in the case of borrowings. Social media must also confirm their age. In the Danish People's Party we are of the opinion that it is the manufacturer who should make a product with age verification so that it is not easy to make false profiles. The manufacturer is also responsible for the content posted on a medium and the manufacturer should be responsible for who it reaches, i.e. ensure that sufficient information is obtained on each user so that this becomes possible. We follow the area closely in the Danish People's Party, and we are happy to be part of the agreement on digital education of children and young people, which is intended to protect them and inform them. We also support, as the motion for a resolution suggests, setting the work in motion for a model. Whether it is the SF's model or not, we will not be determined yet, but we are at least looking forward to the committee's reading and are generally very positive about the intention of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419160836	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber, so that is why we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419160858	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the debate. Although we may not entirely agree on the means, at least I sense that there is at least recognition of the problem. I guess on behalf of the kids, I'd have wanted us to move a little bit further today. I think that they have waited long enough and I think that the challenges are towering for us in terms of protecting the children online. When we dealt with L 146, that is to say the proposal to remove illegal content from social media, the way had also been long and craving, one can say until we got there, and what I said was, among other things, that I think it is better to have some rules. It may be that the proposal is not perfect, but it is better to have some rules than not having any rules, and that is actually what I think when it comes to digital child protection. Let's get started. Then we can always embroider on it later and do it perfectly. The important thing is that we move forward. I find it strange that we do not take the lead here as a country when it comes to digital child protection. We have always prided ourselves on being a country that takes children's rights seriously, which ensures that they are protected in all possible contexts. We do that in the physical world as the greatest naturalness, but when it comes to the net, protection is quite different. It is non-existent and the rules that we have, after all, are not enforced. One can say that Denmark is one of the most digitised societies, but we are therefore a bit a developing country when it comes to protecting children online, and there are other countries which in these years are moving completely away from us and introducing requirements for digital child protection, while we hesitate and give the tech giants free access to the children's room without any form of regulation. This is among other things. Germany, it is England, it is the United States that has regulated, but in Denmark we are hopelessly behind, except when it comes to some advertising in relation to children. This may also be important enough, but I miss the fact that, like parents, we are supporting their children's work in dressing up for the Internet with more robust legislation. And I cannot help thinking that when it comes to adults, there will be huge debate when adult people have shared images that are digitally offensive; then we take action because we have to do something. But the children do not have a voice, so they are not really heard, and it does not call in the same way the urge to regulate. It came out in Berlingske on 17 February that for example. in the game called "Roblox" it is among other things. a game played by my 10-year-old daughter................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And that's because this gaming platform kind of allows you to make your own games, and then some people make that out of it, and it's especially 9-12 year olds who use this platform. This case is just one example, but there are countless examples where children are exposed to content that is not age-related, and I think that development shows that we need to define what content is age-related and which is harmful on these platforms where the children are, and in the games and apps they use. We haven't really taken a position on that yet. I think porn is one of those places where we should talk about when you're old enough to see it. Actually, I don't think you are when you're 10 years old. But we have yet to discuss when this is appropriate. They have taken stock of that in Germany; there it is, for example. content that lies in special fora for adults and where providers of these platforms have a special obligation to ensure that this is not where children come in. I think we have to note that good protection for children does not come naturally, and the platforms do not take responsibility in their business models for the presence of children. They cover themselves up that the product is not for children. But yes, when there are a lot of children on the ground, as there are on social media, where, of course, children also have the positive opportunity to find equal communities, as Mrs Rosa Lund mentions, they are there. I also believe that we should have a responsibility to take measures to ensure that they can move safely. It is not enough to say that our products are not for children and then close your eyes when you know that they are there de facto. This does not happen on its own. I said this just before. So it requires legislation and firm demands, just as we have put forward in the proposal to remove illegal content, which we are dealing with in the Folketing. It is, of course, good that our children have opportunities to meet online and to be part of communities in a different way from that of my generation. But we are also in a situation where technological opportunities have overtaken the legislation and framework that we have set as politicians. It is therefore high time that we upgraded the protection of our children in their online lives with themselves and each other. Children are really vulnerable and they are exposed to manipulation very easily due to lack of experience and development. That is why it is also an argument for strengthening digital child protection. Unfortunately, that is not going to be a majority for this proposal today. For those who have asked about age verification up here from the platform, I can tell you that this is how you can actually do it already. You can do it with NemID and also without giving the tech giants the opportunity, like collecting the personal data and information that we do not want to give everyone together, but where it only controls age. In this way you can keep adults out of children's forums, which we may need very much, all the time that there is a great deal of grooming and insulting behavior out there in relation to children. But it also ensures that children can only access the content they need. I know that the platform called boyfriend.dk has actually started it. They had the challenge that very young boys it's a meeting place for men also found themselves on these platforms. I didn't mean to. Those were very young boys... children, I'd say. So some kind of age verification has been started to ensure that they are not there and come into contact with adult men and risk being exploited by them. The government's argument not to vote in favour of the last motion for a resolution was that in 2020 there were two working groups to be allowed to report. Those working groups reported in the summer of 2021, but this has not yet led to concrete discussions on the elements of the SF's motion for a resolution, on which a majority adopted a report. Among other things, there were: So age confirmation and a definition of harmful content. Safety by design was also one of the elements. It was a ban on behavior-modified elements, which are the ones that make children spend more time and money on their games and apps; it was also part of it. So we certainly think that there is still much to be done in terms of protecting children online. I hope that we will soon see the result of the DSA, because that is clearly what determines the government's efforts and the speed at which we get digital child protection in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419161750	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419161829	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419161837	Thank you. First of all, I would also like to thank colleagues from the SF and the Radical Left for putting forward the two proposals that we are discussing together here. Unfortunately, we have to say that discrimination is not a new issue, and it is not as such new resolutions that we are discussing today. Last time we were gathered on exactly what we are also discussing again today, Trine Bramsen, who is now my ministerial colleague, indicated that the Social Democrats supported the proposed proposal because we thought there was a need for new measures to curb discrimination in nightlife. That is why it goes without saying that today I agree with the intention and purpose of the resolution. Discrimination in nightlife must and must not take place and, of course, we must do what we can to prevent it. However, as I said, this is not a new issue, and it is also something that is incredibly difficult to overcome, and that is why we must ensure that the legislation we adopt is also one that works well and works effectively. We must ensure support so that the intention also becomes the reality of both the restaurateurs and, of course, the victims of discrimination. That is why I am also pleased to be able to say that the government has already planned that we should have a change in the catering law in the next parliamentary assembly, because we must have an eye on the consequences of the change in the law. This must not prejudice the legal certainty of the restaurant operators. A refusal or a refusal to grant a licence may have very serious consequences for a restaurateur or a small company. That is why it is important that we make a well-worked proposal which will have the greatest effect, that it hits the right people and that there is no doubt about the decision, both for the sake of the restaurateurs and for the sake of the victims of discrimination. The motion for a resolution here contains good elements which I and the government can support, but I would also like to say that we do not believe that it would be proportionate to be able to withdraw or withdraw an alcohol authorisation solely on the basis of a decision of the Equal Treatment Board. This will have major consequences, and there is a risk that the legal certainty of the restaurateur will be compromised. That is why we in the government cannot support the motions for resolutions as they stand here, but I hope that both the SF and the Radicals will take the good intentions forward in the joint work we are going to have on a future legislative amendment in the autumn. I can tell you, moreover, because it is also part of the resolution here that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration will also comply with the proposal to increase the level of compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162144	Thank you for that, and there are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162148	I am a little surprised that the government is saying that they cannot support the idea that, as in the case of an equal treatment board, we should have the opportunity to withdraw an authorisation for alcohol. What does the Minister think we can do instead? If you want to change the catering law so that it becomes as effective as possible, that is the words the minister had... what will it really mean? 'Cause it sounds like the minister's been thinking about what it could be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162223-2	Thank you for that question. I think that this is a rather far-reaching step, and that is why I say it in the way I do. In other words, you can deny an alcohol licence, but then it has to be done in the courts, and then it is because the person who has the authorization has committed a gross or repeated violation of the conditions for having an alcohol licence. So I think it is a very far-reaching element, and that is why it is not one that we intend to continue working on. Having said that, I think that there are good intentions in the proposal here, and I think that we should look through a thorough preparatory work at how much of what we can bring forward in a change to the catering law. I think, for example, that it might be an idea for the municipalities to attach importance to the decisions of the board here when granting or renewing alcohol authorisations. It is not the same as the fact that we can deprive them of them on the basis of the mention, but it could be the kind of thing we could work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162333	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162334	Thank you. At least we had it drilled out. Well, the joyful thing is that something is finally happening. Because I don't think it should be the case that young people should be left on the platform every weekend when their friends go downtown and party. However, I am, of course, a little bit sorry that the government does not just give its unconditional support to the proposals that lie here. And I understand that Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, who was also out in favour of taking the money from the restaurateurs, spoke at his own expense, even though it was last October.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162414	Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162414-2	Now I have not just seen what my colleague Lars Aslan Rasmussen has said. However, it is possible, as I say, for the courts to disclaim an authorisation if there is a basis for doing so. What I am reacting to is whether or not, on the basis of a decision of the Equal Opportunities Board, the grant can be withdrawn. This is going to be very violent, and it will be very intrusive to, for example. a small restaurateur who then suddenly loses the basis for running the business. But that does not change the fact that it might be a good idea to say that the municipalities can give weight to these decisions when it comes to renewing the appropriations or allocating new ones. I thought that was something we could work on. Because it gives some of the same without hampering legal certainty for the little restaurateur more than we might want to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162501	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162504	Thank you. I am surprised that the Minister for Industry says that this is a far-reaching proposal. Because I thought immediately that it is not certain that it will make a difference. Well, the most far-reaching thing would be to say that if you own a nightclub or a restaurant where you discriminate, we close it. But that is not what the SF and Radicals are proposing here. You are actually proposing something that I think is quite quiet and quite sensible: that we in Denmark will of course not tolerate discrimination on the basis of one's skin colour, that you cannot be allowed to go out and party with your friends, as Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt says, if you have a different skin colour than the majority of us in here. So, I do not think this is going far, and I am surprised that the Minister for Industry says that discrimination should not take place in Denmark. Here there is a very specific proposal on how we can take a break with it, and the government will not support it anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162559	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162601	That's how we can look at it differently. At any rate, I would like to say that I agree with the rapporteur that we must stop discrimination in nightlife and that we must use the tools that we believe to be proportionate and which will have an effect. And when I believe that the withdrawal of the authorisation on the basis of a decision by the Equal Opportunities Board here and now is not proportional, it is because it is basically a bar or restaurant's basis of existence that can disappear on the basis of one decision. What I say I think can make sense when it comes to renewing the appropriations is that the municipalities can base these decisions on them, and that is the case today that you may lose your funding, but then it is because the courts have looked at the matter and have judged that there have been repeated and serious infringements which, like those which justify such violent intervention. I think it is very far-reaching, but of course we can have a different assessment of that. But that is the basic basis of existence for some of the small restaurants and bars that we also like to create life in our nightlife. They just have to do it in a good and positive way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162714	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162715	It's just that the Social Democrats didn't always think this was going far. In fact, in the past, the Social Democrats have supported this proposal, which is a re-submission of an earlier resolution, and in addition to the fact that the Socialists are now sitting in the government offices, they did not do so the first time the proposal was put forward, but I do not actually see what should have happened, which means that suddenly you do not think this is a good tool and an important proposal. It is not the case that discrimination has diminished in the Danish nightlife. So that can't be the argument. So I am very interested to hear why it is that the Social Democrats almost overnight or you might say above the elections no longer support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162759	But it is, of course, a question of continuing to support the work of resisting discrimination in nightlife. There, the Social Democrats think exactly the same thing that we thought before we came into government. What is the difference is what tools it is that we assess have a proportional and effective effect on it. I think it might be nice to say to a bar: you know what, you cannot get your grant back because you have too many decisions from the Equal Opportunities Board, which goes against, and the municipality must take that as its basis. I think this is proportional and I think it will actually have an effective effect. However, I believe that it would be too violent to go in and be able to withdraw an appropriation on the basis of a single decision by the Equal Opportunities Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162840	Then it's Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162841	I am a little divided here, because I am, of course, glad that the government meets us in part, and at the same time I have some doubts as to what exactly is the position of the Social Democratic Party. Because several parts of the resolution have been welcomed in the past, and now we are in favour of some of it, and Bjørn Brandenburg has also said at the same time that it is believed that this can be done in the action plan against racism. So I'm a little confused. However, the Minister was made clear that what one would like to look at is when one seeks and then gets the alcohol authorisation renewed. It can be said that this is not so topical when you are seeking, so my question is why you are not willing to be able to deny it as well. For it is clear that renewing can somehow change the incentives for the restaurants, but why not also take the second step in being able to deny it. And then I would just like to point out that this is not automatic in the proposals we have put forward, that it is one decision and then the alcohol allocation falls, but repeated examples of discrimination could point out that there is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419162950	I am pleased that my good colleague Bjørn Brandenborg has also mentioned the action plan against racism, because it is also one of the tools that can be used to address the same issue. But it should not take us away from this context and from this debate to look at the issue of appropriations and look at some of the points raised in the motion for a resolution, including from the Radical Left here. That is just what I am saying, that is to say, the government wants to be involved in this and we want to do a preparatory work that we can discuss so that we can amend the catering law in the autumn. I think it is obvious that we can look at whether we can continue to get our funding if we have repeatedly had decisions against ourselves in the Equal Opportunities Board. I think that is quite fair, but from there and then to be able to lose your grant during the grant period, because you have been given the right now it may be that more decisions are taken by the Equal Treatment Board, I think that is quite far-reaching. One has the opportunity today, and then it is the courts that go in and decide it because, because of serious and repeated cases, one has not lived up to the law, but then it is also very far-reaching, and that possibility exists today. I do not think this is the right way to go, but we will have to discuss this with each other when we sit and look at the specific legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163106	Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163108	Thank you. I shall look forward to discussing this, because I find it difficult to understand why it is felt that we should not be able to continue to discriminate if we have reached the point where we should have renewed our alcohol quota, but if we have not reached that point, we must continue to discriminate, that is to say if we have a really bad track record, where there are repeated examples, then we cannot go in actively and withdraw the allocation. And then I just want to point out that it is really, really, really difficult today to prove that there has been discrimination, because everything else is just as rare to say that you cannot get in because of your skin color, and therefore will provide many other reasons. So that is why we have put forward these proposals, in other words in order to put the emphasis on decisions in the Equal Opportunities Board.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163148	But I also think it is obvious that the Equal Treatment Board can fill more. As I understand the motion for a resolution that has been tabled here, perhaps not both, but one of them, a single decision by the Equal Opportunities Board could actually lose its funding, and I just think that was not proportional. But I think it is okay that we can base those decisions on assessing exactly the track record of a dispensing place before it has to renew its authorisation. Whether that is enough, we have to discuss with each other, because that is an indication from us as a government that we are willing to look at that in order to oppose discrimination in nightlife, because it is our political desire to fight against that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163230	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no more brief comments. Then we start with the rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Orla Sea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163244	Thank you for that, President. These are two resolutions with the same theme and the same intentions. On the socialist side, we agree that we should actively oppose discrimination. Historically, we have taken the lead when it comes to working for equal treatment of people because we are human beings. The common denominator is human right and with a focus on it. Social democracy worked hard to push South Africa to abandon apartheid policy. We did it. We are no less ambitious when it comes to the equal treatment of people within our own borders. People are unique and should be treated equally. We have sympathy for the proposals and, in connection with the work that the Minister indicated here from the platform that the government has initiated, we will try to find a common road map to back up the intentions of the motions for resolutions and get them into the legislative proposal that the government is making. However, we should acknowledge in this work that there may be a clash with other principles of our legislation, for example. legal certainty, which has already been mentioned. Current legislation presupposes that there has been a judgment for discrimination in the operation of a restaurant if the authorisation is to be refused. The question is, should you take the livelihood from people for less than a judgment? Discrimination unfortunately has many forms of presentation and also many that cannot be proved. There are periodic statements of discrimination in e.g. recruitment proceedings on account of the name alone. However, it is difficult to prove that this is the practice of recruitment. It can be concealed in a requirement of qualifications. When it comes to nightlife, we want it to be carried out in a way that is to the satisfaction of our customers or guests. We do not want violence or clashes in nightlife, and we want people to be judged on the basis that they are people and not on the external characteristics. However, an experienced doorman must be able to prevent violence and trouble from arising by being able to read and know his audience, and this must be based on behaviour and not external differences and generalisations. We simply want these examples to be taken into account in the clarification that the Committee on Legal Affairs has to make, in order to find, if possible, a common denominator for better action against discrimination. Personally, I take the view that if, through education and through our dealings with each other, we promote the ideas of equality and equal treatment, we are putting the seeds of a society in which we treat each other as human beings and do not discriminate. Social democracy is a positive element in the forthcoming work on the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163603	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163607	Thank you. I feel like reading from the last time we dealt with this proposal. This is a rebirth. It was Mrs Trine Bramsen who was the rapporteur for the Socialists. She said, "Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, We can ensure some basic rules that protect against discrimination and we can do much more to change the culture on which discrimination is based. And that is what this resolution does, we believe, both with the higher fines and also with the link between the Equal Opportunities Board and the appropriations. Thus, the restaurateurs get more at stake and are therefore, hopefully, motivated to treat their guests more equally. And with those words, I must say that we can support the proposal. Was it a mistake for the Socialists to vote in favour of this proposal last time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163658	No, I don't think so. But I also believe that we need to recognise that when you sit in government, you have a broader responsibility than when you alone help to table a motion for a resolution. Then you have a responsibility to ensure that the whole of the legislation is a safeguard against the business community that has to live and the life that has to be lived. But that does not mean that we have deviated from the principles that we would like society to conform to, namely that we will treat people in the same way as human beings. There should be no doubt about that. However, we have to accept that a government must have a broader foundation during its intervention when it is a government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163747	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163747-2	Well there is nowhere in the SF's proposal that one should say that one can put emphasis on it. I think that is quite another thing. I just think that we need to have a completely different preparedness and protection against young people being shut out of the nightlife just because they have the wrong skin color. I simply do not think that is right. And I find it very, very difficult to understand that the Socialists have now changed course and, as it sounds, take a little more account of the restaurateurs than of the many, many young people who every weekend have to see themselves left on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163826	But there is no question that the Social Democrats have changed their attitude to this issue. We still find discrimination unacceptable. We still think that we should fight discrimination. We still think that we should treat people equally to their rights as human beings. There is a question of how fast we can go. It is a question of how many other legal principles we need to take care of, so that we find the right cut in terms of ensuring the treatment we want from young people, including young people in the nightlife.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163905	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163906	Thank you. It is a little crazy to hear the Socialists say that one has not changed one's mind, but one just does not want to act. So, in 2016-17, this proposal was supported, and now you only want to say that you are not in favour of discrimination. So far, so good. Actually, I don't think any people do. Where the difference is, of course, is whether you are willing to act on it. I mean, are you actually going to take action on that? And there is this proposal, after all, an excellent example of action. So the question to the Socialist rapporteur is: if this is not the solution to stopping discrimination, then what?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419163953	Indeed, the proposal is what I have argued for, that is to say, to wait for the government to come up with its proposal to amend the catering law and to adapt it so as to counteract discrimination in the nightlife with the legislation that lies there and to receive the invitation given by the Minister from this platform to go into that work and to help ensure that we have a better protection against discrimination than we have today. I understand the impatience, but I also understand that there is a government that must have all the Cabals go up before one is able to make the legislation that is being demanded in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164031	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164033	Well, we'd be happy to accept that invitation in the Enhedslisten. I don't think that's a secret either. I just think that now that there is a good proposal on the table or in the Chamber, whether you want to support it or not, it will be part of the work that needs to be done in the Ministry of Industry. I think it is perfectly natural that government demands are made and that the government backs the things that the government agrees with. So that's just what I don't understand. If you agree with this, why not just get it adopted so that it can be a part of that work? That's one thing. The second point is that the rapporteur mentions the issue of legal certainty. I would just like to ask: what about legal certainty for the people who are rejected weekend after weekend at bars, restaurants and nightclubs?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164115	Well, I just have to make it clear that we are prepared to act. That is what the Minister is saying here today, that is to say, that work has been started to change the catering legislation so that it also ensures better protection against discrimination. So it is not a question of us not wanting to act. We just have one consideration that says that this is not only about discrimination; it is also about getting the right cut in relation to the legal certainty that must naturally be in a society. In fact, I also believe that Mrs Rosa Lund will accept that legal certainty also matters for a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164155	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164211	Thank you for that, President. I am giving this speech on behalf of the Left and also of the New Citizen, who unfortunately cannot take part in the debate here today. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution, the Socialist People's Party and the Radical Left, once again for bringing up this important issue. Let me make it clear that the Left is against any form of discrimination, regardless of who it is directed against, whether it is due to origin, religion, colour, disability, gender, etc. And the Left is against any form of discrimination, whether it takes place in the nightlife, at school, at the workplace or at the sports club. The two proposals we are discussing here today are aimed solely at night life, and there is no doubt that discrimination is taking place here, but unfortunately discrimination also shows its ugly face for the rest of the day, precisely at school, at work, in leisure and so on. That is why we can question whether it is right to legislate only on discrimination in the very nightlife. We already have legislation today, fortunately, which prevents or should prevent discrimination, including the part that takes place in the nightlife. This applies to the law on discrimination, to the law on ethnic equality, to Article 81 of the Criminal Code, not to mention the Convention on Human Rights. Unfortunately, there is much more reason to focus on how the legislation is being applied in practice, or rather why it is not being used. Why are there so few reports to the police in those cases of nightlife where there are witnesses who witness discrimination? There is a great need here for an information campaign and more active action on the part of the police, as well as on the part of the citizens who are witnessing discrimination. The authors consider that a decision of the Equal Treatment Board should be given priority, where appropriate in requests for appropriations and extensions. That proposal seems to the Left to be far-reaching and we are sceptical about it. Not only is the restaurant owner at risk of a fine it is one thing but the restaurant operator also risks his entire livelihood in the form of a withdrawal of the licence. And I suppose it all happens on the basis of a written examination by the Equal Treatment Board without witnesses, without legal judges or other usual guarantees of legal certainty. In our view, this is contrary to the principle of proportionality and is contrary to legal certainty. The Left understands from the government that before long there will be a joint action on discrimination • a round-the-clock, 24-hour and life-related issue. And we agree with that approach. We need a holistic approach to discrimination. We want to take a positive view of this, but we cannot support any particular legislation for nightlife on top of the legislation we have today, which is why we cannot support the two motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164541	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164545	As the rapporteur said, discrimination is illegal, but the question is how to enforce the legislation that we actually have, and this resolution is an example of how to do so. How do we get the restaurateurs to acknowledge that you are not allowed to separate your guests from the color of your skin? One of the things you do is that you do it. By hitting them on the wallet, this is done by compensating the victims and perhaps by taking the money from them. I understand that the Left thinks that is far-reaching, but what about the people who are rejected? Where is legal certainty for them, and what will the Left do?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164632-2	As I said, it is illegal to discriminate, and that is why I would like a lot more people to report it to the police every time they saw it in practice. That is the way we can enforce the law, namely that the police are told about this and then can intervene in the cases and thus focus on this. If that happens, I'm sure the restaurateurs will also get more focus on it. So that is immediately the path we can take here. So it's very disproportionately if a restaurateur is risking his entire livelihood because of this aspect. That is why we look forward to the action announced by the government to take a holistic approach for 24 hours a day, because it is not enough just to focus nightlife. Unfortunately, there is also a lot of discrimination in the workplace and elsewhere, so it is not enough just to focus on nightlife.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164726	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164726-2	It's like documented several times that this is happening. When matters are not reported, I think it has something to do with the fact that many of these minority young people have learned quietly that this is the way the reality is for them, and they think: well, then I have to learn to live with it. At least that's what they say. But let us say that we could follow the trails of the Left and create an enlightenment image, and then there were more who reported. So when the report has been investigated by the police, what then? How, then, do we get the restaurateurs to enforce the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164806	If the police can prove that there has been discrimination, then the restaurateur has committed something illegal and then gets a fine and is punished for it, and so it must be. This is the way we focus on this and that society will not put up with discrimination. But that requires some action, and I am not only thinking of those who are discriminated against. There are others who are looking at this, and we also need to be prepared to tell the police more when something like this happens. It is, of course, far along the way that our society works, that is to say you report it when you experience something illegal, and we must have made it the norm here, because we will not put up with this discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164849	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164852	I would just like to ask very briefly whether the rapporteur recognises that it would be very difficult to lift a burden of proof in a court case, because it is very rare to know directly that the reason why you are
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164907	Yes, it may be difficult. Now it is sometimes the case that you get to film and stuff with your cell phone, so there are some that are good at that kind of thing. But otherwise it may be difficult to lift a burden of proof, which is why it is fair enough that we are focusing on this, that we have the debate. We welcome that. But it is a far-reaching means of picking out the nightlife and then saying that we are making quite far-reaching measures against those restaurants which are the stumbled vessels. We have to have them corrected in a different way, and we get that by reporting this to the police, and then we get the focus on it. And then we look forward to what the government has in the bag in relation to an overall plan for this, because we need a holistic approach to discrimination.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164952	Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419164953	Yes, but even in cases where it has been admitted, it has proved difficult to get a verdict on this, because once again you do not say: No, there is no room for you because you have the wrong color. It is just said: there is no room for more tonight just of your kind and what then lies in your kind is unclear. But what I would like to ask is: if the rapporteur recognises that it is difficult to get a judgment, does the rapporteur also recognise that if there are cases on a number of occasions before the Equal Opportunities Board, this could indicate that there is actually discrimination in the bars and restaurants in question?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419165026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419165026-2	Yeah, that would indicate. However, if it is difficult to lift the burden of proof for the police, it may also be difficult to lift the burden of proof in the Equal Opportunities Board. In other words, even if it is an administrative procedure, a burden of proof still needs to be lifted before, for example, taking away. a tavern holder an authorisation. So the problem of the burden of proof is no matter what; it does not solve this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419165052	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419165101	Thank you. I think it is very good to see that, at least in the last year's time, a much-needed focus on discrimination has begun. We have updated the legislation on hate crimes, set aside funds to deal with hate crimes by the police, and we have started work on a plan of action against racism. For too many years we have witnessed discrimination against minority citizens in all parts of our society, and that is why it is also time for some measures to be taken from here to put it to good use. Discrimination is evident both in the public and private sectors and is experienced in the nightlife is no exception. Half of all young people with so-called non-Western backgrounds have experienced discrimination in the nightlife half. That's a pretty high number. And I would also like to say honestly that I myself have several times experienced having to step out of the queue to various clubs, because my friends who do not have the same skin color as I do have not been allowed in by the doorman. Sometimes we were met with ridiculous excuses, like they were wearing the wrong shoes, even though you could see others wearing exactly the same kind of shoes in this way we're all a little slaves of the same fashion, but it's strange that a person in white sneakers of the same kind as the ones on whom another person was wearing is rejected. Other times it was wrapped up and said: "You can't come in because you scare other guests away." I think that is very strange arguments. There is no doubt that the way in which people with a different colour of skin than white are spoken of by politicians and the press has been helping to create for decades a scare picture that makes many people have a completely wrong experience of Danish minority citizens and that this misconception leads to discrimination. On Thursday, the Minister of Justice will have to consult, which I have called for, so that we can get an explanation of how it can be that brown Danes have 50 per cent. greater risk of being charged with crimes they have not committed than other Danes have. This is a question I have asked the Minister several times in the past, just as I have also asked the Minister for Employment what is going to be done about the fact that women with a scarf experience that they have to send 60%. more applications than women without scarf. It is just to say that discrimination exists in many parts of our society, and it also exists in nightlife. At Easter we have among other things. were able to hear several young Danes with a minority background stand out in the press and tell about how they, like my friends, experience rejection time and time again when they go to town and have a fun night. I don't think that's okay. And that is why we need to take the problem of discrimination very seriously, and I think it is a very good initiative and a good idea to use the alcohol allowance to get the nightlife under control. Because we know that the fact that the risk of losing it to a large extent is also there means that it is actually being checked whether guests, for example. is 18 when they're let in. That is why I believe that we could have exactly the same effect if we also kept track of the fact that there was no discrimination. It's just an example of a requirement we make to clubs, bars and restaurants in the nightlife. It's like you're supposed to be 18 years old. It's being checked, it's being observed. You get a fine if you don't keep it. We could make exactly the same claim on this area. Other initiatives can also be taken which I think would be very good, for example. changes in doorman training, and I very much hope that the Minister of Industry will consider this, so that those who are at the door actually know what is legitimate grounds for rejection and what is not legitimate grounds for rejection. One might also consider setting up a whistleblower scheme for doormen so that they could go somewhere and say: My boss actually demands of me that I reject people of a certain skin color, and I dare not really not, because then I get fired. There are many things we can do. And I think this whole drinking thing is a really good place to start. I do not think it should be an excuse for not being able to adopt it now, for working in other ministries too, and for work to be done in the autumn. In the Enhedslisten we would very much like to come to the Minister for Business with lots of suggestions on what to do, but this, sir. Minister for Industry, then, will be one of them. And that's why we in the Enhedslist think we should adopt this right away. As I read the proposal, it is not a single decision of the Equal Treatment Board to decide whether or not one loses one's licence. That is not how I read the proposal. It's not a either or. I also read the proposal in such a way that one could follow a Norwegian model where one gets the grant withdrawn for a period of time, i.e. if one discriminates, one gets the grant withdrawn for 3 weeks. Then you have just three weeks of reflection to see if you shouldn't have another door team and if you shouldn't have another policy on how to run your nightclub. Then you can get your license back. So it's just to say, before we paint it up to be a question of getting the grant or not, that there are many ways to go. But I think this proposal is a good one. And, as I said before, I could actually come up with many more far-reaching proposals that we could put forward, namely that you would have your club completely closed if you discriminated against. I think that would be a good cash demand to make. But in the Enhedslisten, we are so willing to compromise that we would like to agree to say that it should be the alcohol allocation that is emphasised. We warmly support these proposals in the Enhedslisten, and we look forward to further work, whether it is going to take place in committee or over with the Minister for Industry. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419165658	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419165717	Thank you, President, and thank both the SF and Radicals for making the proposals. Racism in nightlife is unfortunately something that is reality here in Denmark. There are people who are systematically rejected and that is by no means acceptable in a country like Denmark. But it is also a very complex subject. On the one hand, we Conservatives are very positive about the proposals that both the SF and the Radicals make here. Some people have in fact questioned whether they go too far, but I do not really think that this is a far-reaching proposal. Basically, I think they are sensible. And I can say that, for a while, I have been on the budget board in Copenhagen's citizens' representation, and I think that the starting point must be that all the necessary and available information is available when decisions are made on appropriations. Having said that, on the other hand, we also want rules that are as well worked out as possible and as comprehensive as possible. I would also like to say, as the Left, that racism is not just a nightmare, and we are aware that the government is on the way with a whole issue of racism and not just racism in the nightlife. We also note that both HORESTA and Dansk Erhverv have a number of proposals that go further than this. So we are positive about these proposals, but before we get to grips with anything, we would like to see the overall approach that the government is taking. That is why we cannot support the proposals that lie here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419165842	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419165906	Thank you very much. We are now working together on two proposals: one called B 115 and one called B 119. These are proposals from the SF and the Radicals respectively. If we take it first from the SF, it is a proposal that has been made before and, as has also been mentioned before by the Danish People's Party, we cannot immediately see the need to tighten up the legislation in this area further. There is already legislation, and in Denmark we must not discriminate. Our legislation is also geared towards this. And unfair discrimination on the way in through the door of a nightclub or a café is not okay. However, from there, and then to be in favour of forcing this, the SF wants to put the emphasis on the Equal Treatment Board's decisions in cases of discrimination when they deal with applications for alcoholic beverages, there is some way to go, because it can in fact mean that a nightclub or a café, or whatever, will lose its basis of living if they are accused in the way it is mentioned in the proposal. I also think that it sounds a little like a double sentence if an owner of, for example. a nightclub, if there are charges of discrimination, must be punished both by paying compensation to those who have been discriminated against and on top of that may risk losing the alcohol allowance. It is always possible to discuss whether the level of compensation for discrimination is the right one or whether it should be regulated. But overall, it's up to the owner of a nightclub who he or she will let in. And if you experience rejection and think that there is unbiased discrimination, you can complain about it. And, of course, that's the way it has to be. So we already have legislation, complaints and compensation systems today. So in the Danish People's Party we do not see a great need to put more strings on an industry that, by the way, in recent years because of corona has fought hard and perhaps harder than most to survive. Therefore, DF does not support the proposal that comes from SF. When you look at what has come from the Radicals, there are actually some similarities. I take note of the fact that the Radicals seem to want it to be the case that alcohol has to be exceeded even before the case is settled in the courts. That is how I understand the proposal. There you can read that if a case has been dealt with by the police or the Equal Treatment Board, it must cost a company the alcohol allowance. If it is true that it should be the case that one loses one's alcohol licence even before the case is settled in the courts, then we think that there is a legal security problem for the owner of the business concerned. It must be understood that if only a person has contacted the police and has said that he has been discriminated against by being denied access, it must cost alcohol. I ask: is that how it should be understood? Because then I think it is very far-reaching. And if that is how it should be understood, one is tempted to ask: where is legal certainty? As I mentioned earlier, there are already some opportunities for complaint and compensation, which signal that there is no acceptance of unfair discrimination or discrimination in Denmark. However, the fact that the police are dealing with a case of discrimination seems to be relatively groundless to suggest that the whole basis for a company's existence is to be costed. So I think that we are moving on rather thin ice in terms of legal certainty, if that is what I have said here. Therefore, the Danish People's Party cannot support that proposal either. All in all, there is a very good need for initiatives to deal with the bad things that are going on in the nightlife. We are also discussing a similar proposal on Friday that the government has made. Some of this seems to be symbolic legislation, but there are also positive trends in it, but we will come back to that in the discussion of that proposal. So overall, it's the thumb down. I understand very well the good intentions that can be expressed with such proposals, but it must also be able to work in practice for those to whom it refers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170402	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment. Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170406	Yes, it is quite right that things should be able to work in practice. Unfortunately, that is what we cannot see the legislation today. I was supposed to ask a question, but I want to put something down. Of course, it is not the case that, as soon as a case has been brought before the Equal Treatment Board, it should be able to lead to a withdrawal of the alcohol licence. Not at all. What is contained in the proposal is that the emphasis can be placed on the decisions of the Equal Opportunities Board. But what I really wanted to ask is that the rapporteur said in his speech that there should of course be no frivolous discrimination in nightlife. But is there serious discrimination in nightlife that can be justified? That is my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170447	There is certainly serious discrimination in nightlife and in many other places. I mean, if, for example... is a group that you think has caused trouble at the settlement, neighborhood club or host house, so there may be good reason why you didn't think that group should be let into the place you own. This seems very understandable, and it may be something we should be working towards more, because there are some who make fun of the pub environment, because they just go into the neighboring place and then they make a fuss there. And if there is something you are not interested in as the owner of a sensible place where you want to get the store going, then it's trouble, fighting, throwing things and stuff; some who put something in a drink or whatever it may be. So there are a lot of problems. There are also many problems with drugs and marijuana in the nightlife, which are being tried to block their way out by means of some of these measures. So there may be very good reasons why a nightclub or a café does a serious, sensible, proper treatment of those who come at the door, namely by not letting them in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170557	Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170558	Well, thank you for that answer. Then I really got smarter. I think we put something different in the word discrimination. However, I would just like to ask the question whether the rapporteur believes that there is today a problem of nightlife discrimination on the basis of ethnicity. Does the rapporteur recognise that this is a problem today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170618	I certainly believe that there are some who experience what they would call discrimination in nightlife. I think that there are some who are experiencing something, for example. The very threatening behaviour of immigrant gangs, where they often feed themselves by selling drugs and hashish, because there is a lot of money in that. Other people who do not really have unclean flour in the bag may suffer if they want to. There may also be people being sied from in the door because there has generally been unrest in an area of nightlife, and where it is also a pity that you become so. But that doesn't change the fact that he's the one who's got the store to decide who's going in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170700	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. A second brief comment was made here. Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170708	It's because Mr. Peter Skaarup here in the end said that he's the one who's got the store to decide who's going in. But if you cut people off because of their skin color, it's discrimination and illegal. Is Mr. Peter Skaarup agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170728	Yes, I don't like the fact that somebody gets sired off at the door because of their skin color or any other relationship. What you do at a nightclub has to be serious. I'm just saying that there are cases where you have been subjected to so much harassment, so much drug sales or hash sale that you give a doorman I could imagine that here you should be careful to let someone in from the group that is behind some of these things. Then it may be that there are some from that group who have not done this themselves, but the fact that they have had relations with them or are in an area where it has happened makes one who owns such a place so vigilant. I understand that, because you want people to have a happy evening and not a night of fighting or trouble.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170814	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170816	It's a good thing to make it clear that, too, sir. Peter Skaarup thinks you shouldn't separate people because of their skin color, because you shouldn't. It's illegal. But what does Mr. Peter Skaarup then suggest that we do to get the nightclubs to comply with the law we have?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170834	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170836	If you look at the legislation today, you actually have some remedies, and I mentioned this before, if you feel discriminated against. Then you can ask and say that you feel discriminated against and complain, and in some cases there is a fine to be paid to the owner of the café or club, or whatever it is that has been behind that relationship. But to start to tighten the screw further by saying that they must lose their livelihood, there is a way to go, because there are a lot of guests, and there can be a lot of choices that need to be made at such a door marked by, just as I said before, that hashish and drugs have been sold at the door or at the door, and that is not what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170920	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then we have reached the rapporteurs of the authors of the two motions for resolutions and the first is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419170947	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for the debate. After all, I think that we have moved a lot, because now is the third time that the SF has proposed that we should have some tools for enforcing the legislation, so that minority young people should not experience weekend after weekend not being admitted into the great youth community, as it is now to be able to go out of town. Being left on the platform and having to look after, while friends can walk into the disco and you yourself must stay outside not because you are not old enough, not because you are making trouble, but simply because you have the wrong skin color. It is a good thing that there is now legislation which we can at least enforce better with regard to the restaurateurs, which is the real problem here. And, of course, we will look forward to that, although it may not be the proposal that the SF has put forward here. It is therefore a clear breach of current legislation to sort people out according to their skin colour, but the consequences for nightclubs and discotheques that break the law today are largely non-existent. If the case before the Equal Treatment Board ends, it will pay a small fine in the vicinity of 5,000 kroner. I guess that's what you as a restaurateur want to pull on the shoulder of it's really only a small part of your turnover. Perhaps you should have a turnover-based fine, so you made sure that it really meant something more. There are simply some nightclubs which supposedly have quotas for how many young people of other ethnic origin the doormen have to let in. And it is just too often seen that the owner then wipes the case off the doorman, who is claimed to act on his own initiative when young people meet with the message not tonight or it is unfortunately a private party when they want to party with their friends. But it also happens that, as Mateen is told, the quota for how many perks we let in is exhausted for tonight. That's the message he got. I don't think that's okay. As I said before, nightlife is one of the largest youth communities we have in Denmark, and therefore a large group of young people should of course not be excluded from the party. And the fact that this is happening is both safe and certain. It's been documented up to a number of times. But there are also employees who have previously worked at these nightclubs who confirm that this is happening. The integration barometer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration actually shows us that 45%. of immigrants and descendants of non-Western origin have experienced discrimination because of their ethnic background, and the Ministry's Citizenship Survey of 2020 also shows that 11%. of immigrants and 25 per cent of immigrants. by descendants in the last year have experienced being denied access to places where others may enter. It could be in a bus, it could be in a taxi, it could be in a disco. And that there are so many young people who experience this discrimination on their own, is untenable. In the SF we simply want to put an end to the widespread discrimination in nightlife. We will not accept it, either in the night, in the labour market, in the judiciary or anywhere else. We are fighting for this, and with this proposal we were hoping that we could get some tools to put a little more pressure on the industry so that they complied with the legislation, among other things. by being able to provide the opportunity to take the grant from those who do not comply with the law, but also to provide the victims with a greater compensation than the typical 5,000 kroner that is being given today. What may then surprise me in today's debate is that this proposal is, after all, a re-submission of previous proposals that have been put forward twice before, and the last time, in 2017, the Socialists voted in favour. That is why I did not expect the Socialists to have any opposition to the proposal today. I expected that there would be good support for this and that together with the support parties, we could just have run this through. But I understand that the government has given itself a task of taking some rounds on it itself before it actually turns into a legislative proposal. I hope that what the government then brings will also prove to be an effective tool to stem this discrimination in nightlife. Of course, that is not all we have to do in relation to discrimination. This is only a small part; much more is needed. Now we are about to negotiate an action plan against racism and, of course, there is also a large number of proposals that can be pushed into that work. For that is quite clear to us: we want a Denmark that exists for everyone and where everyone has the same equal opportunities in night life, in the labour market and wherever it may be. Thank you for the floor, and thank you for a good debate, I think, and for the broad support for tackling discrimination in nightlife. After all, I think that is very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419171525	Thank you to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419171535	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking you for a good debate, in which I have been, if not surprised, at least welcomed several of the reports that have been made, among others. from the Conservatives and, in part, also from the government, which I welcome, we have a problem and also recognise that today we do not have the tools to deal with discrimination in nightlife. It is basically about the right to be seen as the one you are and not to be reduced to your skin color, and about not having to stand in line again on a Friday or Saturday and again risk being rejected for no valid reason and feeling reduced to just nothing but the ethnicity you have. What lies in the proposals from both us and from the SF is to change the incentives for the restaurants. And it is actually thought-provoking that today we are a place where having a different ethnic background is seen as a threat in itself, which makes it seem more profitable for some restaurateurs to reject everyone at the door instead of letting everyone in and then, regardless of their skin color, throw out those who make the trouble when they get in. So there is a place where it seems that there are so many people who cause trouble that you keep everyone, or at least the vast majority, with other ethnic backgrounds out of some bars. So it is a question of changing the incentives, and that is why we also have a desire in the Radical Left that we cannot continue to discriminate if we have what we might call a track record, which has repeatedly been decided that there has been discrimination at one's nightclub. And, of course, we hope that the government will also listen to and move away from just wanting to put emphasis on it in matters of renewal, but that it will also withdraw the grant. Finally, I would just like to say that I also think that a number of other good proposals have come up in the debate. The Enhedslisten has among other things: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which I think is a good one, and it has not been reduced to solving the problems of discrimination by doing so. But we cannot simply say that they are there without providing solutions. So we have to start somewhere, and I think this is an obvious and not very intrusive place to start, by the way. For yes, it is basically not a human right to go to a bar, but it is a human right not to be discriminated against, including in the nightlife. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419171847	Thank you to Mrs Sophie Callesen. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposals be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419171904	The debate is open and the Minister for Development Cooperation is the first to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419171926	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking the proposers of the Free Greens, and I would also like to say at the outset that it is still the Government's ambition that Denmark should fulfil our international commitments on climate finance for developing countries, including contributing to the collective objective of mobilising at least 100 billion. Dollars a year, as agreed at COP15 in Copenhagen in 2009. Prior to COP26 in Glasgow, the government set a number of objectives for Danish climate assistance from 2023. At least 25%. of aid to developing countries must go to climate action, of which at least 60% must be spent. go to climate adaptation focusing on the poorest and most vulnerable. It is both in demand from developing countries, and it is praised by the UN Secretary-General. There is the first time that a Danish government has set such ambitious national climate targets, and at the same time we will continue to mobilise funding for climate investment in developing countries, in addition to aid, through development banks and from the private sector, as it was also decided at COP15 and in the Paris Agreement I continue to expect Denmark to contribute at least 1% overall. of the $100 from 2023 corresponding to approx. 6.5 billion kr. on a daily basis. It is clear from the motion for a resolution that it is the position of the proposers that Denmark's share of the 100 billion. $5 billion. kr. I take note of that, but at the same time I would like to point out that there is not a single international agreement text where the collective mobilisation target of the 100 billion is concerned. Dollar is divided by country. The mobilisation target is precisely a collective goal. So neither COP15 nor later has a specific distribution been agreed on, in relation to how much each country should contribute. In addition, the resolution is based on two positions on what has been decided by the United Nations on the provision of climate aid and the mobilisation of climate finance to developing countries, for which there is no evidence. Firstly, I would like to remind you that the 100 billion. The dollar is a mobilisation target which includes a range of different sources of funding, including both public and private financing opportunities. So it is not just a question of public budget assistance. In that case, we would never achieve a global target of mobilising the necessary funding. This is also the reason why Denmark is working targetedly to mobilise private investment for the green transition. We have been doing this for many years, among others. through the Investment Fund for Developing Countries, IFU. We have also launched a new State guarantee instrument to help promote private investment in developing countries, for example. in the case of loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and green investments in e.g. PV companies and energy efficiency improvements. Against this background, Denmark contributed in 2021 to mobilise more than estimated 4 billion. kr. in financing other than public climate assistance. Secondly, there is the whole question of the concept of new and additional. It has not been agreed in the UN Convention on Climate Change that climate financing should be in excess of 0.7%. In Denmark, we provide assistance for development. The concept of new and additional dates back to the beginning of the United Nations Climate Convention signed in 1992 in Rio de Janeiro. Here the developed countries, the donor countries, committed themselves to providing new and additional financial resources to developing countries. The concept is not defined further than that, and I can stress that the way in which Denmark conducts climate aid is fully in line with most other OECD countries, including a number of major EU countries such as Germany, France and the Netherlands. In conclusion, I would like to stress that I have great sympathy for the intention of the proposal to provide even more climate assistance to developing countries. For climate change and the move on the nature of the world amplify many of the challenges facing the world. That is precisely why climate is also one of the cornerstones of our development policy strategies, which we adopted last June and which eight parties in this Parliament are behind. For this very reason, the government has also set ambitious targets for climate finance. However, this is also a very far-reaching resolution which will bind not only the current government but also future governments to devote 0.7 per cent. of bni plus 5 billion. kr. in overall climate and development assistance each year, even without any funding being allocated. We already have a development policy strategy with a broad majority behind it, ensuring that we give at least 0.7%. of development aid. In addition, in the context of the annual financial negotiations, additional aid may be agreed in addition to the 0.7%. Here, in the context of the financial law negotiations, parties can allocate additional funds for climate action in developing countries. This ensures flexibility, and I think that is a good way to do it. The proposers also want better and more transparent reporting, and I fully agree with that, and we are already doing so as part of the global reporting and as a follow-up to the Reichsaudit's report on climate aid. So here I do not think there is any need for further instructions for the government. For this reason, I reject the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419172602	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419172606	Thank you to the Minister for the Minister's reply, which, of course, we in the Green Group are sorry about, and I am sure that does not surprise the Minister. There were a lot of things I would like to ask about, but some of what the Minister emphasised was about new and additional. It is quite true that it is not an official concept and that it is a political discussion that we can take, but would the Minister not acknowledge that it was the position of the Social Democrats quite from Mr. Svend Auken and forward that the Social Democracy itself has come into government in 2019, that climate aid should be new, additional funds, and that means that it should not be part of, and not taken from, development aid? Will the Minister not confirm that the government and the Social Democratic Party have made a turnaround here, that is to say that it has always been a social democratic attitude, that "new" and "addition" mean that you find new money and that you do not take away from development aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419172714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419172716	I would like to say to the rapporteur that I have made it very clear what the position of the government is, and that has always been the position of the current government. We are very ambitious in providing additional funding. That is what we are talking about, and we are also being praised by the UN Secretary-General for the fact that we have set very ambitious targets in relation to what is our framework. It's a political discussion, and you just have to take it if you want to contribute more than 0.7 per cent. Denmark is one of only five countries in the world that provides at least 0.7%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419172808	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419172810	That is also the discussion we are trying to take here. For it is strange that for 25 years the Social Democrats have had the attitude that we should find new money for climate aid and that, given that we have the opportunity to do so, we should be in government, we should turn on a plate, and then we should have a different attitude. Is it not true that Mr. Svend Auken clearly said that it is climate money that climate aid should be additional, that is, new money, and that it should not be taken from development aid? Is it not true that Mr. Jeppe Kofod criticized the government for doing just this? Is it not true that Mrs Mette Gjerskov called it forgery to take climate aid from development aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419172855	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419172856	There has been no government that has expressed itself as ambitious in terms of funding climate challenges as we are currently doing, and that we have further said that it is climate adjustment that is in line, because CO2 Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419172921	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for Development Cooperation. Now we are embarking on the rapporteur's round and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419172937	Thank you very much for that, and also thank you very much from here to the Free Greens for the resolution, which is, of course, about a very important issue: climate aid. The proposal is to require the government to ensure that Denmark contributes 30 billion by the end of 2025. kr. in what is here referred to as "new and additional climate assistance' for the period 2020 to 2025. Ever since the Social Democracy took over government responsibility in 2019, the climate has been a very, very central priority across several different policy areas, as well as development policy. In the new development policy strategy, together with a broad majority, we have ensured that the climate fills very much in the Danish development effort, and from 2023 onwards, as the Minister also mentioned, we have an objective that climate aid should be at least 25%. of development aid under the terms of Section 6.3 of the Finance Act. It is absolutely essential that we increase the funds for both green conversion and, not least, climate adjustment in the world's poorest and most fragile countries, which are hit really hard by these climate change. As I said, we are already doing this, both in terms of public funds and development aid and the mobilisation of private funds. Both are important and necessary if we are to achieve it. So, yes, this is an important issue on which the proposal here is about, and we agree that climate aid needs to be increased. We've also done that within the framework of these 0.7%. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In addition, as I have said, we contribute in various ways to mobilising private funds too. Finally, not least, we must say, because of the good work done by our support parties, we have also succeeded in finding some funds for climate aid in addition to the 0.7%. of the financial laws that have so far been made under this government. However, we cannot support a proposal that costs 30 billion. kr. and where no funding is indicated. So social democracy cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419173210	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419173214	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. I shall be on the same street, because the Minister expressed the opinion of the government, and I therefore think that it is perhaps appropriate to ask the Socialist rapporteur about the position of the Social Democrat Group. Is it not true that all the way to government in 2019, it has always been a social democratic attitude that climate aid is not taken from foreign aid? I brought out a number of different Social Democrats who have expressed it. Now I read a quote from the current Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod. Jeppe Kofod says - I quote: does the Minister not agree with this? If other countries follow Denmark's example, then we will not get the necessary funding to solve the climate challenge; if other countries just started using their development aid to solve the climate promises that have been given in Copenhagen, for example. Mette Gjerskov called it fancy. Will the rapporteur not recognise that the Socialists have turned on a plate here? It has always been said that it must be new money. Then you go to government, where you actually do it, and then you have changed your mind. Will the rapporteur acknowledge this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419173325	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419173326	In fact, the discussion is about how much of this money we have to give in development aid. Because if you give more than the 0.7%. In the case of development aid, it will be possible to say that what is above 0.7 per cent is what has to do with climate. I would like to acknowledge that there have been previous social democratic governments in the past, which have had development aid of more than 0.7%, which is the framework of this government's development policy. So it is true that the party's policy in some areas has changed in relation to the level measured as a percentage of GDP. Then I think the rapporteur said that it had always been the policy of the Social Democratic Party, all the way up to the time when we were given the power of government in 2019. As I remember the election campaign in 2019, the Social Democratic Party then went to the polls that the framework for Danish development policy should be 0.7 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419173432	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419173437	I am glad that the rapporteur then acknowledges that although I think it is a sad development, there has been a change of attitude, coming close to entering government offices. I could not ask the Minister this question, so I would like to ask the rapporteur here too: would the rapporteur not also acknowledge that yes, it may well be that the Secretary-General of the United Nations praises, but that the chief negotiator of the African countries, Mr. Mr Alpha, I am content with saying that this is a wrong practice and that this is not something that has been debated and discussed with the countries to help? Is it not true that changing practices is not something that has been agreed with the countries to actually help? Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419173526	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419173528	Just to start with some of the first things the questioner says, the questioner suggests that the development policy of social democracy depends on whether we sit in government or not. I do not agree with that, because there have been previous social democratic governments which have been higher than these 0.7%. I recognise that there has been an adjustment of social democracy policy when it comes to what is the framework as a percentage of GDP for development policy, but it has not been dependent on whether social democracy has been in government or not. Then I would say that it is true that in this area there are so great challenges and problems around the world that you can always want to give more. And could it be nice sometimes to be able to give even more and could give something beyond the 0.7 percent.? Yeah, it could. But do we have reason to be ashamed of the level we are on? No, I certainly don't think we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419173621	Thank you. We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419173633	Thank you to the Free Greens. Thank you, Mr President. Sikandar Siddique to put development aid on the agenda. I always think that is good when we discuss Denmark's contribution in the world, and here it is specifically Denmark's contribution to climate change, i.e. the financial contribution to really doing what we can to stop it. The wish here is quite great: 30 billion. kr. in the form of additional funds up to 2025. As both the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur have said, there is nothing to be ashamed of in relation to what Denmark provides in development aid. 0,7 per cent of our gross national product, which this year is probably around 16-18 billion. kr., is, after all, a great deal of tax-financed development aid, which I think we can put our backs on in every way and be proud of. The Left is part of the development policy strategy and fully supports the turn that naturally comes with the developments we see in the world, especially here, when today's issue is about climate aid. So the wish here is not incomprehensible, I do not want to say it is, because I fully understand that you can have those ambitions and that you can have a desire for it to be even more. This is not an economic approach that the Left shares, because we believe that with the 0.7%. of bni lies in a sensible place. We have sometimes been up around 1%, and I remember every election campaign where we can always debate, if not it should be more. But with 0.7 percent. As the Minister also mentioned, we are therefore among the five countries in the world that do the most. I would very much like more countries to reach the level of 0.7 per cent, and we should not be ashamed of ourselves, and so we cannot turn it up further with all the other things that good taxpayers in this country would also like to finance. So we are not going to support this resolution, but we are always happy to support the fact that we have a good and sensible debate. I would like to commend the Minister's speech in order to focus on the fact that it is not only public funds that help to change the climate load and help to put climate initiatives in the sea, both in Denmark but also internationally. So, the fact that there are very much private investors here who are going in and helping to do something about this extremely important agenda, I think there is reason to acknowledge and be grateful that it is not only public funds that have to carry out such a task. In these words, I would like to thank you very briefly for the motion for a resolution, and above all thank you for the debate and thank you for the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419173940	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment I should like to make. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419173944	Thank you to the rapporteur. In fact, I think this is the first time I have seen the rapporteur stand on the floor, because normally the rapporteur always sits in the chair when I am down here in the Chamber. We are, of course, sorry that the Left will not support it, for the richest 10%. emits more than 50 per cent. of the world's total greenhouse gases, and the truth is that we have a moral and historical responsibility, because it is we in the rich part of the world who have created this climate crisis to a large extent. And who pays the price? They do in the South. I think it was sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who at the time said that it should be additional money, new money, and I think that was the position in the Left too, but that was also Mr. Løkke Rasmussen. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, who in his time as the President of the Left and Prime Minister changed that practice. So I just have to say, so I understand the rapporteur quite correctly, whether it is the position of the Left now that climate aid is not a new money to be found, but that it can be taken from development aid, where the aim is, of course, to combat poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419174059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419174101	Thank you for the question. I have to tell the proposer that it is also a pleasure to be on the platform just once in a while with some important discussions. And just as to how something is additional and new money, I would say that I think there was a very good answer from the Minister in terms of how to calculate it here and that we are completely in line with how very many other countries also calculate climate aid specifically. And then I think somewhere else, it might turn out to be a little nerdy, technical discussion. We are able in this country, with good Danish taxpayers' contributions, to send about 16-18 billion. kr. I think that is an enormous amount of money, and I think that we should perhaps look more closely at how this money is going to benefit, what it is doing, what it is doing, what it is doing, what it is doing, what it is doing, what it is doing. For example, a climate action to make sustainable agriculture could also, at the same time, focus on how women and girls' rights are in a labour market. All these things I think are more important to focus on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419174212	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419174214	What worries us in the Free Greens is that we see a development that we think is super negative. One thing is, you don't want to pay this $5 billion. kr. The second is that we are undermining development aid. It has not been very long since we had a discussion here in Parliament about the Ukrainian refugees and the fact that parts of them will now be financed from development aid. And where do we end up? The aim of development aid is to combat poverty, to get women into school, to give women empowerment, to develop these countries, and where do we end up if we start funding everything from development aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419174300	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419174301	Thank you for the question. Let me start by saying that I simply do not recognise the premise. Sir. Sikandar Siddique starts by saying we won't pay. We are paying on a large scale and we are making some fantastic active efforts around the developing world precisely to help reverse negative developments. So I do not accept the premise, but I think it is an irresponsible proposal when you stand and knock your arms out and say that we should spend just 30 billion. kr. We are not going to give the funding any more, but we are not going to give it. I really don't think that's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419174337	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419174349	While we in Europe have only begun to see the consequences of the climate crisis in recent years, most recently with severe floods in Germany last year, where many died, the consequences of the climate crisis have actually been lived in the world's poorest countries for many years. Unfortunately, as with all other serious matters here in society, they are primarily affecting the weakest, and this also applies to the poorest people on earth. In fact, a decision has also just been made under UN Women that it is girls and women who are affected only when you look at the consequences of the climate crisis. We have agreed with the United Nations and when I say we are, it is because we are all part of the United Nations that climate finance should be raised. This was agreed in Copenhagen, where it was not otherwise agreed on so much else. It was an embarrassing affair. It is rare to talk about Copenhagen very much when you attend climate meetings, because it was nothing to be proud of. However, agreement was reached on this climate finance to be raised in the years from 2020 to 2025, i.e. from the entry into force of the Paris Agreement and then to 2025. It must be said that since then it has been an embarrassing affair; an embarrassing affair, because very, very few countries have chosen to pay money for it, and because very many countries choose to calculate whatever climate finance, that is to say loans on market terms, export credits to their own businesses, so that they can come out and sell something in other countries, etc., in other words a number of things that in my optics would be difficult to call aid. Both the non-fulfilment of this commitment about 100 billion. kr. And these weird calculations that have been used around the world show very well the weakness of some of the climate agreements we have made internationally, where we have had to agree on something that has done, that we have found some wordings that we could agree on, but then we have to figure out what this means. How are we gonna make rules about how we're gonna settle the money? Who's gonna pay what? This is something that the big discussion is about. How much should each country offer? One might say that the resolution we are debating today is perhaps actually a very good such list of reminders towards COP 27, compared to when we are going to talk about climate finance item 2025. Should we get a little more rules with that? Should we not agree: what is the distribution mechanism among the rich countries that agree to give some money to the world's poorest and to those who first have to live with the consequences of the climate crisis? Should we agree on what exactly we can calculate as climate aid? So that's some of what I think would be really important to go on with. Then some words have been used by both the Left and the Social Democrats, saying: we have nothing to be ashamed of. I really do not like guilt and shame very much as concepts. I think it is mostly about the fact that there is a task to be solved. Are we helping to solve it, or are we not? It has to be said that we are. Are we doing okay? No, we do not, because we have as much responsibility as all the other rich countries that have promised something. Then you can say that the others do not pay as much as we do, so we can be proud, and we should not feel guilty, because instead of those from Holland or Canada who do, or whoever, you choose to point your finger at. We have a collective responsibility on the part of the rich countries to raise this climate finance, and until we are in line with it, we cannot be satisfied. That is also why I am pleased that we, in other words SF together with Enhedslisten and Radicals, have succeeded in fighting some additional climate aid into the finance laws since the change of government in 2019. We have not been satisfied with the amount, but we are glad that it has come along. For us, it is very important to ensure that before we start making the longer-term plan of how we get into development aid and how we move forward step by step. That's what we're using our energy for. That is also what we bring in every year in our financial legislation and spend time on in the negotiations. It also means that we will not be voting in favour of this proposal. We negotiate finance law in the financial laws negotiations. That is also where we are fighting for additional climate aid. The last thing I'm gonna say is this thing with the additional stuff. Well, I think I've been in 20-25 consultations since 2015 about additionality. I can see past and present ministers smiling. For some of what we also need to be better at when we make international agreements is that we are not just throwing ourselves around with expressions of additionality in climate aid. Because what does that mean? Yes, I think there have been three different definitions from the development ministers since I came to parliament and it might be fun to have a list transmitted at some point, because how many definitions have there been on additionality since 1992, when they started working on this? But thank you for the suggestion. We reject it on the part of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419174905	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Sir. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419174908	Thank you to the rapporteur from the SF. The rapporteur just mentioned that additional funds had been negotiated in the Finance Act. So what we can see clearly from the figures is that Denmark is currently paying 2.8 billion. kr. in climate assistance. And there it is 100 million. kr. kr. kr. So if they weren't there, it was 2.7 billion. kr. I just want to hear about SF's attitude. SF is satisfied that you spend 2.7 billion. kr. from development aid, or does the SF also want, regardless of what fair share is, that, in order to achieve the objective we have committed ourselves to in 2009, it is additional funds, new funds or other funds, and certainly not part of development aid? Because I didn't catch that in the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175013	That's a shame. I don't have five minutes to start over. I really think I made this very clear. Until we are in line with funding, we are not really satisfied. And what I'm talking about is the rich countries. In addition, we are talking about additionality, and that is the 100 million. kr. which we have negotiated home with the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten. That's the additional. So I actually think the answer is clear. The additional is only that which is above the 0.7%. It has been in our optics since we started discussing this, and that is the way we have gone to the negotiations on the Finance Act. But I also recognise that there is a broad majority in favour of 0.7 per cent. In addition, the pain threshold for development policy in Denmark is similar. We are then fighting against that politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175054	There are no more questions. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, Anne Sophie Callesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175121	Thank you from here too for raising the debate on climate aid. It is important, and I fully share the indignation of my predecessor here on the platform, in that we have now ended up in a place where Denmark is so far out of line to deliver on the promise which I certainly believe is indeed collective, but which we must also lift off our fair share in order to deliver. The poorest in the world are now paying for pollution that they have not created themselves, and that is why it is of course our responsibility in the privileged, prosperous part of the world to take responsibility for us. So I and the Radical Left share the intention to the full. Like SF, we also want us to have a long-term plan and to have a stairwell for how we deliver both on climate aid and also on providing more in development aid, where our goal is in the long term 1%. instead of the current 0.7%. So we fully agree with the intention. Having said that, I actually share the indignation of the rapporteur of the Left in bringing forward a motion for a resolution which is not being financed. I have to say that I am somewhat puzzled that one is willing to print such a large bill. One thing is that we often deal with unfunded motions for resolutions in the Parliamentary Assembly, but such a large bill as will not be indicated how to pay, I think is something crazy. I would really like to hear where the proposers themselves believe that that money should be found and I might have the opportunity to do so. But we certainly believe that there is a need for Denmark to deliver. 30 billion. kr. is not a realistic amount to find by 2025. We would very much like to find new money; we have also helped to secure that from two financial laws in a row. And we would also like to have had a different amount, so we will continue to fight to deliver more concrete results on that, hopefully. So thank you again for raising an important debate. We cannot support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175342	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175345	It is, of course, a pity that the Radical Left will not support the proposal, and I think, with all due respect for what was said in the speech, that this is unfortunately the position that prevails in this Chamber, namely that it does not understand the seriousness of the climate crisis. The argument is that because it is a large amount, one cannot support the proposal. I mean, we are talking about a climate crisis that people today are living with the consequences of a crisis that we have created. I hope that it is not the Christiansborg logic that lies in the foreground, but that it is that we are in this overriding crisis and that we must get out of it and that we must do what we can, and there is 30 billion. kr. Nothing. Well, we just found 18 billion. kr. For gunpowder and bullets, we can find 30 billion. kr. But what I want to ask the rapporteur is: is it the opinion of the Radicals that it is okay that we take climate aid from development aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175449	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175450	To the end, I will say 'no' quite clearly. It is our policy that we want climate aid to be additional funds. It's just to answer it quite clearly. I would just like to say that I do not think it is a bad logic that we think we should finance the proposals we are putting forward here in Parliament. I then agree with the need for us to be much more ambitious in terms of everything that concerns both green conversion and the need to take responsibility for a whole different and much greater responsibility; moreover, for those whom climate change particularly affects, namely the world's poorest. But I have to say that if you think that 30 billion... kr. I think that you are somewhere else than where I am, because it is a bill that will have enormous consequences for our well-being or our state finances if you just print it out. So we cannot do that in the Radical Left, but we want Denmark to take the lead and also to inspire other countries to deliver more, which is why we must of course deliver more ourselves than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175554	If the rapporteur and Radicals believe that 30 billion. kr. Is a lot of money and a big bill, and radicals want to shoulder their responsibilities at the same time, how much do Radicals think we should pay in Denmark? How much is good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175617	After all, we should have been where we had been paying the bill at this time, but we are not because of the wrong priorities, especially from the previous government, but also from the current one, who has not made a plan for how we are getting a stairway towards delivering our fair share. So we want that stairwell to be set up. This is our policy in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175640	We thank the rapporteur. I see no rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, so the next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175659	Thank you, President. And thank you to the Free Greens for a sympathetic proposal. It is not always the view of the Conservatives that we have regarding the proposals of the Free Greens, but this is sincerely a sympathetic proposal, because global climate change is huge and complex. On the Conservative side, we take the climate challenges extremely seriously, and that is also why we have helped to push for faster green transition in third world countries, not least with green as the overall theme across green energy, water, green jobs, education, better governance, etc. Fortunately, it is a job that we are very many parties that stand together in this Parliament. Then there has been a debate today about who should actually bear the heaviest responsibility, and there we note that one of the fundamental principles of the UN Convention on Climate Change, that countries should protect the climate in accordance with the principle of shared but differentiated responsibility, and respective capabilities. In other words, the rich countries must take the lead and the strongest shoulders must bear the greatest burden. However, we also note, unfortunately, that there are very many countries which do not comply with the obligations. Only a few countries pay 0.7 per cent. of bni. In this respect, we are very pleased and proud that Denmark is one of the few countries that live up to it. That is, as the Left said, 16 to 18 billion. kr. every year in Danish kroner for development assistance from Denmark, which also goes to the climate effort. Rasmus Nordqvist said that we should feel ashamed that we are not giving any more, but there I would like to turn it around and say that I think it is really, really nice that Denmark is one of the few countries that live up to the 0.7%. And when you look at how much we deliver in relation to the size of our economy and our country, I do not think we have anything to be ashamed of. Could we do more as the Free Greens propose here? Well, you can always do that, but there has to be an opinion, a financing and a rationale in relation to the other costs of the state. On the Conservative side, we are always open to talking about whether we should adjust our aid so that it is in other respects best targeted climate action, but I would remind you, as several other rapporteurs have also reminded us, that this proposal is a total of 30 billion. kr. It is therefore a fairly large amount of money to ask the Danish Parliament for when it does not propose the funding itself. In addition, it is relatively far from what a majority of parties here in the Folketing have already decided in relation to our development aid. That is why Conservatives cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175937	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419175940	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Conservatives. One thing is what we pay, how much we pay, but another is the whole discussion, which we have actually had in the past, about new funds. And what is the attitude of the Conservatives in relation to that discussion? Do you think that was the intention, the purpose, when the agreement was concluded? It was actually clear, but is it also the view of the Conservatives that this was new funds when this agreement was concluded in 2009? Is it the view of the Conservative People's Party that these were new funds, that is to say that they said: well, we find some climate aid, and it is new funds that we have to find, and they should not leave development aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419180037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419180039	There I will allow myself to give the easy answer. After all, I am not a development rapporteur on a daily basis, and I was not part of that agreement. Now the rapporteur said 2009 and I am not quite sure whether that is what the rapporteur is referring to, but I can at least say that overall, the agreements we make in the area of development embrace both climate and development. I am also aware that the rapporteur is critical of the fact that we are also using development aid to help, for example. Ukrainians coming here. We think that is a sensible way of spending the money. Well, these are people on the run. However, precisely as regards whether it was extra money when the agreement was concluded or whether it was part of a single package, I must simply be guilty of the rapporteur's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419180117	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419180119	I think that is actually fair enough when you are not a daily development rapporteur. But then I'll try to make it easier. Connie Hedegaard writes in an e-mail that additionality, i.e. that climate support is added to development aid, should be complied with by everyone, also by Denmark. She stresses that developing countries see the promise as binding: it is a clear expectation from the recipient countries that it is new and additional money that we are talking about so that they do not indirectly pay for themselves. Does the rapporteur agree with Connie Hedegaard?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419180151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419180153	That's a very good question. Allow me to reflect on this, because we have a target of 0.7%. of bni, but we don't have any extra percentage target specific to climate, and the climate also embraces quite broadly, as I said here, it's green energy, it's green jobs, and you can't just cut it out as something that's completely separate from the rest of development aid. But I would like to take the question with me and then think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419180224	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and welcome the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419180249	I thank the Free Greens for raising the matter here in the Folketing. After all, it is a discussion which has been reversed in several ways in our parliamentary system with, for example, Article 20 issues and consultation with the Minister for Development, and which, in short, is about more money for climate aid than the 0.7% that Denmark provides every year from bnp. There are also large numbers of people who have mentioned what the Free Greens are doing: 30 billion. kr., 30,000 million. kr., I think it's called, in climate aid alone and that is 0.7 per cent. of bnp, approx. 16 billion kr. in other words, and the year we are going to meet, 46 billion tax dollars. Let me first say that when Denmark grants approx. 16 billion kr. To the poor of the world, we have nothing to be embarrassed about. Danish taxpayers give handsomely and with a good heart, and should it happen that the government will collect climate money within our 0.7 per cent, it sounds like a sensible idea, I wonder if other countries could also do the same. Yes, Denmark has committed itself to being part of the collective of countries, which together will provide 100 billion. US dollars in real climate aid, but as I have understood, distribution figures have not been put on, but I would like to guess that, as I have said, Denmark is a great international place and that none of our partners will demand more of Denmark. Moreover, climate aid has always been a natural part of development aid and has been accepted internationally as such. Climate aid should be seen, we believe, as a fully integrated part of total development aid. The Danish People's Party has always supported the award of 0.7 per cent. of development aid. It is a United Nations-recommended figure, which I think the Danes actually broadly support. But we will not be asking Danish taxpayers to return to the wallet for new billions for development aid. As one might sense, the Danish People's Party cannot support B 181.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419180504	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419180506	Thank you to the rapporteur. I just want to correct the rapporteur. I do not know whether it was a mistake for the rapporteur to say so, but it is not 30 billion. kr. a year. That's 30 billion. kr. from 2020 to 2025. Well, one thing is, sir. Søren Espersen, one's attitude as to whether we pay a lot or we pay a little, whether it is appropriate, etc. It's one discussion. But now the rapporteur is, what can be said, politically. The rapporteur has been sitting in here for many years, is a senior politician and has been in here for very, very many years. Can the rapporteur confirm that when we have talked about climate aid for many years, including the Social Democrats and the Left, it has always been a political opinion that climate aid is new means to be found? And so it may well be that one disagrees with that, but would the rapporteur confirm that the political discussions in Denmark over the last 25 years with the major supporting parties have been that climate aid is new means to be found outside development aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419180611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419180611-2	That is how I understand it, but the Danish People's Party is not in that majority, and the reason is that we really think that we had found a real rent in relation to development aid, i.e. 16, 17, 18, sometimes 19 billion. kr. for development aid every year. As I said, it is essential that we have our people involved in this and that, in general, support is actually being given to this in the Danish population, and that is why it is stupid, I think, right in this case, to come and demand more funds. But we would very much like this to be kept within the 0.7%, as opposed to several of the other rapporteurs who have made their views known.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419180701	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419180728	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. We've discussed this sometimes, and it's absolutely right that we owe it. We believe that additional climate aid is beyond development aid. Unfortunately, it is just as with refugees from Ukraine: every time money is lacking, development aid is withdrawn and stolen from the general development of the world's poorest people. This has also been done with climate aid, even when the government tells us that they spend so much and so many billions of dollars every year. I'd like to build my speech around some good friends I have. I will tell you who it is along the way, but it could be that some people in this Chamber could recognise some of the opinions that exist. At the Rio United Nations Conference in 1992, the industrialized countries undertook to step up their efforts to deal with global environmental problems. National efforts had to be made to restructure production and consumption so that both became more sustainable. Internationally, new ones were to be made available, as is stated in the language of additional funds, for investment by developing countries in sustainable development, in other words money, in addition to what was already provided for general development aid. In this way we marked the Danish will to see things in context and to make an extra effort for the environment in the overall assistance. And if there was to be a single Social Democrat sitting there thinking: damn it, I've heard that before, that's right. It's Poul Nelson who said that. Today the situation is quite different. The government has taken part in the overall development assistance and used it for climate assistance despite the promise to the contrary. That's not fair. Climate problems have been created by the rich countries, including Denmark, and it is therefore only fair that the rich countries pay for the damage caused by global warming in developing countries. Therefore, climate assistance should not count in the development assistance. That is what the Social Democrats and the SF said in a supplementary report on the draft Finance Act for the financial year 2011. Now I must be careful not to use too many quotes, because a speech must not be dominated by quotes, but I will use one more. Today the situation is quite different. The government has taken a large part of the total development assistance and used it for climate assistance despite the promise to the contrary. That's not fair. Climate problems have been created by rich countries, etc. etc. And this time, too, a Social Democrat had said so. And once again and again, and to those who are interested in the development policy history of social democracy, I would like to say that I would like to deliver the written quotes so that it can be on the Minister's table when he has to think about what they are talking about. Development aid is necessary because it is the rich countries that have actually had over-consumption and produced CO2 That is why it is right and fair, and that is why we have committed ourselves in Paris in 2015 to a very large amount of money, which is why it is quite appropriate to say today that it is a sensible proposal. And I would like to say that we would like to take part in the proposal, if it can be understood that if, moreover, the Folketing gets together to decide it, we will jointly find the economy, since it is not on the flat hand to find 25 billion. kr. But thank you for the opportunity to discuss it again. The Enhedslisten has made a series of proposals in this area, but it is also a good thing that others are pointing this out to us, and I also think that the Minister can almost memorize the song from the meetings that have been on this important issue. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181144	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Sikandar Siddique. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181149	Thank you. Thank you for a good speech and thank you for supporting this proposal. I am glad that it is Enhedslisten's approach that this is crucial. We must, of course, commit ourselves to this, and then we will find the funding together. So thank you so much. There is, however, something that I did not catch in the rapporteur's speech, and out of curiosity I want to hear: what does Enhedslisten, or the rapporteur, mean is Denmark's fair share of the 100 billion. Dollars? Does Enhedslisten have a position on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181226	Well, we have mentioned this very, very many times, and the government and various government party politicians have also mentioned that it is 5 billion. kr. a year. And we are not running away from that; there is no problem with that. We have then tried to take what we could get in the budget negotiations, and there we have disagreed with the Free Greens; they thought it was too little. But when we could get 100 million. kr. or 200 million kr., and what it's become, we've brought it with us. That's clear enough. And then we have an ongoing discussion about exactly how much of what is involved in development aid should count, because the Socialists, or at least the Minister for Development, believe that it should also count if it has anything to do with climate action. There we disagree; there we think it is new, additional money, and that means that it should be beyond the 0.7%.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181317	We thank you for that. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and I do not see any more questioners wishing to speak. Then I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181340	Thank you, President. The climate crisis is an inequality crisis. Globally, the largest has 1%. of the world's population emitted more than twice as many greenhouse gases as the poorest half of the earth's population combined over the last 30 years. It's actually such a wild statistic that you barely get it. The climate crisis is about inequality and injustice. It is we in the rich countries who have created the crisis and who continue to make it worse every day. On the other hand, it is the poorest and most vulnerable people in the global south who are fleeing when the floods hit and starve when the harvest fails due to the high temperatures and the lack of rain. They bear the consequence of our rich people's overuse and overexploitation of nature's resources in an eternal quest for growth. The climate crisis is hitting awkwardly. It's not fair. The crisis reflects the fundamentally unjust colonial structures that are the basis of the situation we are facing today. The climate aid that we have signed to give to the most vulnerable countries is a political UN compromise and does not in any way reflect a real need for funding. And still we refuse to pay it. In Denmark, we would rather help the green transition by selling all kinds of technological inventions to the world's poorest countries. In this way, we can call ourselves a green pioneer country, and at the same time our business community can make money from the climate crisis and the desperation of others. Climate aid must be provided as assistance and not as loans. Climate aid is essential, because if we do not deliver it, we will help to draw away the whole foundation of trust under the COP system. Climate aid is important because it is a small aid for the poorest and most vulnerable countries to actually adjust and adapt to global warming for their sakes and for the sake of all of us. The problem with Danish aid is that, firstly, we do not pay anywhere near what we owe and have committed ourselves to, and secondly, that we take the money for climate aid from the wrong place. We take the money from the world's poorest and hollow down development aid. Shamelessly and hypocritically, the developing countries and a united Danish civil society say: it seems that the social democracy's definition of new, additional funds fluctuates as the social democracy sits in government or does not. The Danish climate aid should be at least 5 billion. kr. a year from 2020 to 2025 and then grow bigger to reflect the actual financing requirement. Because the need only gets bigger. It is basically about justice, and it is about survival. We have lived on the shoulders of other people for many years. The least we can do is pay what we owe. Thank you for the floor and thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181650	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Mrs Karen Ellemann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181654	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now that the opportunity is there, I would just like to hear the fact that several of the rapporteurs in this debate have mentioned the lack of authorisation for financing a few words about how the 30 billion. kr. is provided if it stood for the Free Greens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181713-2	That makes a lot of sense. After all, for us in the Free Greens, this is so crucial that our position is that this must, of course, be done and, of course, we will find the money. We could make a turnover tax, we could make a wealth tax, we could remove the parcel house rule and tax housing gains. There are a lot of ways we could finance this proposal. What matters to us is that we need to change our logic, as well as our climate crisis. We have to deal with it, and that is why, having said that, I would of course also say that if we could find 18 billion with a fingertips like this. kr. For our safety, for gunpowder and bullets, we also need to find 5 billion. kr. for climate assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181814	Karen Ellemann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181815	Thank you for your answer. I have actually tried to find it a little bit, and it may well be that I have just looked in the wrong place, because I do not really think I see it in any budget proposal. That is one part of the question. There has been an answer: increased taxes. And I would just like to make a comment on that: it is not just a finger-tip that you just find 18 billion. kr. in a war situation. These are difficult priorities, as the Greens then choose to do in a different way. We are different, and that has become clear in this debate this evening. But maybe I can hear a little bit about where I can find it this way specifically, this with the 30 billion. kr. to additional climate assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181857	Just as war is about life and death, the climate is also about life and death. It does. Even now there are people who live with and, yes, die from the consequences. It means something to the world and to people around the world. So just like we found 18 billion. kr. kr. We want them to be found, for example. a wealth tax, housing tax, turnover tax, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419181936	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Before we move on to the last item on the agenda, we need to place the rapporteurs. Making everything go up is a logistical challenge. Yeah, we're having an exciting setup up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419182330	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 21 April 2022. For reasons of explanatory statement, Mr President, I welcome the rapporteur for the questioners. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419182349	Thank you. In December 2021, the Police Intelligence Service, in cooperation with the Defence Intelligence Service, contacted on its own initiative a number of media managers of Berlingske Media, JP/Politikens Hus and Danmarks Radio, DR respectively. The purpose was allegedly to inform the media managers concerned that section 109 of the Criminal Code provides the possibility to punish journalists and media who disclose information of a particularly confidential nature. Subsequently, a number of journalists were summoned for questioning and questioned about their source network. Without exaggeration, I think we can say that this is not something that happens every day. In fact, it was a very unusual step taken by the secret service. Perhaps this is precisely why the events also triggered a relatively violent reaction, both from domestic and foreign journalists' associations and from various Danish media. The Danish Journalist Federation called the events inappropriate, the Danish Media Association described it as a slippery path, and the International Association of Newspapers and News Publispers believed that the events could be seen as attempts by the authorities to intimidate and pre-censor the Danish press. I believe that the issue of the independence of the media and journalistic freedom, including the uncovering of conditions which the current rulers and others with golden chains want to remain secret, is a core value for everyone who is here today. We must therefore ask ourselves whether this was an attack on the independence and freedom of the press. For the Christian Democrats and Enhedslisten, we found it so important to have it clarified and denied that we jointly decided to call this question, which is worded as follows: What will the government do to ensure the journalistic freedom of the Danish press in the light of the Danish intelligence services' tour with warnings from several editors and the summoning of a larger number of journalists as witnesses in connection with allegations of employee leaks of confidential information? We look forward to the Minister's reply and to the subsequent debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419182625	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Justice for Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419182641	Thank you for the floor. I would like to begin by saying a few words about the work of the secret services in looking after us and looking after our democracy. Intelligence agencies are set in the world to protect Denmark, the Danish people and our democracy from threats from outside or from within, to basically take care of our open and take care of our free society. In order to do so, to take care of open democracy, intelligence services need to work in the shadows. That's the paradox in this area: the defence of our open societies in certain contexts requires secrecy. But secrecy is necessary because the terrorist and espionage threat against Denmark is complex. PET is continuously initiating operations to detect and prevent possible terrorist and espionage threats against Denmark, and there are people who want to hurt us. The judgments of the last few years include: terrorist cases clearly show that PET has managed to avert a series of terrorist attacks. At the same time, foreign states' intelligence activities in Denmark have become more significant. These include espionage, influence, harassment, attempts to obtain products illegally, technology and knowledge and, in exceptional cases, liquidation attempts. Not least recently, it has become clear that the threat to our Western democracies is extremely real and that the need to protect ourselves is huge. All this advocates that we have confidence and understanding that the intelligence services must be able to carry out their work in order to look after us and be able to take care of our democracy, all the time, of course, within the legislative framework established by the Folketing. As you know, in order to ensure that the work of the secret services takes place within the framework of the law, we have a committee set up by the Folketing, the Committee on Intelligence, which aims to have an insight into precisely the services. This organisation guarantees democratic legitimacy, which is, of course, a necessity in a society governed by the rule of law. There is no doubt that freedom of expression is a core value in an open democratic society such as the Danish one. Nor is there any doubt that the press is enjoying and must enjoy increased protection of freedom of expression. At the same time, however, there should also be no doubt that the media, like the intelligence services and all of us, must also comply with the country's legislation, and that is, for me, at the heart of this issue. The question raises the calls for witnesses in some specific cases of secret intelligence leaks. I would like to start by answering that question, but what I can say is limited, for good reasons, about the specific cases. This is because, like previous governments, the government is very reluctant to comment on pending criminal proceedings, and it is also because the cases are about leaking highly confidential information from our intelligence services. I know that the National Police and the Attorney General have previously reported that the East Jutland Police, in cooperation with the Police Intelligence Service, the PET, are investigating the cases in which four people were arrested and charged with leaking from the intelligence services on 8 December last year. Various investigative steps have been taken as part of these investigations, including the summoning of several journalists by Danish daily newspapers to testify. It is actually there for me to see nothing unnecessary, strange or obnoxious in it. It is in all specific criminal proceedings, among other things. to assess the case-by-case steps that should be taken to provide information for the purposes of the investigation, including, and where appropriate, whether witnesses should be heard in the course of the investigation. It's just important for me to also say that the police can't order anyone to testify, only the court can. The question also raises meetings which have taken place between the heads of the national intelligence services and a number of managers of the country's media companies, as was mentioned earlier. On the other hand, I can say a little more about this, because it hangs, among other things. In addition to the task of the intelligence services, this is linked to the task of resolving the situation. together with the threat of foreign states targeting Denmark. PET is Denmark's National Security Authority and is responsible for preventing and investigating and countering violations of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code, including Section 109 of the Criminal Code on the unauthorised disclosure of classified information. Paragraph 109 of the Criminal Code also includes, where appropriate, the disclosure of classified confidential information which the media may provide when confidential for reasons of national security. Defence Intelligence, FE, is Denmark's foreign and military intelligence service and is responsible for the military security service. FE has e.g. to prevent and counteract threats in the form of espionage, sabotage, terrorism, and the threat from foreign states' intelligence activities against Denmark has become more marked. It is PET's assessment that there is a specific and persistent threat from foreign states' intelligence activities in Denmark. Foreign intelligence services in Denmark include: attempts to acquire knowledge. If foreign states wrongly gain access to classified or protective information, it can harm Denmark's security, it can damage our freedom of action. For example, if the information is about Denmark's relationship with other countries, the information can be used against Denmark as well as against the countries with which we cooperate. It is therefore essential for the protection of national security that highly classified information is not compromised. The information could potentially harm Denmark and its partners in the EU and NATO if it were mistransmitted. It is also essential that everyone, including various media, be aware of both the threat to Denmark and the rules on the disclosure of silenced messages when confidential for the sake of state security. PET and FE have reported that the intelligence services took the initiative to hold three meetings in December 2021. The meetings were with the managing directors of Berlingske Media and JP/Politikens Hus and the news director of Danmarks Radio. According to PET and FE, the reason for the meetings was that, in the context of a specific investigation, a suspicion had arisen that highly classified information had been wrongly disclosed. The suspicion was that highly classified information on the secret services' working methods and collaborators had been passed on to journalists by the media and the information could be disseminated via the media. So that was the background to the meetings, and I think that is actually entirely legitimate. If the intelligence services consider it practical to discuss matters relating to the security of the State and the framework for the disclosure of classified information to various media, then it naturally falls within the scope of their activities. I have also noted that the public debate has expressed surprise at the application of Article 109 of the Criminal Code. In this respect too, I think it is reasonable that the intelligence services had taken steps to draw attention to the provision rather than to wait for any damage to have been done and that the media could have committed criminal offences because of a lack of attention to the rules. In conclusion, I would like to make it quite clear once again that freedom of expression is a core value in an open and democratic society such as the Danish and the press enjoy an extended protection of freedom of expression. At the same time, journalists and the media must also comply with the country's legislation. It is important that we have a dialogue on this issue, a dialogue which respects the tasks that the authorities and the press have each set in the world to carry out. It is essential that we do not risk compromising highly classified information and ultimately risk damaging Denmark's security. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419183518	Thank you. A brief comment from the rapporteurs is now available, and the first one to ask for a brief comment is Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419183526	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech, which I think most people on long stretches will agree with. I note, however, that the Minister for Justice did not mention the protection of sources once in his speech, and I am a little sorry about that, because the protection of sources is absolutely essential for the press to be able to work freely. I'd like to ask a little philosophical question. Phil Graham, who was the owner of the Washington Post, despite pressure from the authorities in 1971, chose to publish Pentagon Papers, Katharine Gun chose to reveal the lie about the Iraq War in England in 2003. If you ask the authorities, they may have been guilty of a crime, but I guess you can discuss whether that was the case. What is the Minister of Justice's position on these matters, but I would not ask him to deal with them in such a more general way? There can be no legitimate doubt at times about what is really in the national interest: if something, for example, is going to happen. based on a lie?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419183648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419183649	Yes, there can be. That is also why the balance is due to the fact that there is substantial protection of sources and that, among other things, this is true. The general rules on professional secrecy have made it so that, even if you break the obligation of professional secrecy, if it is a matter of essential public interest, I do not remember the precise wording of the provision. But there are also other areas in which we in the Folketing have adopted regulations in common in the past, where it is said that if this type of information is involved, it can nevertheless be required by the court's instructions to provide information to journalists. So it is, of course, a balance in which, on the one hand, we have to ensure that there is protection of sources and that the press has the full opportunity to operate, including looking at the authorities in the cards and, on the other hand, there is a safeguard for our country and that our intelligence services can work as intelligence services must work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419183753	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419183756	Following on from Mr. Jens Rohde's example we can also take the Frank Grevil case in Denmark, where information from the Defence Intelligence Service was published that what was at least the general impression that was given was not correct, namely about what the Defence Intelligence Service assessed the threat of weapons of mass destruction from Iraq to be. And there it was that particular situation that Frank Grevil was convicted, but that Berlingske, who brought the information, was acquitted. So it is not always so clear in advance to decide what is right, and perhaps that is why I can agree completely with the Minister for Justice when the Minister for Justice says that there is not necessarily anything unpleasant about what has happened. I totally agree. However, the obscene thing is that there are a number of media that feel intimidated. So something has gone wrong in the conversation when they feel intimidated. In any case, I believe that we must make it clear that the crucial thing is that it has been a purely police assessment, and that is why I would just like to ask whether the government was politically involved in the decision to carry out those talks in any way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419183910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419183912	One of the instructions given to PET is to inform the Minister for Justice at any time of any significant cases in this field. I get these orientations from all sorts of different grades and information. On the internal dialogue that may exist in the government, this government has said, in line with all previous governments, that it keeps the government to itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419183941	Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419183944	Thank you. I would really like to follow up on what Mr. Søren Søndergaard mentioned, because I think we all agree that a tour to three CEOs of our largest media houses is unusual. I mean, I can't think now I'm just 57 years old, anyway. At first glance, I feel convinced that if I were head of PET or FE, I would have a little political back cover before I took such a significant step. Then the Minister for Justice was informed of the three visits before
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184032	However, on the orientation I give to the Danish Parliament on the work of the secret services and on how to work, we have, of course, adopted a special control regime, namely the Control Committee. It is, of course, where I provide information that is relevant to the parliamentary level to have and not here in the Chamber. That's right, sir. Søren Søndergaard said this is a balance. And in reality, if the Police Intelligence Service and the Defence Intelligence Service are nervous that someone is violating that balance, then it is really very sensible as an authority to take up relevant places and say: you must be aware of what is at stake here; you must be aware of what is at stake here; you must be aware of what is at stake in a regulatory regime as there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184131	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister for Justice for now and move on to the negotiations with the general rules for short remarks. The first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184148	Thank you. Today's debate is about the freedom of expression of the press and how we guarantee it, and hopefully we can all quickly agree in this Chamber that our constitutional freedom of expression is one of the great foundations on which we build our free Danish democracy. Yes, it is the whole prerequisite for us to have a free society with freedom of assembly and association and open democratic conversations across the board. There is no doubt that the press has a special role in this regard and therefore has an increased freedom of expression, while, of course, it has to work within existing legislation. But today's debate is not quite as simple as that, because it is about the freedom of expression of the press specifically in relation to our intelligence services, which have the serious task of protecting us and our Danish democratic values from threats from known as well as unknown enemies. Perhaps, especially during this time, we are made unpleasantly aware that there are foreign powers out there that do not necessarily want us well, and then it is crucial that we ensure that our intelligence services have the best opportunities to solve the tasks of keeping Denmark safe. And there must now, by its very nature, be a hidden space in which the intelligence services can work without the general public being able to keep up with it. This does not, of course, mean that intelligence services are excluded from the rule of law and should not operate within Danish law or be democratically anchored. Of course they must be, and so are they here in the Folketing. In order for the intelligence services to be able to solve the serious and crucial tasks we have left to them, they may need to ensure that very confidential information about the working methods of the services and partners is not sent out to the general public. Because no one in this realm has any interest in weakening our intelligence services or in their relationship with partners. Today's question then refers to some very specific cases where intelligence services have had meetings with the media as well as to witness calls in specific cases of leaking confidential information. The Minister of Justice has explained in detail the parts of the specific cases which he can take into account. I would therefore just like to conclude my speech by emphasising once again that freedom of expression is vital for our democratic society, that it must be protected and that the press plays an important role in this regard in the context of existing legislation. At the same time, our intelligence services must be able to carry out their crucial role in protecting Denmark and protecting the Danes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184434	Thank you. There are some brief comments. The first one's for sir. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184438	One feels completely devoted to such an American society, where the end justifies the means in that context. Again, I do not think anyone disagrees with the importance and so on of the work of the secret services. But secret services must also work under the legislative conditions that apply. There I will return to the protection of sources and ask Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg, whether he will state from the platform that neither the Defence Intelligence Service nor any other executive authority has any power or right to press or seek to compromise the protection of their sources by journalists.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184544	Thank you for the question. I do not, of course, think, without the need to make comparisons with American courts and such a thing, that there is something strange about the fact that the police, if they think in the context of a specific criminal case, that it makes sense to call some witnesses who might or might not be able to clarify anything, do so. I don't think there's anything strange about that. I also think that we should assume and assume that if it is the case that you invite someone for a cup of coffee, or if you consider by the police that you should call some witnesses, then you do so on the basis of some in-depth considerations that it is right to do so. So I am confident that our authorities have done so in this case too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184628	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184631	Well, I think that there is such a reason to swing up in this discussion, because it is actually about some basic fundamental premises for how our society works and how you look at it. We have a press that has an extensive degree of freedom, also to use sources, without compromising it. Will the Social Democrats from the platform here say that it would be no wonder that that is how I should understand Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184723	Now I have not been present in those meetings. It could almost sound like Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde had been. But I'm just saying that when you call a meeting, or when you go out for a cup of coffee, I guess you do it because there's a reason. That's what I'm saying here from the platform. And I have no reason to doubt that our authorities have done so. Then I think the Minister has explained very well that our journalists are also protected, even more protected, and neither has the Social Democrats any opinion on that should be in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184759	The next brief remark is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184802	Thank you. I have no reason to doubt the noble motives of the intelligence service for what they did, as the Socialist rapporteur mentions. I mean, how am I supposed to feel? I haven't. But if the starting point is the noble motives, can we not get a complaint from the Socialist rapporteur that it has apparently been understood that way by some of those who have been contacted with the best intentions that they are being intimidated? Danish media call it a slippery slope. So, is it not regrettable that this has led to some media feeling that they have been intimidated and that it is therefore with the risk that they will hold back more from what else they would have done in pursuing completely legitimate journalistic purposes? Is it not regrettable that it has ended in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184901	You can always be sad that someone feels that you should have done something differently. After all, I have not been part of the conversations that have taken place, neither those that some people in this room have had, nor some others have had, but I really think that the Minister also mentioned the fact that it has been pointed out that there were some provisions in the legislation which they in the media and also the newspapers should be aware of. The fact that you feel a little offended by it is something to be said about, but I really think that as an authority you have been out to mark and say that you also have to be aware of the fact that there is some legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184952	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419184953	But does the Socialist rapporteur not take the problem of some media feeling that they have been intimidated by this, that is to say that they have been forced on some self-care which they do not think is reasonable? Now we can hope that these media just don't care about it and say it doesn't matter, but if the feeling they express is real, then I think it's a little unfortunate when we talk about freedom of the press when we talk about freedom of speech. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185030	It may be that I'm a hard dog, that is, I don't think it's intimidating. I have also tried to explain that I do not think there is anything strange about it. But now there are two elements to it. There is the part about going out and drinking coffee and pointing out what some provisions of the criminal code are, you might have to remember that you have to stay within the room again, I would say that I have not been in the room, so I cannot specifically say what is being referred to and then there is the part about witness interviews in connection with criminal proceedings. And there is nothing strange about the fact that the police are addressing some witnesses who may or may not know anything. The police have a duty to do so, and it is their job to do so. Therefore, there is no reason to doubt that one should have had other motives than to do one's police work, even in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185118	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185121	I do not, of course, know what the rapporteur is saying strangely, but can we at least get the Social Democrats to confirm that it is extremely unusual for the police to turn to journalists in order to get them to reveal who their sources are?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185142	But I don't know if they did. I mean, I haven't been to the room from where Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen apparently refers to what the police have asked for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185154	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185156	Neither have I, for good reason, but the journalists in question have said that this was the reason for the request, and now I am not talking about the executive directors. But the journalists have told us that the reason the police wanted to talk to them was to know who were the sources of the stories they had brought. If the rapporteur does not know this, it is extremely unusual and to such an extent that one could go and use the word strangely. At least there must be very special reasons for doing so. Just as others are protected by the witness exemption rules, so are journalists. Wasn't there anything that in any way caused the Social Democrats to open their eyes when they were presented with these situations, or was it just that well, yes, but there's nothing unusual about that, because that's the way it is? Or what was that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185247	No, it's just like sir. After all, Jan E. Jørgensen asked me to confirm that what had happened in the room was what Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen recounted, and I just said that I haven't been there, and therefore for good reasons I can't reproduce it. Yeah, maybe it's a little special. Maybe you could say it is. But I am really very happy about the intelligence services that we have in Denmark. And if you do that, then there is just the paradox that you must also accept that there are some things in the intelligence services that are going on in a closed and confidential space for security reasons, and I therefore have nothing but confidence in our authorities and in the work they are doing. So there is no reason to use the opportunity to cast doubt on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185332	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185336	Thank you. When the Minister says that there was probably nothing awkward about the so-called coffee visit, what does the Socialist rapporteur think? Well, you can't get the intelligence service in consultation... that's not possible... and that's why we have the control committees, and I have no idea what they're doing, but they're doing their job, I guess. But could it instead be that you could ask those who are in the Control Committee: would you check whether there was something real or whether they went completely wrong on this issue? Or should one just say that it was probably nothing and that we then trample on? Or should we also pay attention? Because there are some people who have an insight into it and an understanding of it, who say that we have some of the most closed intelligence services in this world where the Control Committee can only see a small corner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185447	Yes, sometimes a secrecy is then the prerequisite for having an open and free society, where intelligence services do everything they can to look after the Danes and take care of our security. As I said in my speech, it is also important that we have a democratic body such as the Control Committee, which is there, and therefore I do not know what is being informed of there either for good reasons. But I think that, if you have any good suggestions, you should address them to such a place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185513	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185516	Well, sometimes I wonder if it's worth it. Because in the books I have read and in the article in the paper they write that it is the secret service that decides what such a committee of control must see, and I wonder whether we should look at the rules of the secret service? Because I am happy that we have an intelligence service in many contexts, but there are also situations where I think: why should they interfere? But it's a story to itself. I just remind you that maybe we should be sure that this system works. Of course, there are not many others besides those who have sat as politicians in what can say, and they must not, and what do we do?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185604	I kind of get it, sir. Christian Juhl's question and perhaps in fact also curiosity about what is going on in the Control Committee. But what I just have to repeat, which is also what is special when it comes to our intelligence services, is that there is a reason for this to be done in secrecy and confidentiality and that there is a reason why those discussions should not be taken in public space and in all sorts of other places, and that is why there is a need for confidentiality. But I think it's easy to think about whether you have the perfect constellation... I don't want to say that I can stand up here and guarantee that you have been and then you have to discuss it, for example. must make PET laws or other things elsewhere where to look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185656	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419185712	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Thank you to the Christian Democrats and the Enhedslisten for raising an important debate. It certainly does not belong to everyday life that articles in the newspaper say that the chiefs of the country's two intelligence services have been on a tour of the executive directors of three large media houses to draw their attention to the fact that it is believed that articles brought in those places are covered by section 109 of the penal code and can trigger prisons for up to 12 years. And I understand that after such a conversation, although accompanied by a cup of coffee, you may feel intimidated as a mediaman. Source protection is at the heart of a free society like the Danish one with freedom of expression. If, as a source, you cannot be sure that you can go to the press with your information without subsequently risking prosecution, then the protection of sources is worth nothing and important stories will not come out. That is why we have source protection, and it is therefore worrying that neither the Social Democrat rapporteur nor the Minister for Justice mention source protection in their presentation. Priests, psychologists, doctors, lawyers and, therefore, journalists are also subject to the witness exemption rules, which mean that they can only exceptionally be required to testify, and in that case this can only be done if a court has approved it. It may well be that we do not find the word strangely applicable to what has happened, but it is certainly very unusual and atypical, and that is why we are pleased that the government has agreed to give a more detailed explanation of the background to this trip. More about this in the end when I read out the proposal for adoption. I do not know how to say this, but the Left has great faith in our intelligence services, perhaps even more confidence than the government has, at least when the intelligence services come up with an assessment that the government does not like, because the assessment does not fit in with the government's political hugs. Then we have a Minister for Justice who has said in consultation: we are not obliged to conform to what a board might think. It is a relatively arrogant and patronizing dissavouration of our intelligence services. And when the intelligence services come up with an assessment that fits into the political hugs of the government, then there is a completely different attitude to the intelligence services, and then it is quite different words of praise that come about our intelligence services. It's no good using the intelligence services politically, according to what fits into your hugs. We're worried about that from the Left. I am not going to go into the three cases, which are probably the basis for this tour, but they are certainly three issues which concern us in the Left and which we look forward to being thoroughly clarified. We do not know what is up and down yet, but, as I have said, we are pleased that the Social Democrats support the text of the adoption which has been written and which hopefully means that we will not all become a little cleverer, because that is not the way we usually do it, but at least those who sit on the Control Committee and those who are fortunate enough to be leaders of a party. I would like to read out a text of adoption which has the support of the Left, of course it would be strange if it were I who read it out the Social Democratic Party, the Conservative People's Party, the Christian Democrats, the Enhedslisten, the Liberal Alliance, the New Civil, Socialist People's Party and the Free Greens [as well as the Radical Left]. It reads as follows: Suggested adoption The protection of classified information, which could harm Denmark and international partners if it is unlawfully disclosed, is important. Parliament notes that journalists and media must comply with the country's legislation and that it must be a matter for the courts to verify. At the same time, the Folketing notes that it is at the heart of the press's exercise of its freedom of expression that sources can be secure in terms of protection and that, as a general rule, journalists are subject to the exemption rules under Section 172 of the Code of Civil Procedure and the Supreme Court ruling in the Leakage Case in 2011. The Danish Parliament considers that the visits of the secret services to several editors and attempts to get journalists to give a statement are so atypical that the Danish Parliament calls on the government to give an explanation. This could be done by the Control Committee and the circle of party leaders so that any confidential information is not compromised. ▪ V 67.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190214	Thank you for that and the proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party. Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190235	Thank you. At the moment, you just have to look east to see a country where it is really difficult to be a journalist and a citizen when it comes to freedom of expression and freedom of the press. Fortunately, this is different in Denmark, where freedom of expression and the press is extensive, and it is very important to safeguard, just as protection of sources is incredibly central in the freedom of expression and the press. A free and vibrant press is important in a democracy, and it must inflate those in power and verify its decisions. We acknowledge in the SF that some knowledge has to be reserved for intelligence services alone. We want strong intelligence services which can safeguard the security of the Danes, which is why they cannot, for good reasons, put everything forward. But we also want to protect both the employees of the intelligence services and the citizens at all, and that is why we have always been concerned in the SF with strong supervision. Because in a democratic society where not everything can be publicised, there must also be others who must, in confidence, check and have the best conditions to check that everything is running according to the book. The backdrop for today's debate is that, according to the press, the secret services contacted various media houses in December that they could be punished for revealing classified material. I guess we still don't know exactly what's up and down in that case, but we've seen that the Danish Media and the Journalist League have been worried about the inquiries. Therefore, it is also a dilemma to comment on this. Normally, we in the SF are concerned that preventive talks are good at preventing crime and informing people that they are on rocking ground before they are guilty of anything, nor do we see any problem in the fact that intelligence services can have dialogue with the media. At the same time, however, we also have a look to see that a preventive conversation can be seen as cross-border and intimidating by a media house. Because what are they gonna do with that information? And can this prevent them from writing important stories that we would also like to have a debate on in a democracy? It is therefore not without problems and not easy to clarify the matter in a debate like that today without access to all the information. We have to say that we have to go more in principle to this. Of course, the press must have a high degree of freedom of the press and freedom of expression, regardless of whether the intelligence services would like their affairs to be debated. The press must, of course, comply with Danish legislation, and in the end only the courts can decide whether you are on the right side of the law, including for the press. I know that this, on the one hand, and on the other hand, response may not fully meet the need for clear answers, but the issue is difficult to debate because we do not have access to all the information contained in it. We must have confidence in the supervision of the intelligence services, and the courts must ultimately decide whether the press is complying with the rules. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190601	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190605	When you are as old as I am, you have to say that something has happened to SF over the years and perhaps just in relation to intelligence services and their doings and barn. I almost feel like singing the old Kim Larsen song Grandpa, put on your teeth because they're completely gone, but maybe it's about that... No, I just don't know what to say when I hear SF talk about this, and there I just have to ask Mrs. Anne Valentina Berthelsen, when she sings so loudly with our intelligence services: How does SF really think it's going?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190656	Well, we like a lot of stretches that it doesn't work out the way it should. That is also why we have talked so much about stronger supervision, which has access to enter not only personal data but in total. This is also why we have talked about external whistleblower schemes, both for PET and for FE. We find it extremely worrying in a case like this that people feel intimidated in the media, but it is not black and white, precisely because one must also be able to work in confidence. I find this extremely difficult, and that is why we must let the courts decide who is right in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190727	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190729	I assume that we agree that the protection of sources is so central to the functioning of the press, why it has also been established in section 172 of the Code of Procedure that we should all agree that it should never be compromised by secret services or by police forces, and therefore comes with the answer that Mrs Valentina Berthelsen gives me here, the natural question: why would SF not be in the joint proposal for adoption and the joint request to the government to ensure that this question is precisely clarified?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190821	I'm not quite sure what, sir. Jens Rohde means, 'cause we're in the read text. Jens Rohde It is after saying no several times). Third Vice-President The rapporteur has the floor). We are in, and I am not the one who has negotiated it, I cannot say how it has been, but I can see that the circle of parties has expanded dramatically over the last few hours and days, so surely there have been some adjustments which make it a little more appropriate to the situation, including the nuances.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190854	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190857	I would just like to know briefly whether the SF rapporteur believes that supervision has the good opportunities that the rapporteur says they should have, so that they have strong and good opportunities. That is how I think the rapporteur said it. Do they have it today? And what can we do if they don't?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190918	No. As I also said to Mr. Jens Rohde just before, that is why we in the SF have talked so much about strengthening the supervision of our intelligence services so that they can not only process personal data but can get into everything. This also applies to the external whistleblower arrangements that we have proposed and which should apply to both FE and PET. So we certainly do not think that they have the opportunities they should have today, nor do the citizens have the opportunities they should have today, in order to have the ears of our intelligence services whenever necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190952	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419190953	I myself have once been given the right to come in to see a small corner of the intelligence service. It was a great experience. There's another question that's been nagging me a little bit. It was actually meant for Jan E. Jørgensen, but he was so fast down the platform that I couldn't make it. But if a current Minister for Defence and former Minister for Defence should have waived his immunity in order to be able to appear before the court, and if not the Danish Parliament could get to know the accusation, can we seriously say: yes, we are voting for his immunity to be waived? Or what would the rapporteur think of this? 'Cause I'm not sure how the hell you deal with a situation like that if you get in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419191037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419191040	It is also a complex question, and I really think it is very good that Mr. Christian Juhl asks about this, because we believe that if we are to be able to vote on immunity in that case, we must also have a different kind of insight into what the matter is about. The question is how this can be done, and I do not have the final answer to that. Nor have we discussed it in the SF group yet, but can we not give more information than we have had access to so far if it comes to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419191105	Thank you for that and thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten, who is also rapporteur for the questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419191125	Yes, here I am just Enhedslisten's rapporteur. But we have been involved in convening this debate to have a talk about how the government and the Folketing best protect the freedom of the press, even when it comes to complex and highly confidential matters relating to intelligence services. Because that's what we're talking about here today. The starting point is that a number of editor-in-chiefs were sought out by FE and PET, who subsequently conducted interviews with the editors who agreed. Several subsequently stated that they saw it as both intimidating and, in principle, wrong with such interference. So an uncertainty was created about what they felt they could write. And for us in the Enhedslisten it is absolutely essential that we do not normalize a practice or culture in which it is perceived in such a way that intelligence services can intimidate hired journalists and editors or try to influence the editorial line, such as whether it is not a really good experience or a real intention on the part of the intelligence services. That's kind of the point of this. That is also why I have to say that I think that the socialist and, as such, the government's line is somewhat backwards, because the mere fact that some people go out and say that they think there is a problem here means that there is a problem. Then you have to discuss how to avoid this problem. I understand that you cannot stand on Parliament's platform and discuss it; it may well be that some conversations need to be made about how you can do this in another way, so we have some sort of development in it. But you just can't pretend nothing and say, "Oh, we're moving on. Because the problem is that if somebody feels intimidated, we already have a tiny bit and I admit that this is not a huge case................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Another point I raised in my question to the Minister is that of course we are also very interested in whether these representations have been made on the initiative of the prosecution or whether there has been political interference. One thing is that the prosecution and PET have thought that this is what they are doing, and then maybe things have gone a little wrong, and then you have to evaluate it, but it is quite wrong if there has been political interference in it. In other words, if there is a political link that has somehow wanted this or promoted it here, and now I am not talking about a passive orientation and then noted that this is what is happening, but if there has been that political interference, it was something that we would like to have an answer to. Of course, there is a lot of uncertainty about the process, and we are particularly concerned to clarify whether the government really believes that it has been satisfactory and that it sets a standard for how our intelligence services should act in relation to the free press in the future. We fully agree that there is a need for a high level of confidentiality when it comes to specific pending cases. That is clear, but it must not mean that it is normalized, what has been so atypical in this case and which has led some to see it as intimidating. I think that some important questions still remain. Does the government consider that the intelligence services in this particular case acted appropriately? Did the intelligence services act on a police decision, or was it influenced by political interference? And what does the government intend to do to ensure that the press can exercise its freedom of expression, that sources can be secure in terms of protection, and that journalists are, as a rule, subject to the witness exemption rules in accordance with Article 172 of the Code of Procedure and the Supreme Court judgment in the 2011 leakage case? Those questions are central and I do not really think we have received an answer to them yet today. We want answers to them today. But we also have to say that it does not really seem that the government wants to do so, and that is why we have, what should we say, reached a broad compromise that, if it does not come forward here, if it cannot be presented here, it can at least be presented in the Control Committee and in a circle of party leaders, where we can then discuss whether this has been an appropriate way. The compromise contained in the proposal for adoption can be supported by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419191642	Thank you. I see somebody's been pushing in. It's sir. Peter Skaarup. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419191652	Thank you. I thought it was an exciting speech made by the rapporteur. There was one thing, sir. Søren Søndergaard said, as I just got a little curious about, the question of possible political interference or management, or what one could imagine, in relation to this talk with the media that PET has made. And I'd like to know if Mr. Søren Søndergaard has some knowledge or belief that there has been such political interference. After all, we know that the old defence minister who has now resigned had to approve a press release about PET at a time that she then just let pass, and that helped to start part of this case perhaps we do not know that. But there has certainly been political interference from the start of there. But Mr. Søren Søndergaard any belief, thought or knowledge of something we need to know, it will be exciting to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419191752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419191757	Well, now I want to say: in general, the answer is no. But it may well be that I have to elaborate immediately: No, I have not, but I think it is a little important to make a distinction between asking the government to go into all sorts of considerations they have had with the intelligence service about one thing and the other; that is not what we are asking for and that they are just clearly rejecting it: no, we have not interfered in that matter. I do not think that is a problem for a government to do that. I do not think it is a problem for the government to state that they have not intervened politically in this matter. After all, we all know that there are some things that are being presented at a level where politicians sit. That's the way it is. And I will be the last to criticise a government for following an attitude that comes from, for example. a prosecutor's office. I think it would be very unfortunate if you didn't. But then you have to be able to go out and say: we have not interfered politically in this matter. If the Minister will not answer that question here, then the Minister will answer it to a group of party leaders at any given time. And then I hope that's a good answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419191906	There are no more brief comments, even from other rapporteurs. Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419191925	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by saying that this is one of the more surreal debates I have participated in here in the Folketing. Because, on the one hand, we have all been able to follow the media coverage and, on the Conservative side, we recognise that it can of course be a bit atypical or, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen says, unusual or perhaps even strange, that the intelligence service has visited editors, whom we are now talking about here today. But the bottom line is, of course, that none of us are here today, except perhaps the Minister of Justice, I do not know who knows exactly what has been going on and why. That is why my speech will not be super long, because I am not going to guess different things for which I have no basis. I don't think I share the assumptions that Enhedslisten suggests. And I deliberately use the words assumptions and suggest, for as Mr. Søren Søndergaard himself has just replied to Dansk Folkeparti, Enhedslisten has nothing concrete where they say that there is a smoking gun. What is also the important bottom line here is that, as Conservatives have always said, we have incredibly much confidence in our intelligence services, and we have continued to do so. Being able to take care of Denmark also includes being able to operate in a confidential space in order to protect our very freedom and our democracy. Then several people have raised the issue of source protection, and we fully agree with that. This must, of course, be respected; it is one of the most central issues in the way our media work. But this is also a balancing act between state security and, above all, trust in our intelligence services. In fact, I think it was Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen who has now gone on to say that this is very, very difficult to comment on. However, I would like to conclude by saying that we are satisfied with the text adopted by a fortunately very broad majority of parties and which obliges the government to present an explanation in the Control Committee, which is, of course, the confidential area in which matters of this nature should be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192133	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192136	Well, that's just because I'm mystified about how the Conservative rapporteur can interpret what I said as a criticism of the intelligence services. Well, it was the desire to be 100 percent. I am sure that there was no political interference, as Mr. Marcus Knuth sees as a criticism of the intelligence services? I would almost regard it as quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192201	Well, then I misunderstood, sir. Søren Søndergaard. I just think that there is such criticism in the air that you do not really want to put your finger on. Well, we're sitting here for a reason after all. But the bottom line is the bottom line, and that's what I say over and over again that we don't know what's been going on. Therefore, it is a little difficult to have a thorough dialogue about this in what is all else a very, very open forum when it is the case that this discussion can best take place in the Control Committee. And I say this with the knowledge that Conservatives do not currently sit in the Control Committee. I wish we did. And that's why it's conjecture. But if I've misunderstood, sir... Søren Søndergaard, I regret that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192238	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192242	I have to say, I didn't hear any assumptions from sir. Søren Søndergaard I heard a lot of questions. And I think it is appropriate to clarify these questions, because there is actually a reason why we are making this proposal for adoption. I have, of course, negotiated this with Conservatives about what we should end up with. But that is precisely to clarify it. And that's where I'd just like to have Mr. Simpson... Marcus Knuth confirms that it is in the Control Committee and all
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192332	And I wholeheartedly support that. And that is precisely the point: we can have a good discussion here, but we are not going to get to the bottom of this. We do that in the Control Committee and I apologize for leaving it out before the circle of party leaders.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192344	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192346	But that is why the debate is so important also to conduct in public so that the public and the press can see that we actually take it seriously when something is going on that is unusual or strange. You have to be an escapist if you don't think there have been some things going on in this whole matter in relation to the former Minister of Defence, etc., where you are so full of question marks. And it is very nice that you have a forum where you can ask these questions, and then we send out a clear signal that, of course, we are also watching what our competent intelligence services are doing, because that is part of a democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192424	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192426	I don't want this to be a debate about semantics, that is, something strange, unusual, atypical. But the bottom line is precisely that we wholeheartedly support the fact that this discussion, explaining it, calls it what you want to do in the Control Committee and, with Mr. Jens Rohde's correction, of course also in the circle of party leaders, and we support that wholeheartedly, and that is of course why we are in this text.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192450	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192452	Well, in the Left, we share confidence in the intelligence services, but the real question is whether we trust a government that uses intelligence services as it pleases. In other words, when there is an assessment that does not fit in with the political struggle of the government, the Minister for Justice says: we are not obliged to conform to what a government might think. Does the Conservative People's Party share the view that it is a strange way of doing this and guided by what the intelligence services are making of recommendations?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192534	We're back in semantics. I think I used the word atypical. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen uses the word weird. In general, we see a government which, compared to many parts of the way it manages its responsibilities, can just go back to the whole mink case, causing us to stand shoulder to shoulder with the Left in relation to the criticism of the government. But unfortunately I come back to the same point as before... exactly about this discussion about what has happened between the intelligence service and these editors, we don't know what has been said. I use the word atypical, and Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen calls it weird. I don't think we're so far apart.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192611	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192613	Well, that's not what I asked. Well, I asked about the time when the intelligence services made an assessment of the dangers of the children in Syria, about if you took them home now, versus if you left them in the prison camps. There the intelligence service considered that it would be far more dangerous to leave the children because there was a risk that they might be kidnapped by IS and then come back many years later with a Danish passport in one hand and a bomb manual in the other and thus pose a far greater danger to Denmark's safety than if they were taken home immediately. It was then that the Minister for Justice said at that time: we are not obliged to conform to what a governing body might think. Does the rapporteur share the view that it is a shell and a waltz with recommendations from the secret service which, to put it mildly, are unfortunate?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192705	I didn't realize that was what Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen referred to. As I recall, I think it was the Foreign Minister who got a nose precisely because the government had withheld that information. I think that was with the support of a broad majority in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192720	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419192738	Thank you to the promoters of this request. This is of course a very interesting matter and we have also had the opportunity to respond to a number of press enquiries about the matter. Because it's natural that media that gets inquiries of this nature, maybe a little distracts themselves and asks around whether it was quite the way it should be. I would like to start somewhere else and say that we all probably agree that freedom of the press for our media is absolutely crucial to how free a society we actually have. If you now look at Russia, which has banned the media from referring to the war in Ukraine as a war, it is a bit of a horror that the press is threatened with silence and propaganda and that people have limited access to independent media, independent news. After all, our intelligence services in Denmark are absolutely crucial to our security in this country. Their work means more than most of us ever realize. And it is my impression that our intelligence services are doing what it takes in this country to ensure the security and security of all of us as citizens. I am also confident, as is the case with the Danish People's Party, that they will not go beyond what is necessary in the intelligence services and that they will respect the important values that they have just set in the world to protect, namely our essential values. I would like to say that, of course, the work of the secret services must not be at the expense of the free press, but at the same time I think we can agree that there may be some things, some information on matters that may be dangerous to have brought into the media if, for example, the intelligence services are involved. is in the process of an action or investigation of a case. Then there is a fine balance where intelligence services can, on the one hand, carry out their important work without leaking information in the media about it, and, on the other hand, the media can also inform Danes about what is going on in society without experiencing any pressure from the authorities and intelligence services. But in reality it also says that there is not necessarily any evil in the fact that an intelligence service is in contact with the media. It can actually help the media. The question or problem may arise more if one is threatened or forced in some way, and there I think the media in Denmark know how to turn away from it. They have good experience of this, so they have not been able to do so in this case too. With that, I would just like to say that on this point I very much agree with the Socialist rapporteur that they are doing their job and have done their job sensibly in this matter. But we must, of course, be vigilant, and this debate is also an expression of this. And then we need to know one thing: that there are incredibly many skilled employees in the intelligence services who are doing everything they can to protect us from terrorism, from Islamism and all the negative and evil things that threaten us. We must support those employees; they do not have the means to defend themselves, nor do the intelligence services always do. You cannot make bombastic statements that contradict what we come up with in here as politicians. Therefore, we really have a job here in trying to back them up as far as we can at all, and the Danish People's Party would very much like to contribute to that. That is also what I have said: we have to back them up and stand behind them, for they have so far done the work they are set to do, incredibly well, and we have been spared in Denmark from major terrorist acts other than someone who has cost human lives, and we should be glad to be happy about that. So thank you to the intelligence services for their work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193202	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193205	Yeah, well, there's no one who doesn't want a good intelligence service. Nobody's pointing fingers. But there is nothing, nor any government, nor what the government chooses to call the various things that should not be subject to democratic control. I think the debate is very much about intelligence services and that they should be allowed to work in closed rooms and they take care of us and all of this. Yeah, but the press is looking out for us, too. It may be that we do not always feel it as politicians, but they do. Because the press has to look at the rulers, for example. Our intelligence services do the thing and the barn, over their shoulders, when something's starting to look weird. Will Mr. Peter Skaarup did not admit that it was an unusual act for journalists to be summoned and asked them to reveal their sources, that meetings with the editors-in-chief were held in this particular case?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193319	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193321	Yes, I would like to admit that is unusual in a country like Denmark. But it may also be that there has been a reason for it, and it may be that there have been reasons for what we do not know, and there is not necessarily anything wrong with the fact that we do not know about them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193338	Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193341	But then it is appropriate that you have a Parliament I assume that we agree that the Defence Intelligence Service does not rank over the Danish Parliament which says that we ask the government to deal with this; we take a critical look at that. Because, just as we would like to have skilled intelligence services, we are also on the side of journalists' source protection, just as it is described in the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193415	Yeah, 100%. Then there is the question of whether the best tool is a question debate. I think the question debate is actually coming because there has been a recent process in which the government has played an unfortunate role. I think there are a lot of people in this Parliament who agree on that. It is not certain that the Social Democratic Party agrees with this, but there are many others who agree that what the Secretary of Defense was doing in sending employees home and not offending a press release sent to the Ministry of Defence at the time was not so clever. I think we are quite a lot of people in here who think so, and that is why one can of course be a little tired of the government on that point. In general, however, I think we should be satisfied with the intelligence services we have and also be satisfied that there is parliamentary control, including a question debate. Fine for us. We just hadn't raised it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193459	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193501	I hope, then, that we all agree that it is unfortunate if the media in Denmark feel intimidated by a public authority. But then it is not always as simple as they seem to have done what is actually responsible. I remember what was called a Tibet case, where it was some cops who were responsible for unconstitutional acts, and I thank anyone who made an effort to get an investigation to the bottom of it that showed that the officers were in fact innocent and that the responsibility was quite different. Do you, sir? Peter Skaarup, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193551	A hundred percent. And I think that Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party were the only ones who tried time and again when the case started, to get the then Minister of Justice Morten Bødskov in consultation and to get some answers out, and we also stood together, I think, about getting the Commission study no. One and two now and here, which fortunately seemed to have reached some of the core of the problem, namely that it was not precisely the two policemen or more who were responsible, but it was perhaps somewhere else over in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But it's a matter for itself. But of course, and as I said, we have also been wary of what the government set in motion in the Ministry of Defence, which we do not really know the consequences of and how far-reaching they are. We have been wary of that. But that does not change the fact that, in relation to this, we basically do not know what has happened in those rooms where there has been a meeting, and there it is as if there are some in here who put it out like that, as if we all know what they have been intimidated, they have been threatened, it is terrible. But we basically don't know if they've been. We basically know nothing more than what the media have written, and is that so right, or is there more under it than what we know about?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193701	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193703	That is absolutely right. We don't know what's right. We know that some say they feel intimidated. And what can we do? We can look into it, and that is what we are doing. And we have found that it cannot be investigated in the open. All right, then we have made a compromise on how it can then be examined, namely in the Control Committee, and I suppose it can always do so, and then in a meeting of the party leaders. Isn't that good?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193736	I shall be the last person who stands and is against raising debates or investigating things or gaining second opinion or parliamentary control over the government that is now sitting, perhaps especially the one who is sitting now, because there have been some snitches on other fronts, let me just mention the mink case, but we will take that another time. So of course it's okay. I'm just hearing somebody say things today, like you know everything about what's happened inside those rooms over there with the editors, executive directors, or whatever they are, but we basically don't know that, and we're having a hard time knowing that, right? We don't know much about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193812	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193815	No, we do not, but we know what the people themselves have said about the meetings and how they have experienced it themselves. But that was not the reason why I asked for the floor. I just wanted to ask why the Danish People's Party did not want to be involved in the joint motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193835	I can tell you that. There have also been a number of drafts by the rapporteur, and I think that every time I have seen a draft, one way or another between the lines has been that PET is tired, they are hard to dance with, they are heavy to dance with, and what they have done is wrong. It's been between the lines. Now we have come up with something that we are not co-sponsors of. I will not rule out that we can support it, but the thinking of it is that the Control Committee and the party leaders should be informed about this matter. We are not in a situation where we can see that this has not already happened. Several parties in here are not members of the Control Committee, but it happens to be the Danish People's Party, but there is, of course, confidentiality about what is going on. It is not really what we are in the world for to come up with today, when we are pre-sighting that they have not been informed. So I would actually rather have chosen a different approach and a different one, but, as I have said, we will assess it just when the estate is settled and we will have to vote, if we may end up saying yes to it anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193948	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419193951	It's almost going to sound like the fewer questions you ask to the intelligence service, the better. I mean, when you decide in an open society that you have to have an intelligence service that has a certain kind of secrecy in Denmark's case a great kind of secrecy, does it not seem right to say that if there is something atypical, then of course, as politicians, we should also be reasonably sure that things are not going quite wrong? I mean, intelligence agencies everywhere in the world are surrounded by myths, but there are also many stories that one has used one's secrecy to some sort of powerfulness, and that is why it is our duty as politicians at all times to say: any doubt must of course be cleared away, so that we have a hundred percent confidence in our intelligence services, because we need that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419194047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419194049	It is possible that Mr. Christian Juhl feels that when there is something atypical that we hear about from the intelligence services, we have to ask about it, and then we have to have all the facts on the table and perhaps also a little more than that, but we do not feel that way in the Danish People's Party. Well, we have a lot of faith in our authorities, not least the police, police intelligence and defence intelligence, and we also have a belief that those employees are doing their utmost and their best to protect us all from terror, from evil around the world. So we must have great faith in them, but that does not necessarily mean that we cannot ask questions about things that are going on. This must be the case in a democratic society. So, of course, we agree, but inflation in questioning almost everything the police and police intelligence are doing is out of the question, and I sometimes think that Enhedslisten is too violent to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419194150	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419194152	Now I can settle for the facts, there are no problems in that for me, nor do I need to have all the facts, but I think that when it comes to state institutions of all kinds, too, people who look after our children, the police, the defence, the intelligence service or the research units... we, as politicians, have formally seen a responsibility for the proper running of things. That is, of course, what we are elected for, and that is why we are voting for or against various proposals. Therefore, if it looks strange and if anyone feels intimidated, regardless of whether it concerns those dealing with children, the press or others, I think that we have a duty to be able to answer fairly safely yes or no to the fact that things are okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419194241	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419194243	Yes, I totally agree with 99.9%. of the various institutions, as Mr. Christian Juhl would like to exercise parliamentary control over, but just as far as our intelligence services are concerned, there is the small thing, but if they should have any opportunity to find out who is threatening us, then those who threaten us should not know that they are being watched, should they? That is where I think the chain sometimes jumps off at Enhedslisten, where you go far too far in the criticism, skin braiding and suspicion of PET and the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419194320	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Peter Skaarup. And then it is the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party, Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419194331	Danish intelligence services, Danish defence and Danish police protect our democracy from internal and external enemies. They are our security and security that we can live and express ourselves freely, and that also applies to the security of freedom of the media and freedom of the press. The matter we are debating today is, for good reasons, surrounded by a high degree of confidentiality. Politically speaking, without having been present at meetings between the media and intelligence services, it is easy either to speculate or to have a very fundamental debate on the balance between freedom of the press on the one hand and the ability of intelligence services to look after Denmark on the other. I am therefore pleased that the Minister has agreed to keep party leaders and the Control Committee confidential, and I look forward to that information. With these words, I must say that New citizens support the text of the joint adoption which was read out by the rapporteur of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Jan E. Jørgensen. And I should also like to welcome from the Radical Left, who unfortunately could not be here today, and say that they also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419194445	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Then it is the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go, sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419194500	Thank you for the floor. On an overall level, there is not very much disagreement in the House on this matter. People say in slightly different words that the starting point of a society like ours is freedom of expression. By law, it can be restricted because of some factual circumstances. You can't lie publicly about others in a way that's liberating. You can't break your confidentiality when you're a doctor or a priest, and you can't reveal secrets that compromise the security of the state. So we all agree on that. It has been said here from the platform and everyone says that there is a legitimate need for intelligence and that it is a threat to the security of the state to compromise the intelligence services and the way they work. So where the disagreement begins is how to weigh all these considerations. It is clear that the sources of the press must enjoy protection laid down in our legislation, and it is clear that it is unacceptable to put pressure on editors in chief to undermine source protection or freedom of the press. That is why this is a very good debate and I am glad that we have the debate and I am glad that we have a text for adoption with a very broad support. However, I would like to use my speaking time to draw attention to something that the other rapporteurs have not mentioned and on which we also need to have some sort of debate. It is the case that there is a very strong agreement, not disagreement, but agreement between what is stamped confidentially and what is found in open sources. I say this on the basis of very long personal experience, for almost all my studies at the university I worked at the Department of Defence's Communications Centre. There I had the opportunity for years to compare the confidential thing, the state of things, with the version in the newspaper. What was most amazing was that it is not the case that there is something quite different in the confidential papers than it says in the newspaper. It is the case that most of what is stamped confidentially is also in the open sources. It is no art to find confidential information in open sources. And I have the feeling that in Denmark we are on our way out on a slope. It is a slippery slope in which charges are brought against both civil servants and politicians if they say something which, although found in the open sources, is also supported by confidential ones. I have the feeling that the warning to the editors-in-chief is also based on the fact that, with evidence in open sources, they have said things that are also supported by confidential ones. This is no way to work in an open society. Now I just come up with a completely hypothetical example. What if you google yourself about Edward Snowden and after goingogling about Edward Snowden, you write everything you've found by goingogling in open sources about Edward Snowden? What if what has been Googled up is also contained in the confidential material used by our secret services? Yes, then you can file charges, or you can accuse the editors in charge of google, because there is also evidence of this in the closed sources. Or you can live with what our Prime Minister says. I think you have to do the last thing. You simply have to live with the fact that things can be found in open sources, yes, that's just the way it is. Then you cannot come after people and say that yes, you have said something that is also in the closed sources, and that is somehow a problem. I think we should also be aware of this, otherwise we should suddenly be so incredibly careful about using open sources, even if you are a politician, that I actually think it is becoming a major problem. So I hope that this is also a matter that can be clarified in the forums where it has been agreed to clarify the matter. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419194929	There are a few brief comments. First, it's for mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419194932	I have been thinking a lot about the latter because I have dealt with the Thule case, where an American aircraft with hydrogen bombs crashed and one of the bombs disappeared, or at least it was not found. And a Danish journalist worked on those stories for years. He was called something with that he was about to be crazy, and told that now he must soon stop and that there was nothing in that story. It lasted until he went to the U.S. and visited the intelligence archives over there, where they happily and openly said: Well, it's an old case, we're just rolling out the rolling table with all the files, and you're gonna have to sit here at the desk, and you're gonna have to take out your computer and camera. That case later turned out to be much more extensive because there was a Danish Prime Minister who had actually lied or at least kept secret from the Folketing some questions which were political. And there I thought: I wonder when openness is dangerous, and when is the openness in those areas actually an advantage and provides security? I have not really been able to find out for myself, but what is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195047	Based on my own experience, I have the experience that we are overclassifying in Denmark. While I was serving in the defense as a language officer, we had a big exhibition about the Warsaw Pact, which we then made and traveled around with in Denmark, so that the ordinary conscripts could see this exhibition, and there was the problem that one overclassifies in Denmark, and so we found the information we needed in British open sources that one could buy in any bookstore, and then we just wrote with reference to Janes Weekly, then we could tell everything about how Soviet regiments were armed and something like that. It was classified in Denmark, but it was in completely open and British sources, so it is the same story that the questioner brings forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195130	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195132	I'm thinking of a parallel to this case. It is good that the media are writing about this, it is good that the media are digging up the stories to the extent that it tolerates the light of day, because the people may then, because of greater trust, support more that of course we need intelligence services in Denmark, and that of course they must also do their work well and properly, and that it must be skilled people and they must have the money they need, etc. But it also requires that there is both the confidence of the politicians, but also the confidence of the people in general, and there the American openness has then proved to be elegant, more open than the Danish in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195213	Well, I quite agree with that, and I would just like to add that I think that changing managements, for example. The police intelligence service has been trying for many, many years to modernise the public expression and try to become a little more open, and I would be sorry if that work were put back, because I think the way things are done in the United States is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195237	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195239	It is nice to hear the Enhedslisten and the Liberal Alliance jointly praise the United States; it does not happen every day. Thanks for a thought-provoking speech, and for this overclassing, I can at least tell a little anecdote about a friend I have, who is in the Navy Home Guard, where a knuckleboard is a board where you can see how to tie a hoop and a double chop etc. So that would suggest that perhaps there is something about the talk. However, when something has been in open sources, it may also be difficult to know that the same information can be found in confidential sources. How the hell would you know? They're confidential. And that then leads me to the question, which I also intend to put a little later to the Minister for Justice: what does it mean that something is secret? For section 109 of the Criminal Code is about the disclosure of secret information. If something's been in the country's newspapers and been on the TV and you can find it online, I guess it's per. definition no longer secretly. Does the rapporteur agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195345	I totally agree. After all, it undermines the central importance of what the word secretly means if things in all the newspapers in the country are secret. That is also why I am raising this debate, because, of course, things that have appeared in all the newspapers in the country are per. definition not secret. Of course, all sorts of boundaries can be included; I am aware of that, but the starting point must be that it is clear that it is not secret if it is in Daniel Ellsberg's Pentagon Papers, or if it is in Edward Snowden's papers etc., and they are multiplied in a million copies.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195423	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195427	It's just such a brief clarification question. Does the rapporteur differ as to whether the person who communicates a secret which is no longer secret is aware that it is in fact confidential information which is then out in the public domain without any indication of the source, or whether it is such as the rapporteur or myself, who has no access to confidential sources and is thus supposed to disclose the information solely on the basis of rumours or quotes from someone who does not want to name it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195505	I totally agree that if you're going to set up a set of rules, you're going to have to work more on it than it is right now. But my point of departure would be that if you take a completely random example now I am retired Minister of Defence and, referring to something that has been in the New York Times saying that and so, I do not see that this is a problem, even if the person is retired Minister of Defence because he is referring to the New York Times.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195542	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195544	So if the person had not been able to refer to or had not referred to a source somewhere, despite the fact that the source is without its own source, would that be another matter? The rapporteur would therefore make a distinction between a retired defence minister who went out alone and said something which, incidentally, was also in other places, but who was aware that it is confidential information, and then a retired defence minister just to mention an example of a case that is reported with source?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195618	There are plenty of details in such a case that we cannot decide here. But I just want to say that for a very, very many years I worked in this com centre, and I would never say that this was the case and that was the case with disarmament negotiations out in thin air. After all, all these disarmament negotiations and this two-way decision were going on while I was working there. I would never say it unless I could say that it was with reference to something I have read in Jyllands-Posten, even though I might have read it elsewhere. I would never do that, because I find that problematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195651	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195653	Thank you to the rapporteur for an interesting and different approach to our debate here today. We all know about getting a confidential answer from a minister... it could be the Minister for Justice... where, when we ask about having it declassified, we find out that the dequalified answer is basically the same as the confidential one. There you may sometimes say that there may well be some inflation in those so-called confidential answers, but that is a slightly different story. I would just like to hear from the Enhedslisten's question here about the Thule case... it is an old case... and also in relation to several of the other cases that have been raised here, if not part of the problem, as the rapporteur sees it, is really about the Archive Act. So, in the United States, there is much more liberal archival legislation than we do, and that means that a great many journalists who are interested in many interesting issues can find very much old material in American archives. Compared to e.g. After all, the Cuban crisis can almost be found out what was happening minute by minute. That would not happen in Denmark. So is it really not the Archive Act that we might have more to do, that is to say, another day than what we are talking about today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195814	I think that, among other things. is the Archive Act. But my personal experience is also just that you don't get pressured very much or required some answers if you classify things. If you turned things around and said that things are unclassified, unless there is a good reason, then that would be a completely different discussion, because then whoever wanted to put a stamp on should give the reasons. I think that would be a great step forward, because sometimes I think people just secretly label things because it makes them feel like more important employees. Well, I think there might also be an idea to classify those knots that were mentioned earlier, and then you'd want to learn how to tie them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195853	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. And then we've reached Mr. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419195908	Thank you. In fact, it makes you want to stay down after this very, very exciting speech by Mr. Henrik Dahl. However, I will not do that anyway. I think that discussion is very interesting, but I would also like to say to Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, who asked why we are actually here, that we are here because, when this whole thing exploded and came to public knowledge, I was faced with the Prime Minister, who is also the minister of the press, we should remember, during Question Time, and I asked her as the minister of the press about how she dealt with Article 172 of the Code of Procedure in the situation in question, because I wanted the minister of the press to make it clear that the protection of sources is inviolable. I could not get that out of the Prime Minister, who, for various reasons, will hardly answer anything at all. Then I tried to put an urgent question; there was not a majority for that, but with the help of Enhedslisten we were then lifted it here today. I would also like to thank the parties involved in the adoption text. It is quite true that there have been different texts around. The Social Democrats and such things also have that. It's always nice when we finally find some common road we can be on, and that's why Mr. Henrik Dahl is also right that there is such a fundamental consensus and fortunately for it. Because we are talking about the great and important principles of our society, and that is also what I think this discussion is perfectly legitimate to conduct down here, because it is a matter of principle and will always be a matter of principle. And it is absolutely impossible to escape the fact that both the case of the former spy chief and so on, which has been very, very public, can be said, and the intelligence service has contributed to that too, but also about a former defence minister, which has been very much mentioned, and there have been some derivatives, we have to say actions which have been much discussed in the media, and then, of course, we have to take a look at it and have a fundamental discussion. For me, and I would like to say this personally, it has not been intended at any time to express a criticism of the government, because I have no basis for expressing criticism of the government. I do not have the basis for expressing criticism of the secret services either, but I have the opportunity to ask some questions which I think are important to our democracy, and I have the opportunity to seek a fundamental discussion on some of these issues which are difficult and which Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg also said: When is something one, and when is something the other? I mentioned to the Minister of Justice Katharine Graham of the Washington Post and Katharine Gun, who, in the administration and intelligence services, the British and American intelligence services were major criminals. Well, if it had been up to them, they'd have been guilty of very violent judgments. I do not think anyone today will say that they were not heroes because they revealed lies within the authorities. This is not the case here, but it just tells us a little about what dilemmas and schism there are. At home, we have, as Mr. Henrik Dahl quite rightly mentions some cases in which one might well wonder why very large guns are being shot, and where we have seen at least in the past that it has ended with purely exoneration, and then one is left with a wonder when such a case is pending. And I have full respect for not commenting as such on pending cases, but I think it is important, and here I am also talking about old journalists in several places, that when there are actions that the press feels are intimidating, one cannot take that feeling away from them, and then we have to stand up for it too and say that there are principles that apply and the end does not justify the means, even for our intelligence services. We do not know whether that is what has happened or whether there has been anything concrete or really intimidating, but we are asking the question, and now we are looking forward to getting answers, and we can get that with the adoption text that has been made today, thanks to a broad section of the parliamentary parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419200423	Thank you for that, and there are no brief remarks to Mr. Jens Rohde. And then we're through the rapporteur's line and we've reached the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419200444	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate which has highlighted the balance that must be struck: freedom of expression, which is a core value in an open and democratic society, and which must be what the Danish press, by the way, benefits from the increased protection of freedom of expression, and, on the other hand, the need to protect classified information, so that we do not harm Denmark, do not harm our close allies, do not harm our partners. That should be self-evident, especially in the situation we are in and with the world we are seeing around us at the moment. A text has been drawn up for adoption. I am not sure that I would have put it that way if I had 90 mandates. But with what is available, I think it is reasonably balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419200556	Thank you. And there is a brief comment. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419200559	As I have proclaimed before, I would like to ask whether the Minister of Justice agrees with Mr. Henrik Dahl and myself in that if anything has been in the country's newspapers, then it is no longer secret
ParlaMint-DK_20220419200613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419200614	I'm not sure it's that simple, I'm not sure it is. It can, for example, be done. also depends on who confirms, reproduces, relates to the information and whether it is a direct quote or not. So I'm not sure. I believe that the legal analysis of this issue is more nuanced than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419200643	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419200644	So, one can discuss whether anything that has been said in the speaking chair of the Folketing can still be a secret, but if it has been in the newspapers of the country, there are quite a lot of people who have read it. And I must say that I am constantly puzzled by the law-educated Minister of Justice and the relationship that exists with concepts such as secrecy and freedom, etc., which are, of course, contrary to a general understanding of the language concepts. I just note that the government apparently believes that even if something has been in a newspaper, it can still be a secret. That's where we disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419200723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419200723-2	No, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen asked if it was so definitive. I just said it might be more nuanced than that. And that's how we can all wonder about things. I am surprised that we do not have the support of the Left for the police settlement or that, in relation to the criminal services, we are throwing a glimpse of suspicion beyond our essential executive authorities. That's how we all wonder.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419200754	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place only on Thursday, 21 April 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220419200812	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 20 April. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
