ParlaMint-DK_20220427125958	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 174 (Proposal for a law amending the law on primary school, the law on municipal action for young people under 25 years of age, the law on day-to-day welfare agreements and the law on primary schools. Bill No. L 175 (Proposal for a law amending the law on primary schools, the law on free schools and private primary schools, etc., the law on post-schools and free vocational schools and the law on municipal international primary schools. Tax Minister (Jep Bruus): Bill no. L 176 (Proposal for a Law amending the Tax Reporting Act and various other laws. Bill No. L 177 (Proposal for a Law amending the Property Assessment Act, the Boat Tax Act and the Boat Tax Act). Ministry of Interior and Housing (Kaare Dybvad Bek): Bill no. L 178 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Rent of General Housing, the Law on General Housing, etc.) and the law on the administration of justice. Minister for Education and Research (Jesper Petersen): Bill no. L 179 (Proposal for a law amending the Social Security Code. Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup): Bill No. L 180 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Enforcement of Punishment etc., Criminal Code, Code of Procedure and various other laws. Bill No. L 181 (Proposal for a Law amending the Bankruptcy Act. Bill No. L 182 (Proposal for a law amending the Criminal Code, the Code of Procedure and various other laws. in the Youth Crime Board, increased access to the transmission and recording of photos, improvement of police investigative capabilities, etc.) Bill No. L 183 (Proposal for a Law on the partial exception to the independent task force on the ownership, ownership and insurance of Star Star from the rules of the Public Administration Act, etc.) and Bill No. L 184 (Proposal for a law amending the law on civil liability and the law on compensation from the State to victims of crime. Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF) and Per Larsen (KF): Request no. F 56 (Will the government make binding objectives that fewer Danes should be lonely, on which the government should be measured annually, and will the government undertake initiatives in relation to these objectives to ensure that fewer Danes feel lonely, including under the national loneliness partnership?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). On 19 April 2022, the Health Committee submitted: report on funds to the Multiple Sclerosis Hospital. 16). The account will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130147	I would like to say to the audience that it is the case that MEPs submit questions to the ministers by Friday dinner, and then we will have a small debate here. They first get every 2 minutes, and then there are 3 times 1 minute to exchange views. The first question is to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, by Mr Gundelach. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130209	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130212	Thank you, President. Does the Foreign Minister agree with the then Minister for Defence, Mrs Trine Bramsen, who said to dk4 in December 2020: We will sit at the table and actually do so as Danish Minister for Defence. You sit at the table. And: We can take the floor and discuss, and say what we think is significant [...]. I do not come to Brussels to say anything. And at the People's Meeting on April 29, 2021: This is not an image I recognize that we are being sent outside the door. We're at all the meetings, aren't we?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130246	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130247	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmide for asking questions. However, I would like the question to have been put to the Minister for Defence, since the question relates to the meeting activities of the Minister for Defence. However, since the questioner has insisted that I answer the question, that is to say the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I can refer instead to the defence minister's answer to question 109 to the Parliament's Committee on Europe of 17 March this year, where the Minister for Defence states the following: "Danish Defence Ministers always have access to EU Foreign Affairs Councils (Defence Part). However, Denmark does not take the floor when the other EU countries discuss issues covered by the Danish defence reserve. So it is quite correct when the former Minister of Defence says that we, the Minister of Defence, are sitting at the table and that we are not being sent outside the door. At the same time, however, Denmark has undertaken not to prevent the other Member States from developing their defence cooperation as they wish. That is clear from Article 5 of Protocol No. 22 on Denmark's position. Therefore, Denmark does not take the floor when the other EU countries discuss reserved issues such as: EU military missions and operations. Without the defence reserve, Denmark will have the opportunity to participate fully in the design of future defence cooperation. It is in Denmark's interest, especially in the difficult security situation, which is the consequence of Russia's attack on Ukraine on 24 February and onwards. That is why we must abolish the defence reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130427	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130429	Thank you for that and also thank you for making it clear to the listeners that I have insisted that it be the Foreign Minister who answers this question. For it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs who, I understand, is the government's representative as Minister for the bill that we are about to deal with, which is about to phase out the Danish defence reserve. That's why I think it's interesting. It is certainly the Foreign Minister who has modelled all the faux pas So it would almost be unfair if it were not the Foreign Minister when he has stood up for the clumsy wording on the electoral card and for the lack of guarantee in the bill etc. June. And that's why it's so exciting to talk to the Secretary of State about these things. For the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also said on several other occasions, as part of the overall argument for settling the defence reservation, that it is about Danish influence. In other words, we must make our mark in the way in which the European Union is now building up its defence, that is to say, the defence that is directly stated in Article 42 (1). 2 that you want Denmark to be a part of and that you have to remove the reservation for these provisions. We have to make our mark. What is so interesting is that Mrs Trine Bramsen, in her capacity at the time, said about the work as Minister for Defence that she was already sitting at the table. When she was already sitting there, what is it for a table that the Foreign Minister feels that Denmark is not sitting well with today, where we have the reservation? Mrs Trine Bramsen said, as then Minister for Defence, that I will not come to Brussels to say anything. I mean, implied, she's saying something, she's talking. What, then, are some meetings of which the Minister of Foreign Affairs is concerned that Denmark cannot be part of today as a result of the defence reserve, but which is then thought to be part of?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130620	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130621	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmide. Now I've read Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's question is very thorough, and so there is nothing about legislative proposals or other things. This is just a question of what the former Minister for Defence has said at the meeting table, where I, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, do not participate, but where the Minister for Defence is taking part. Let it go. What I also said clearly in my reply, and which I would like to repeat, is, of course, that you have access to all meetings. However, our defence reserve does not allow Denmark to speak when the other EU countries discuss reserved issues, such as the EU's military missions and operations, PESCO, in other words structured defence cooperation, or the Defence Agency.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130700	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130701	That's exciting. So, I assume that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a more thorough knowledge of it, and perhaps also of the company that is going on in the Ministry of Defence than I do, for example. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm just a member of the Danish Parliament, and the Minister is the third most important in the government and has a close relationship with the Ministry of Defence, I suppose. And when the Secretary of Defense then says that she does not come to Brussels to say nothing, can we not agree that this must mean that she says something? Then who's she talking to? Is it out in the bathroom when she's dressing herself that she's talking into the mirror, or is she talking to herself? Or who is she, as Minister for Defence, saying something to if you are not allowed to say anything at these meetings, which are where it is formally happening?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130736	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130738	I mean, for the third time to Mr. Knox... Morten Messerschmidt: Where you say something is in relation to what is not covered by the reserved issues, and I repeat: where you say nothing, the EU's military missions and operations are PESCO, structured defence cooperation, or the Defence Agency. This is all subject to reservations, and I cannot understand why Mr. Morten Messerschmidt does not think it is a little silly that, when we are at the meeting table, we should not be able to take the floor with the other 26 countries too. However, that would require us to abolish the defence reserve, and it might be that this is what one should be interested in how we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130808	Morten Messerschmidt, final question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130810	That is exactly what interests me, namely the defence reserve, and then the arguments put forward by the Foreign Minister as an argument as to why it should be taken, I think, a drastic step. But are we to understand that when the then Minister of Defence says that she does not come to Brussels, let alone say anything, it is not about the meetings of the defence ministers, that is to say, building an EU defence and all the things that structured permanent defence cooperation and all the things that the Minister of Foreign Affairs would like to bring Denmark into? I mean, that's not what the Secretary of Defense has been talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130846	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130848	It is where there are reserved issues that we do not take the floor in respect of the defence reserve. Once again, I think the focus here should be on the fact that it's probably a little silly, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, that Denmark is sitting with 26 other countries while we have a war in Europe with Russia's illegal and unprovoked war against Ukraine, and we all agree to strengthen our security • but Denmark cannot speak on important issues related to the development of EU defence cooperation. But we can do that if we abolish the defence reserve, so just one question: could it not be very sensible for Denmark's voice to be heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130922	Thank you. The question is over, but we will continue with a question for the Foreign Minister and with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130930	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427130932	Thank you, President. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree with the then Minister for Defence, Mrs Trine Bramsen, who said on 16 January 2020 to the DR that if you are fully involved in the core of European defence cooperation, then you have to ask soldiers for the European missions too, and in a consultation that same year, there will be a requirement for Denmark to take part in operations if we become part of the core of the EU defence policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131003	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131004	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. I note that, on the no side, it has become a sport to find old statements rather than to talk about substance and relate to the serious situation that we find ourselves in after 24 February with Russia's unprovoked attack war against Ukraine. I would therefore rather discuss why it is important for us to take responsibility and fully join in defending our European values. If we enter fully into European defence cooperation, there will be an expectation that we will carry out our part of the task, for example. by the fact that, if we choose to do so, we can contribute to missions and operations. At the same time, I want to make it quite clear that Denmark will not be in a situation where we will be forced to send out soldiers. It's voluntary, as Mr. Knox said. Morten Messerschmidt knows whether and to what extent each country contributes to the EU's missions and operations. And if Denmark wants to send soldiers, it will require the consent of the Folketing. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt well, because he also knows the constitution. And let me emphasise again: there is no movement towards supranational defence cooperation. Danish soldiers are Danish soldiers, French soldiers are French soldiers, Swedish soldiers are Swedish soldiers. And nobody's gonna change that. But I hope that we can have a proper substantive discussion, because we are therefore in the midst of a situation in Europe in which we demand that the West stand together. Denmark would like to contribute we have a duty to contribute to defending our security, which is why we need to get rid of the defence reserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131130	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131132	And everything until the conclusion, I was basically in agreement with. How can one unite in the West without the United States and the British? That's what's so weird. But let us now find out what the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are going to do. It would like to dismantle the defence reserve in order for Denmark to participate in military operations. If we then look at what military operations the European Union has carried out so far, then it is the operation in Mali, it is in the Central African Republic, it is in Somalia, also several other states around the Balkans, Africa, etc. I know that this is a bit backwards, and the Foreign Minister does not like it. He will look forward, but the interesting thing is to find out, based on what the EU has already been involved in, what the Foreign Minister then expects Denmark to do in the future. So, we have to send Danish soldiers to e.g. Mali or the other countries in Africa I mentioned before on an EU mandate? Is that what you want? That is what, I think, is at the heart of a great many Danes. It is in that light that it is so incredibly exciting to hear what the former Minister of Defence has said. I'm not a big fan of this government and of this government's ministers, but if there's one I should point out that I'm really a growing fan of and that I like on Facebook, and I don't know what, then it's Mrs Trine Bramsen, especially in her previous capacity. Because she says it very frankly. She says: "There will be a requirement for Denmark to participate in operations if we become part of the core of the EU defence policy. That's what the Secretary of State says. He just won't come up with what these operations are. That is what I think a very, very large majority of Danes would like to know. It is well known in here, as everyone knows, that the majority in the Folketing loves the European Union much more than people on the streets. That's why you get your butt kicked almost every time you put forward a proposal for a referendum. Then, when you are to have the power to send Danish soldiers around NATO, but with an EU mandate, we would also like to know where you are going to send them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131327	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131329	No, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, we love our freedom, our security. We love our territorial integrity, our sovereignty as states. All those values have been so grossly violated by Russia's provocative illegal attack war in Ukraine, which is the greatest war we have seen on European soil since the Second World War. In this situation, we must all ask ourselves: What are we doing as a country to help strengthen our security? Denmark should not be the only country with a defence reserve in the EU. We must be with the other EU countries, the three Baltic countries, which are also transatlantic, as we are, Poland, etc. in a strong cooperation also to lift our own security.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131404	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131405	Freedom and security rhymes with NATO. It's the Americans, the British, the Canadians. Surely there is nothing Putin wants more than for the EU to build an EU army, an EU defence, without the Americans and the British. It must be the greatest gift you can give him at all. That's why it's so interesting to find out what it is you want to use this power for. Every time an EU politician comes and says that give me a little more power, you have to be very, very careful. So come on, Secretary of State, and tell us what kind of wars they are. Is it in Africa, is it in the Balkans, where is it that the EU is about to wage war and Denmark must join if we get what you want?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131442	Well, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, what do you mean, I believe that what is surprising is the cohesion that has existed between the European Union and NATO transatlantic, and that can only be strengthened by Denmark abolishing the defence reserve and also lifting its share in the EU's defence cooperation, with the Americans and with NATO. Because that's the way it is today. The second question is where we can contribute. We can do that, for example. in the Balkans, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt himself points to Bosnia. There was a NATO-led operation here. When it became an EU military leader, Denmark had to withdraw. It's kind of silly, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131515	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt for his last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131516	Does the Foreign Minister agree with the EU and NATO? Well, it's all about the West. This is not just about the EU countries, but also about Norway, including Great Britain, Iceland and all the countries that we normally regard as our allies. These are the ones we need to keep together. It is in that perspective that it reaches, for example. Macron not only designates China, not only Russia, but also the United States as a future counter-pole for the EU's military, will be a division, not by the European Union, but by the West, and that is what Putin dreams of. So the Foreign Minister and the European Union are doing Putin's business.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131552	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131553	No, this statement is not correct, I would say to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. On the contrary, cooperation between the European Union and NATO is historic and good. Each organisation contributes to our security by complementing the different capabilities you have. Let's take Russia. We're imposing sanctions on Putin's war machine. I hope so, sir. Morten Messerschmidt backs up. It is the European Union that stands for it, together with our partners transatlantic. At the last NATO meeting, at the meeting of Foreign Ministers, with which I attended before Easter, we also had the European Union, in other words with NATO. We also brought other partners. So this contrasting of it is just vertically wrong. We must stand together in the West, and we do so today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131630	The question is over. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, and thank the Secretary of State. We will start with the next question, which is for the Minister of Health. It has been tabled by Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131642	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131646	Thank you. Does the Minister believe that the legislation in force must be amended so that, in exceptional cases, it will be possible to delete in patient records so that persons who have been subjected to identity theft do not appear permanently, as for example: pill addicts?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131703	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131708	I assume that the issue is related to the case from North Jutland, where one person abused other people's personal numbers to print addictive drugs over the phone, and this is a matter that we have discussed in this Chamber earlier. Let me start by saying that we must ensure that the problem does not arise at all, and that means that the doctor must at first be sure of the patient's identity. Because if the doctor does not ensure identity, these situations may arise where there is abuse of serious water-forming medicines, but also abuse of the identity of other patients, and where the injured patient then finds that conditions appear in one's medical record, which he cannot recognize at all, and which is therefore not something that is correct. The records we know are an extremely important working tool for both doctors and other healthcare professionals, and they need to be correct and they need to be adequate, and this is absolutely crucial for patient safety. We also use records to ensure and document what treatment has happened, but also what treatment has not happened, and the record can therefore also identify errors and deficient treatments. So it is an important part of the documentation in patient complaints and damages cases, and then the record can also have an impact in supervisory cases, if they are directed at healthcare professionals and treatment centres, and in criminal proceedings. So that is why it is not possible today to go in and delete information in the journal. However, in response to the question, I can say that the Ministry of Health, together with the Board of Patient Safety, has been looking at models of how in future it should be possible either to delete or block or correct information included in the medical record that is incorrect and that work is not yet finished. But I have informed you before and I will repeat that I am awaiting the work before adopting a concrete model that I will discuss with the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131903	Mrs. Anne Honoré Østergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427131904	Thank you for your answer, or rather, I do not quite feel that I could hear the Minister's opinion on it, but more so, that the Minister is waiting for another working party. This case is not just about something in North Jutland, but it is 41 people who have had their personal numbers misused to get 6,000 pills, even some very, very ugly pills. And it is true that I have been home to visit one of them, and it is very heartbreaking what that person has been through. She even had to escape from the emergency room because the doctors who thought she was a pill addict rather than she had just fallen on a bicycle, which was actually what she was. But frankly, Minister, I do not feel that I am getting an answer to my question. After all, we are talking about identity theft, we are talking about something that says something quite different in one's patient records, and I think that is actually quite simple. In other words, if you had abused my medical record or it had been messed up or something, and it says that I have been handed over viagra or have had prostate cancer and all sorts of things, you don't think it's both a little confusing for the doctors and also what you would call slavery for me, or if it says that the minister is abusing heroin, that the minister has got venereal disease, and I don't know what? Does the Minister honestly not think that if someone has done something, and it is not about the Minister himself, it should be able to be deleted from one's medical records? It's actually a yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132050	Firstly, in relation to the specific case in which an addict has abused other people's social security numbers and has been printed out, despite clear guidelines on when to print as a watch doctor and when not to print to patients you see, i.e. via the telephone I have indicated to the regions that you must comply with these guidelines. Secondly, whether it becomes a deletion or a blocking of information or any other form of such correction, it is the work we are examining.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132123	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132124	Okay, now it's no secret that this work has been going on for many, many years, actually since 2016, and I understand that the minister started the working group again in November. The person I've been home to visit has now been given a new social security number, and getting a new social security number is not easy, that is to say, first to get it. In addition, everything needs to be changed, and we talk about passports, driving licences, NemID, telephone subscriptions, insurance papers, licenses, etc. So I just ask: when can we expect a conclusion on the work that has been started?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132156	We can do that as soon as possible. It is true that there was work and the then government presented the health rapporteurs in August 2017 with three models, but chose not to go further. You didn't choose to go further, and there's probably a reason for that, so it's not as simple as it sounds. We often have a problem here, a very obvious real problem that we want to solve. The challenge is that patient records are so crucial to patients' safety if mistakes are made in our healthcare system. So we have to be absolutely sure that we fence it in exactly and that we are not going to create systems that delete some information that we need elsewhere. And that's where the commission is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132231	Thank you. Anne Honoré Østergaard, final question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132234	In precisely the obvious cases, where identity theft is involved, can the Minister not set a date for when something is coming? The last time it was thwarted by a choice, and the risk is the same here if the Minister chooses not to put on a date. So can the Minister not set a date on when these people can get an answer? Right now, it's about 41 people, but I'm afraid I've come to stay. So that's not all we're gonna see about it. So can the Minister make a date or is there a risk that it will also be thwarted by a choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132305	I don't think it's gonna be thwarted by a choice. As I said, the previous government presented some proposals in August 2017, and it was not close to a parliamentary election. But it was not just a choice to go ahead with it, because there would probably be more work to do, and what I am saying is that the work is not provided for the reason that we have to solve this problem, but that we should not just have created all sorts of other problems. Because we all need our health record systems to work, and we need to be sure of that when we make some adjustments to these systems. I understand that we need to find a solution to this, but we just don't have to do anything that creates other problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132337	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to the Minister for Health and thank you to Anne Honoré Østergaard. We go further, but now it is with questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and the questioner is Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132349	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132350	Thank you, President. What is the Minister's view that a skilled American with top jobs in Denmark cannot get permanent residence despite the fact that he is a great contributor to our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132405	Thank you for the question. Of course, I also read the article in the newspaper Politiken, on which I am sure the question is based. I would like to start by saying something in general which I am sure the questioner has heard before, namely that as a minister I cannot, must or will not interfere in the specific proceedings or decisions of the authorities. The decision on permanent residence permits shall be taken by the Foreigners' Board at first instance with the right of appeal to the Independent Foreigners' Board. However, I can say a little more in general that we are imposing strict requirements for permanent residence in Denmark, and I think we should do so, because it is important that people who are granted permanent residence permits are integrated into Danish society. Unfortunately, not everyone comes here who wants to be an all-life part of our society. It also means that we sometimes have to hear about cases where people have been denied. But I would also like to say that I can read from that article, and I only know the case from the newspaper article that it seems that someone has been denied a permanent residence permit because he has come to take a test at a higher level than what he really needed, and I don't think that really makes sense. That is why I have also told my officials that this is a rule that I think we should change.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132518	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132519	Thank you, Minister. What the Minister concluded by saying, I am actually very, very happy about, because this case really demonstrates the most absurd aspect of Danish immigration policy. Benjamin from the United States I meet with him a few hours ago, after all, has gone to a top university, he has a top job at a Danish company, he has a Danish girlfriend, and he has learned fluent Danish. He is the epitome of someone who comes to Denmark to contribute and engage, but he cannot get a permanent residence permit because the rules are so bureaucratic and there is almost 2 years of processing time. On the other side of the medal, and the Minister is well aware of this, we have these exemption rules for young 18-year-olds who just get a permanent residence permit, even if they never had a job in Denmark. They have not taken any further education, and many of them have committed extensive crime. In fact, almost a third of the young 18-19-year-olds who are granted a residence permit under lax rules, almost a third of those from Iraq, Iran and Somalia, commit crime after they have been granted permanent residence permits. So it's all upside down. We propose that the Minister call for negotiations to turn the whole thing upside down so that American Benjamin, who has a job, can get a permanent residence permit in Denmark, but these criminal youths cannot. Is this something that the Minister will support?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132637	I have not met Benjamin, as the questioner has, and I cannot, of course, deal with a specific matter here. But I think that in general we have an excellent rule in the law on foreigners. It says, for example, that if you have to live up to a requirement to have passed the test in Danish 2, it says at least Danish 2. This means that if you have passed Danish 3, you also live up to the demand for Danish 2. However, when it comes to permanent residence permits, we have said that you must have passed the citizenship test. If someone has passed the test at a slightly higher level, which we call the citizenship test, then it does not apply. I do not think that makes any sense, and that is why I think we should change it. And that is what we will propose in the next parliamentary assembly, that is, that the small adjustment be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132714	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132717	Thank you again to the Minister for the tiny little concession. But if I just have to sum up here in relation to Benjamin's situation: his world is breaking down; he has entered a top-MBA in the United States where he cannot participate, because if he is not in Denmark, his entire application for permanent residence will be smoked. His first application has been rejected because the website of the network that was supposed to show that he is engaging in the community it skips among other things. out of the World Economic Forum, this is the way for young businessmen to be in English. Because the website is in English, he's been denied. Now there is almost two years of processing before the next reply. Can the Minister see how absurd this is?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132752	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132753	My basic approach to foreign policy is that it should be strict, but not crazy. We never get to a place where there will not be a single case every now and then, where you just take a look at your head and you think: I don't think that was the intention of the legislation. I do not think the questioner imagines that either. But sometimes we also have to stop when, for example, we have to stop. Read such a newspaper article and just say: Can it really be true? And if it is true that there is some foreign law that is crazy, I think it has also turned out that the Folketing has been willing to adjust the changes very broadly over the last few years, and that is what we are proposing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132827	Last question from Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132829	But it's not just a small part of the alien law that's crazy. That's a lot. If you come here as an American businessman, it is almost impossible to obtain a permanent residence permit, but if you have come here as a young person from the Middle East, you will only receive a Danish permanent residence permit when you are 18 years old, even if you have committed crime. Now the Minister was sensitive to new negotiations on citizenship. The minister was also sensitive to looking at the rules of family reunification, where there are also some crazy examples. So will the Minister please call for new negotiations so that we can review the rules for permanent residence permits once and for all?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132903	We do not propose any major changes to the rules on permanent residence permits. There are a few places where I think it is crazy and where we will put forward proposals that just have the crazy paragraphs removed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132914	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. We are moving on and questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration are still missing, and now it is from Mrs Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132925	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132927	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that eight out of ten of the Foreigners' Board's refusals in cases of Syrian stay in Denmark in 2022 have been overruled by the Refugee Board, and how will the Minister ensure that the Foreigners' Board's practice follows the Refugee Board's practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427132946	Thank you for the question. As I have also said before, it is in the first instance the Foreign Affairs Agency and then the Independent Refugee Board, with a judge for the table end, who decides whether people need protection in Denmark. Of course, I trust the assessments of the authorities and will therefore not interfere with specific decisions. However, as I have also mentioned before, the Refugee Board is the appeal body that takes the final decision on asylum cases, which is why it is also quite natural that the Agency should be aware of the practice of the mention and, where appropriate, organise practices to be consistent with the decisions of the Refugee Board. Of course, I have an expectation of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133023	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133025	Yeah, and that's exactly how it goes, and that's how it's supposed to be. It looks really fine on paper, the system works, except that it may not do so anyway, as we now see an increase in the turnover rate from last year to this year from over 50 per cent. 80 per cent. It doesn't matter that there are so many cases being reversed. These people live in a limbo for all the many months they're waiting for the jury's decision, where they get incredibly stressed and pressed. After all, many of them also go down mentally and are unable to contribute to society in the way we want it. We are, of course, a long way along the way happy that all of these cases are being reversed, but we are certainly not happy that the Foreigners' Board seems to be unable to correct them. This practice has taken place since 2019. When is it that the Minister thinks that the Foreign Affairs Agency should start to correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133112	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133113	I expect to see a clearer picture of the conversion rate here during the summer. The reason why it takes a little time for the established practice of the Refugee Board to come to fruition in the decisions of the National Immigration Agency is that there is a time for proceedings. But it will be here during the summer, I expect we will begin to see a clearer picture. I also think it is part of history that it is not always the case that, out of the decisions of the Refugee Board, you can just see a completely established practice. That is something that is developing gradually.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133148	Thank you. Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133150	Perhaps, for that very reason, it could be imagined that the National Council for Foreign Affairs withdraws some cases. It may also be practice in other administrative contexts that you have cases on an appeal board and then withdraw them because you can see that the practice you have decided is actually wrong. So, right now, when the Refugee Board is buried in cases from Ukraine, could it not be imagined that things would be withdrawn and left behind and then concentrated on Ukraine?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133223	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133224	It's not like all the cases are the same. It may well be that there is one asylum motive, it is that people are deserted from the military, and another asylum motive that is about homosexuality or about belonging to a religious minority. So although it is all about Syrians who have fled from the same war, the asylum motives can be very different, and therefore, when one practice has been established in one case, it cannot be shredded onto all other cases. Now I also heard the Foreigners' Board participate in P1 yesterday, where they also say that it is sometimes that there has been public exposure after the decision at first instance that changes the decision at second instance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133301	Thank you. Then the final question from Kathrine Ollyday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133303	I am incredibly pleased that the Minister is taking this example, because out of the 20 cases now published on the Refugee Board's website, three of the cases have taken a turn in the media, and out of the three cases the asylum seeker has still been denied asylum in one of the cases. So it has nothing to do with whether they're in the media or not. This has nothing to do with the fact that the decision has been wrong on the part of the Foreign Affairs Agency. So when are we going to see that there are changes in the practice of the Foreigners' Agency?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133334	What you had to understand at the Foreign Affairs Agency yesterday in P1 was that the changes included. due to the fact that some Syrians have made themselves subject to public exposure. This does not mean that everyone who has been in the media automatically receives asylum. It just means that the basis for making the decisions of the Refugee Board may be different from that of the Foreigners' Board, because something new has happened because there may be some people who have exposed themselves publicly. It just doesn't make it possible to say that the decision of the Foreigners' Authority is wrong because it was reversed in the mention. Something may have happened either this or something else that changes the basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133406	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and thank you to Kathrine Oldag, Radical Left. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133420	The debate is open. We start with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133436	The Danish People's Party proposes with B 87 that before New Year's the government should tighten up the relevant provisions of the Aliens Act, so that foreigners legally resident in Denmark are expelled if they help, hide or otherwise assist illegal foreigners who are in Denmark. It is our view that foreigners who are not legally resident in Denmark should of course not be here. They have to leave. Fortunately, we have a number of tools to protect against foreigners who are still able to stay in this country illegally. Among other things: The legislation provides for penalties to be imposed, or up to two years in prison, to assist a foreigner to reside illegally in this country. For foreigners, it is already the case that an unconditional prison sentence for this type of crime can have consequences for the right of residence. Under the current rules on expulsion, there is a stronger right to expel foreigners who are sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for, among other things, the death penalty. This kind of crime. In such cases, expulsion must take place unless it is certain that it would be contrary to our international obligations. In this context, let me stress that the expulsion of Denmark also means that one's residence permit will lapse, as well as one's entry ban. So we already have rules which allow us both to punish and, in the most serious cases, to expel foreigners who help others to stay illegally here in Denmark. That is also why the government cannot support this resolution. Having said that, we must of course do everything we can to avoid the development of an illegal subclass in Denmark. A powerful tool is to show foreigners without legal residence that you are sent home effectively. For every single time we send a person on a plane, we also send a signal that the trip up here was in vain for him, and it is therefore a very important priority for the government that those who do not have a legal stay leave home as soon as possible. That was why we established the Home Travel Agency in the summer of 2020, and last year the Return Travel Act came into force with a number of new initiatives. Both must support the return journey work with a close follow-up and a faster consequence for those who are not legally resident. I therefore also welcome the fact that the number of rejected asylum seekers to be sent home, which is in what we call the sending position, fell by 30%. over the past year. The government will, of course, continue to focus on strengthening the return effort. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133721	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133724	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. We know of some of the figures for those who have a residence permit in Denmark, although it is not fully updated. But the ROCKWOOL Foundation's research unit has among other things. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. And that is quite a lot, and unfortunately it is an increasing trend that people who are deported find ways to stay in Denmark. Whether they live in one way or another is difficult to say, but it is difficult to avoid that it must be criminal if you do not have a work permit or a residence permit. That is why this is a problem that calls for action, and we have actually left it up to the government to try to fill out the tightening itself, which we would like to see ideally, that it is simply said that if you as a foreigner in Denmark, that is if you are not a Danish citizen, help an illegal person to be here, then you have to lose your residence permit yourself. Why is it that we can't, so to speak, just do it? Then people know what the consequence is of doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133830	I would like to begin by saying that, as I interpret the motive behind the motion for a resolution, I am in fact very much in agreement with it, and I also regard it as essential, in terms of social democratic spectacles, that we are constantly working to ensure that what I call an illegal underclass does not develop. This is something that many other European countries have, and once they have stuck and become an integral part of the economy, it can be difficult for many reasons to get rid of again. That was also the reason why, as a government, we first presented a legislative proposal to double the penalty for having people employed if they did not have a legal residence permit, something which the whole of the Danish Parliament supported. And we have a number of new proposals on the way to achieving those companies which, in a very serious way, do not comply with the provisions of the law on foreigners in this area. Then there is just to say, if I am going to address the question, that it is already the case today that you can be expelled if you have helped a foreigner to reside illegally in this country. Of course, it requires a judge to assess whether it is serious enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133935	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427133936	It is a very good thing that the government here wants to strike down hard on those traders who may be using illegal labour. In relation to what the Minister says, we share that view in the Danish People's Party. We would also just like to see people walking in a similar way to those who then allow people to live in Denmark illegally, i.e. if you live in a basement or on the couch of some family members, or whatever it may be, knowing that the resident is staying illegally in Denmark. And it is true that one can therefore also just hear whether the Minister does not agree that it would be good if we made it the general rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134011	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134012	So, Section 59 of the Aliens Act says that you can get up to 2 years in prison if you help a foreigner to stay illegally in this country. There, of course, we can discuss whether that penalty is the way it should be. I do not know to what extent it is being used to the full or not. We can check that out. Then it also says that if you are a foreigner in Denmark and are sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence for this kind of crime, you can be expelled; it says in fact that you must:
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134043	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we can start the rapporteur's round. That's why it's now, sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134059	Thank you. The Danish People's Party proposes to tighten up the relevant provisions of the Aliens Act so that foreigners legally resident in Denmark are expelled if they help, hide or otherwise assist illegal aliens who are in Denmark. In the Social Democratic Party we, like the Danish People's Party, believe that foreigners without legal residence have nothing to do in Denmark and therefore have to travel out. Therefore, we have established the Home Travel Agency and have a new Return Travel Act passed, and both contribute to strengthening and targeting the work of returning convicted criminal foreigners, rejected asylum seekers and other foreigners without legal residence in Denmark. We strongly distance ourselves from residents who help, hide or otherwise assist illegal foreigners in Denmark. As the rules are today, people who help a foreigner to illegally reside in this country may be fined or imprisoned for up to two years. In addition, it is covered by extended expulsion and, if you are sentenced to an unconditional prison sentence for helping an illegal alien to stay in this country, expulsion can take place, even for how long you have lived here. It is only in cases where it is certain that it is contrary to our international obligations that expulsion cannot take place. Social democracy does not support the proposal, as it is already possible to expel foreigners who help foreigners without legal residence in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134221	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134222	Thanks for the speech. I think it is a bit of an insult to say that we are already there today. So what both the Minister and now the rapporteur are saying is that if you hide an illegal foreigner in Denmark, you can be sentenced to up to two years' imprisonment and if you are sentenced to up to two years' imprisonment, you can be extended. We would like to make the connection from the illegal act to the expulsion a little shorter, so that it simply became part of the punishment one can get to house a foreigner in Denmark; to make expulsion part of the punishment one can get in relation to it so that we do not have to go around those things. Because it is easy to imagine that someone is housing his cousin or cousin, or what I know, and who is just being fined or suspended or something, which then cannot lead to expulsion. I think that if we are going to get rid of this, both in relation to the underclass that the Minister of Integration is talking about, but also in relation to the principle that we can have perhaps 30,000, 40,000 illegal foreigners living here in Denmark, then we need to have much more tough sanctions right from the start.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134324	However, as the law stands today, under the rules of the Aliens Act, you can be punished with fines or imprisonment up to two years, both as a foreigner and as a Danish citizen, if you help foreigners to stay illegally. Furthermore, we know from some of the other debates we have had in this Chamber in recent years that there has actually been one, what should we say, change in practice, where there are significantly more expulsions and where it is not challenged by the European Court of Human Rights either. That is why, in this case too, we believe that the rules are already at a strict and high level.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134403	Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134404	Yes, but it doesn't seem to alleviate the desire to help illegal immigrants find a place in Denmark. Because based on the figures supplied by the Rockwool Foundation's research unit, it is as good as enough figures that are 3-4 years old that you estimate that there are between 23,000-29,000 people in Denmark illegally. Some of them, of course, live on the streets, but the vast majority, you have to base it on, live illegally somewhere. So does the rapporteur not agree that we need to tighten up the sanctions that are involved in housing an illegal immigrant?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134441	In fact, I believe that the sanctions are at a reasonable level and also at a high level. The very high number of foreigners staying illegally in Denmark are not necessarily all those who get the help of either Danes or other foreigners to stay here. That is why it is also a question of ensuring that they come out and that they do not succeed in establishing a life here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134507	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we can move on to Mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134519	Thank you for the floor. This is an important issue raised here. We in the Left believe that it is a serious crime to house and hide illegal aliens and that the backers in question must be punished, whether the backers are Danes or foreigners. We also believe that foreigners who are illegally staying in Denmark should be sent home to their home country as soon as possible. We are basically very positive about the intention of the proposal, namely that there should be fewer foreigners able to reside illegally in Denmark, and we are also concerned about the large number of people that research has shown to be illegally staying in Denmark. And we certainly do not reject the fact that a way to get that figure down may be to punish the perpetrators concerned, who house them and hide them. However, we believe that there are already rules in place to punish and, in more serious cases, also to deport people who help others to stay illegally in the country. Instead of supporting this proposal, we believe that we need to focus more on the repatriation of foreigners who are staying without a residence in Denmark. And we'd rather go down that trail first. We need to be better at returning rejected asylum seekers and expelled asylum centres in Denmark, and this should be a focus of our policy on illegal foreigners in Denmark. Against this background, the Left will not vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134702	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134714	Thank you for that, President. In the SF we want a humane foreign policy and a nuanced and proper foreign debate. Fortunately, this does not mean that we cannot and must not make demands on the people who come to and find themselves here in Denmark. Nor does it exclude the fact that we must be able to expel people who commit very serious crimes, but a humane immigration policy means that we cannot and must not simply expel all foreigners, even if few of them come into conflict with the law. There must be a limit to what qualifies foreigners to be expelled from Denmark. We have previously helped to ensure that Danish legislation and the Danish courts pushed to the limit of when to expel foreigners, and this has become easier. We have also supported the idea that it should be even easier to expel adult foreigners who commit crime, which is seriously detrimental to Denmark's vital interests. We do, because SF considers it a cornerstone of a sensible foreign policy that we receive people who come to Denmark with open hearts, but that the logical extension of the position is that our patience runs out if you do not take Denmark in. The question we are discussing today is therefore whether it should qualify people to be kicked out of Denmark by assisting illegal immigration. And although I recognise that it is a serious problem if there are foreigners in Denmark who do so, I find it rather difficult to see that it should automatically qualify a person for the red card. I think this reflects such a rather superficial understanding of the legal system, which, of course, works by assessing cases on its own merits and in its own context. I remember, for example, when the blue block was resented by it when a man fired a shotgun and that the fact that he defended himself against another man who attacked him with an axe resulted in a tougher sentence than that of the attacker, then to find out that the hard sentence was due to the blue block's own tightening of the arms law. The same is true here. You can give shelter to a person without knowing his or her place of residence. Can you help a person with transport without knowing that he is here illegally? I am not in any way opposed to the fact that there are places in the Aliens Act and we need to make it easier to expel people. But here we are simply out in such a contextual outrage that I am careful to give the courts a mandate that they should always exercise in such a judgment. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134942	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427134943	Thank you. I should just like to ask whether it would change anything for the Socialist People's Party if we specified in the comments that it is a deliberate violation of Article 59 that is at issue. In other words, I am in favour of it if it is an unintentional or unintentional act in which one simply does not know that he or she is not legally resident in Denmark. However, if it is specifically a question of giving the foreigner concerned the opportunity to evade the legitimate expulsion of the authorities, then there must be a tougher sanction. Could we agree that far?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135017	No, I don't think we could agree. But I think that the proposal would be better if that amendment were made, because hopefully that would solve the problem that I also raised in my speech, in other words, in relation to doing so without being actively aware of it. But I still think that we should look at matters in the context in which they are, and I think it is extremely important to say that in these cases we would always have to deport ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135041	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135042	How far would the Socialist People's Party think you should go? Should it be where people are exploited who are in a weak situation before they have to lose their place of residence themselves? So, we talked earlier about at the request of the Minister that a unified Parliament, that is. SF too, of course, has voted in favour of the idea that if an employer exploits people who have an illegal residence, it must have an increased sanction and so on. When does the SF even think it should be said that someone who hides an illegal immigrant in Denmark in his home or in any other way should lose his or her place of residence if at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135116	I find that difficult to set a precise limit on. However, I agree that when you commit serious crime, it is perfectly legitimate that you can be expelled from it. And it is also about how many people it is that you have helped with illegal immigration and what else you could have done on top of that which can contribute to it. I find it difficult to have a precise limit, but I really think we have some fairly good rules in this area now, and I also trust in the legal system, in terms of taking advantage of the opportunity to send people out when it is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135151	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135204	Thank you, President. Apparently, we don't have many people today about the offer. I'll be brief. I think this is a very fine proposal for the Danish People's Party, but the reality is that the penalty framework is already up to 2 years to help illegal foreigners, and we think that is a fine framework for punishment. The problem is that it does not always lead to expulsion, and one of the proposals we have made ourselves is to remove the stairwell model in Danish legal policy. It is the case today that if someone comes straight to Denmark and commits something criminal, it is actually quite easy to expel people, for example. for that offence, but if you have been here for 5 or 9 years respectively, you have to rise to very, very violent sentences in order to be expelled. The stair ladder, which means that the longer you have been here, the more extensive the crime must be before you are deported, we want to eliminate, and when it hopefully is removed we have actually heard some positive indications from the minister on that, an offence of this nature will actually also lead to expulsion. So we think it is a fine proposal, but we do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135313	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135324	Thank you. There is in some way a big difference between what you want to be implemented in the Danish People's Party with this resolution, namely to be able to expel foreigners legally resident in Denmark, and then the problem you are trying to solve with the resolution, namely that there are people staying illegally in Denmark. When you read the proposal, there is a very long explanation of how many illegal aliens there are in Denmark and what it causes from ills. I can agree with that part of the proposal, because it is a problem that we have some backers who make money from trafficking in human beings, both in the construction and in the sex industry. This is an issue that we in the Enhedslist are very concerned about, and since we entered into the police settlement, I have held the Minister of Justice in my ears to ensure that the extra funds we were given to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings actually brings an improvement in our efforts. Where the film breaks completely in this proposal, there is where the solution will be to expel foreigners who are legally resident for something that is already a criminal offence and therefore already has an impact on your residence permit. However, nowhere in the proposal has there been a single example of a legal resident who has committed this crime. All kinds of figures are mentioned, for example. as much as 49,000 illegals, but nowhere is there a single example of a foreigner legally resident having been the reason why there are people illegally in Denmark. Therefore, it is impossible to solve the problem of extending the expulsion provisions when they are not the reason why we have the problem in Denmark. We have some very strict expulsion rules in Denmark, and although the Danish People's Party does not really recognise that the Convention on Human Rights is important and sets an important minimum standard for how we treat people, it is now the case that Denmark has acceded to the Convention, and therefore we are also bound by it fortunately because I have to say that. So, although a great deal of work is being done by the authors of the motion for a resolution to get us out of the human rights convention, which is a subject, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and I have also discussed several times on other occasions, and we have now signed up to the Convention. We believe in the Enhedslisten that we should no longer go to the edge of the conventions, but that we should stand on the shoulders of the conventions, so that they do not become a ceiling, but a minimum. It is therefore surprising that a democratic party chooses to make a proposal, knowing that it may be contrary to fundamental rights. Human rights are not some random project about making life miserable or difficult for the government or Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. This is the absolute minimum limit on how to treat people in our society. If we withdraw from it or refuse to grant the rights deriving from the Convention, then we also go in and say that people do not deserve a dignified life, and we in the Enhedslist think that is not right. I don't think that's surprising. Morten Messerschmidt or other authors of the motion that Enhedslisten cannot support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135657	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135700	There is, of course, something paradoxical about the speech that Mrs Lund chose to make here, because she says first of all that there are no foreigners hiding illegal aliens and then rushing into a long, human-righteous account of how important it is not to violate human rights for those foreigners who so allegedly do not exist. So, there you have to find out, is there anyone out there hiding illegal immigrants or is there no one out there? I think there is someone out there, because the figure we can see from the ROCKWOOL Foundation shows that there are currently up to perhaps 30,000 immigrants staying illegally in Denmark and they are of course being helped by someone. And it may well be that it is Danish citizens who do all of that. I don't know. But if so, this proposal will just have no effect. So it is not going to stop Mrs Lund from voting in favour of it. Because I think there are quite a lot of foreigners who are stepping in to ensure that this whole industry, or whatever it is, of illegal immigrants can stay in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135806	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135808	Well, I agree with the authors of the motion that it is a problem that there are people staying illegally in Denmark and that trafficking in human beings is a huge problem, including in Denmark, and we must deal with that. And that's exactly why it was one of the things that was important for the Enhedslisten to get into the agreement on police finances. What I'm just saying, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, is that when the Danish People's Party cannot give a single example of immigrants who are legally resident in Denmark, who are responsible for keeping this so-called industry alive, then it is not this that is going to solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135841	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135843	Well, now I take it from what I heard from the Minister that there are probably a few of those who are convicted under Section 59 who are not Danish citizens. What is the big question is that if Mrs Rosa Lund and the Enhedslisten care so much about not having such an illegal underclass of immigrants in Denmark, why not do something extra hard to those who hold their hands that this can happen? In other words, they are the ones who ensure that these illegal immigrants • Mrs Rosa Lund mentioned some of them earlier can stay in Denmark. You can't just go out and rent an apartment or buy a house if you don't have a legal stay. So it's hard. So there are some who like to assist them, and why do you not want to take more action against it when you are
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135921	Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427135923	Well, we'd love to do that, too, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, but it is unfortunately from my perspective that Enhedslisten does not have support for all his politics inside this hall. But we are leaving, for example. Inside, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, that you make a criminalisation of customers into prostitution. That would mean something to the industry, which certainly takes up a great deal in relation to human trafficking. Something else we are in favour of is better protection against social dumping and control of illegal labour in our construction industry. However, we do not always have the support to achieve this. But if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt wants to be a part of this, Enhedslisten is ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140001	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And the rapporteur I now see is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140022	Thank you, President. According to the Rockwool Foundation's research unit, there is a huge amount of foreigners in Denmark who are staying without a legal residence and this, of course, creates a whole series of problems. Some of them we have tried to deal with, as the Minister has mentioned, by making more severe penalties for unscrupulous employers, who are therefore using illegal labour, who are constantly living in a life of anxiety about being under surveillance or being discovered and thus being thrown out, and who are therefore not part of the public and official system, and who therefore probably also go to some wages and schemes which are very, very far from what we usually associate with the Danish labour market. But there's another side of the coin. There is also the element that, with regard to the many foreigners who are legally resident in Denmark, it is of course extremely demotivating and demoralizing that it does not have a stronger consequence that one can be in Denmark possibly as deported or otherwise where one is thus illegally here. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party would like to tighten up the penalty, not for those who have been expelled because it is so good that we can get rid of the stray vessels, criminal aliens etc. If one imagines that the perhaps 20,000, perhaps 30,000, perhaps 40,000 foreigners who are so illegally staying in Denmark will generally find it difficult to get a lease or acquire a dwelling, etc., then it does not require so much imagination to come to the conclusion that they probably have someone to help themselves refuse this expulsion and thus stay in Denmark, and it is probably not quite so out of the question to imagine that many of those who then help illegal immigrants in Denmark are themselves immigrants, and that is why, if we want to do something about the first problem, it is also absolutely crucial that we do something about the second problem. And that is where I think the present structure, as the Minister explained, where you can be sentenced up to 2 years in prison if you house an illegal immigrant in Denmark, and if you are convicted of it, then you can be expelled from Denmark afterwards, is simply too lacking. If we are going to put an end to this injustice of illegal immigrants, we need a much faster and much more consistent process, from the illegal act of housing the illegal immigrant, to the disappearance of the residence of the foreigner in question who has done this, and that was what we in the Danish People's Party had perhaps a rather naive hope of being able to obtain a majority for today. The government, as always, is rosy in its speech and black as the night in its action... nothing is going to happen... but I feel that in the bourgeois parties at least there is an understanding of the problem and also a response to the need for something to happen. Whether this is the solution that we in the Danish People's Party are suggesting here, we can talk about after a parliamentary election, where hopefully things will look more blue and thus brighter. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140337	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140350	The debate is open, and first it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140411	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for presenting B 182. The motion for a resolution is a simplification of the rules on expulsion of foreigners and, as the authors themselves note, we discussed the same motion for a resolution last year. The government continues to have the same attitude and approach as when we last discussed the resolution. Our position is that criminal foreigners should be expelled as far as possible. As the proposers correctly mention, the rules of the Aliens Act on expulsion are based on a so-called stairwell model, in which the conditions of expulsion are tightened as the duration of the stay in Denmark is extended. In addition, the model has been supplemented by rules which extend the right of expulsion by imposing unconditional prison sentences in a number of forms of crime and where expulsion is required, unless it is certainly contrary to international obligations. This is true, for example. crimes against the security of the state, crimes involving persons, serious crimes of enrichment, drug crimes and violations of arms law. The purpose of the supplementary rules is to ensure that certain crimes can result in expulsion regardless of the duration of the alien's stay in the country and regardless of the length of the sentence. In other words, there is a derogation from the ladder model, which means that in all cases, unless this is contrary to Denmark's international obligations, it must be deported. When we talk about expulsions not being contrary to international obligations, Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, on the right to respect for private and family life, is particularly relevant. It follows from that article that interference with that right must be proportionate to the purposes for which it is intended and, in the balance of proportionality, include a number of factors, including the nature and gravity of the crime, but also the duration of the stay in the country of residence. This means that the duration of a foreigner's stay must always be included in the concrete assessment of whether expulsion can take place within the framework of our international obligations. This is also the case in cases where, under the Aliens Act, there is an extension of the right of expulsion and, therefore, there is the right of expulsion, regardless of how long the alien has lived here. As I indicated here from the platform a year ago when we dealt with a similar proposal, the lawyers in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Justice are examining the possibilities that exist within the framework of the international conventions to further tighten the rules on expulsion, and in this respect I also said that this is a work which takes time and is needed for us to think through all the possibilities properly, and that is actually still the case. Against this background, the government cannot support the resolution, but we are in fact in agreement with the intentions behind the proposal and hope to be able to table a legislative proposal on actually roughly the same thing at the beginning of the next parliamentary assembly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140715	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140716	Thank you, Minister. In fact, I think that was a very positive response. Normally, we do not retable our proposal unless there is really a reason for it, and the reason for this is precisely that the Minister was positive a year ago and said that this is something we want to continue working on. But then nothing happened. So can the Minister say with relatively great certainty that in the coming session, in other words after the summer holidays, there will be a legislative proposal where we come as close as we can within the framework at all, to remove this stair ladder model, so that the longer you have been in Denmark, you can avoid being expelled even if you have committed large-scale crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140757	Yeah. The honest answer is probably also that I had hoped that we could deal with it here in the Assembly this spring, but we simply did not. Then Parliament will again open its first Tuesday in October and the government will present its legislative programme, and I dare say with 99% certainty that there will be a legislative proposal to tighten up the rules on expulsion in that legislative programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140817	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140819	Great! I would just like to say that it is better late than never, and of course I respect the fact that the work that needs to be done must be done properly, so although we would rather have seen it in this session, I would say that the whole purpose of putting this forward is to push the Minister a little. I do not know whether that is what has meant that it will finally come to the next session, but we are at least glad that it will come and thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140841	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140844	That's the way it can be done. Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Minister, and then we go further in the rapporteur's line, and then it is Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427140855	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party proposes to simplify section 22-24 of the Aliens Act, so the length of a foreigner's stay in Denmark as a starting point is not an attenuating circumstance in relation to judgments on expulsion of Denmark. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to abolish the temporal rebate after 5 and 9 years' stay in Denmark, respectively, but not to change other circumstances which might prevent expulsion. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that criminal foreigners should be expelled from Denmark as far as possible, as long as this is in line with the international obligations that we have signed up to and which Conservatives, as I know, also support. As it is a matter of re-existence from last year, I am probably repeating myself in this speech. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration is examining whether there is a possibility of further tightening the expulsion rules so that more criminal foreigners can be expelled within the framework of our international obligations. In addition, we believe that it is important that we constantly examine the possibility of extending the right of expulsion when foreigners commit crime. The Social Democratic Party therefore does not support the proposal because, as I said, work is already under way in the Ministry with a view to tightening the rules on expulsion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141003	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141004	Thank you. After all, the Minister has actually said what the rapporteur also says, and of course I would like to thank and sign for that. Perhaps we could have been this debate in addition, if the Ministry had informed us that this bill was on the way, but with delay, because after last year's discussion of exactly the same question, the Minister said he was going to table a bill. It hasn't been hired, and that's why we call this. So another time you might just want to send us an e-mail saying this is coming, it just comes with delay.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141036	Well, I'll pass that on to the minister, and next time we'll consider sending an e-mail to sir. Marcus Knuth, when we plan to make a bill, as we believe Mr. Knuth. Marcus Knuth has sympathy for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141047	This is how we can reduce many debates in the Parliamentary Assembly. There are no more brief comments. We're moving on, and now it's sir. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141104	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we continue to believe that the length of a foreigner's stay in Denmark should not be an attenuating circumstance when there are convictions of expulsion. We therefore want to abolish what is popularly called the stairwell model. With us in the lead, the rules on expulsion have been tightened up considerably, which means that more criminal foreigners are being expelled in Denmark today than in the past, but there are still many criminal foreigners who are not being expelled, and we want to work for that to be changed in general. The expulsion rules must be tightened so that foreigners who commit serious crime are expelled from Denmark and returned to their home country. Denmark must not be the home of criminal foreigners. A place to start is to drop the so-called stair ladder model, for the fact that a foreigner has been living in Denmark for 5 or 10 years does not make a serious offence more or less acceptable. Since the same proposal was proposed last year, nothing has happened. We can then understand that there is work going on. However, that does not change the fact that the Left supports the present resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141216	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141217	That is really just a brief comment. I would just like to thank the Left and also the Left Legal Rapporteur, who advised me when we started looking at this. Because it's crazy that the longer you stay in Denmark, the more violent crime you can commit without being expelled. So, thank you to the Left for backing up, and the rapporteur can also pass on that to Mr Beazley. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141239	I promise I'll do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141243	Then there are no more brief comments and we go further in the rapporteur's line. Now it's sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141252	Thank you. As has also been mentioned earlier, this is a re-submission of an earlier proposal, which is why I am sure I will not be completely spared repeating myself. SF and I are, in fact, convinced that with so many people on the run as there are around the world, Denmark's solidarity should not be put primarily to those who commit serious crime, and that is why we have also been instigators of tightening the law before, and that is why we have also been positive about proposals that have the right balance in showing more criminal foreigners, without that chamber in symbol politics. In the SF, we are basically of the opinion that we must do what we can to allow the courts to expel criminal foreigners who commit crime repeatedly or commit very hard crimes. It is essential for us to be able to solve the problems of integration in Denmark, and it is important that we do not spend our resources on those who have turned our backs on the community. To the more substantial aspect of the proposal that lies here, I would say that we have discussed it in the past, and the SF is today, as we were then, open to the part of the proposal which concerns the five years if and if it is possible to do so within Denmark's international obligations, but the part in nine years' time is of course about the fact that they often have such a strong attachment that it can be difficult to guarantee people's human rights. Anyway, we do not reject a review of what can be done in this area, but we also think it is a little too easy to propose something that is probably contrary to Denmark's international obligations, and then just write in the proposal, as has been done here, that an implementation should not be. It doesn't quite add up. So we do not think it can be adopted as it stands here. But I'm really looking forward to the government's initiative on this after the summer, and then we're gonna take a stand on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141443	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141444	I am positive and very pleased that the rapporteur is coming up with this far along the way. But in relation to the nine years, that is to say until the Minister has stated that that part would be against the conventions, I would say that all other things being equal, we are proposing that this should be introduced within the conventions, as long as we insist that this should be carried out within the conventions, why can the rapporteur not just back it up?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141510	There are several reasons for this, but it is my immediate assessment because, as it is arranged here, it probably does not comply with the conventions. Then you write that it should do so, but then it is difficult to support it, because then you say that it must be implemented so that it complies with the conventions, but it does not necessarily do so, as it stands, and then you cannot implement it. So I think it is a bit contradictory and I would not think it sensible to vote through the proposal as it stands here, but I am very willing to discuss the proposal that the government is making, because I see why you can be critical of this rebate or what to say. However, it is absolutely essential for the SF to respect human rights, and if we are to change the legislation here, it must be on a proper basis. I think it's good that the government is working with a look at how you could do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141558	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we can go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Kathrine Oldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141613	Thank you, President. In the Radical Left, we do not support this proposal either, nor did we when it was tabled last year. We are actually quite satisfied with the stair model as it is, although we are actually also open to what the Minister will end up with later. I might as well use the opportunity to actually just outline what the Radical Left's approach is to this area. We are also not interested in rewarding foreigners who come here and commit a lot of crime, perhaps over and over again, by leaving them here. As far as we are concerned, they must be sent home and there we are completely in line with the other rapporteurs who have been up here. Where the discussion often starts for us and what we care about is proportionality, that is, how serious this crime should be. If you have to get a traffic ticket, do you have to drive too fast and have your driver's license taken? So the question is where are the limits to when expulsion is to take place and when is it not to take place? That is the discussion we find interesting. Basically, however, foreigners who do not want us, and who show it by committing serious crime, must be repatriated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141732	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141733	Now I do not quite understand the rapporteur if the rapporteur says that people who commit serious crime should be expelled, but that this cannot be backed up. So does the rapporteur think that it is okay that the longer you have been in Denmark, the more serious crime you have to commit before you can be expelled? That's what we don't think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141749	I fully agree with that, but I think that in the proposal before us there are at least a number of Convention problems, as I read it. And there it is that exactly the stair model is one of the things we have put into the law, precisely to take account of the Convention problems we are running into. So in view of the fact that the Minister is about to sit down and look at it: the conventions and judgments of the Court of Human Rights are also flexible sizes; judgments are interpreted and the various decisions in different countries come through the mill. And sometimes we adjust a little, and we're willing to. But as the proposal is before us, it simply goes too far, Mr President. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141830	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141831	But we say clearly that it must of course be resolved within the conventions, and everything else equal is a resolution, that is to say, a proposal, something to be introduced or negotiated, and in this case it must be implemented within the conventions. So since we are saying that it should be implemented within the conventions, how can the rapporteur use the conventions as an argument that we cannot vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141855	Then it is possible that Mr. Marcus Knuth and I read the proposal differently. Now it's sir. Marcus Knuth, who has put it forward, so he must know his own intentions fully, but when I read it, I read problems with the conventions, and that is why we have to say that as far as this proposal goes, we cannot be involved. But let's see if we can't meet somewhere along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141911	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we are moving forward, and now it is Mrs Rosa Lund, the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427141927	I no longer have any figures on how many times the Conservative People's Party has tabled resolutions in this parliamentary year, which is one way or another about showing that we are in favour of a very strict immigration policy. I think that is fair enough, because motions for resolutions are the very tool we can use to show where they are that we want to change the rules and what policies we stand for. But I'd also like to say that we have. We understand, sir. Marcus Knuth: Out with the strangers. We understand. I must also say that this motion for a resolution that we are now debating is no longer just a matter of political disagreement. Well, we know that Mr. Knox... Marcus Knuth and I, Conservatives and Enhedslisten, do not share conviction in this area. We know that. I think that a little effort could be made and, at least, a motion for a resolution which is within the framework of the Convention on Human Rights. Otherwise we will have to put forward a motion for a resolution, as Mr von der Vring has said. Morten Messerschmidt often says that Denmark will withdraw completely from the Convention. It would be a little strange if the Conservatives were not in favour of human rights anymore, but if you read this proposal, you can be a little in doubt. The time limits make sense, for as it results from the Human Rights Convention, you may well have been here in Denmark for 5 or 9 years and still could not be expelled. The time limits in the law are only a minimum standard; it is not an automatic process where you can just throw people out and luckily for it. To call it a simplification of the expulsion rules is perhaps to push it when what you really want is a marked tightening, which is a fair political wish to have, but then you have to call it that. All the austerity that has been introduced has, of course, just made our alien law a big mess and, to say the least, a mack of a law with tightening on tightening on tightening. Our alien law is, of course, one big patchwork, and I think most people actually agree on that, regardless of what is politically felt about the tightening. We also see this in the context of the special law we have created for Ukrainian refugees, where we have had to go in and make special provisions because it simply does not work in the form it has. That was the debate we had here in the Parliamentary Chamber yesterday. We have extremely strict expulsion rules in Denmark in advance, and I can hardly imagine that they can be tightened up without compromising human rights. If it is the Conservatives' view that we should withdraw from the international conventions that we as a country have acceded to, I think that is the proposal that needs to be put forward. Finally, I would just like to say that I am pleased that, in the paper of understanding with the majority in this House, we have decided that we should no longer go to the edge of the conventions, but that we now respect the human rights convention, the refugee convention and the other conventions to which Denmark has acceded. That is why the Enhedslisten cannot support this motion for a resolution, and I do not assume that Mr. Marcus Knuth was counting on our support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427142300	A brief comment from Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427142301	I would say that the only thing I would agree with the rapporteur is the last thing I had not expected with the support of the Enhedslisten. But frankly, I find it deeply irresponsible that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten is standing on the platform of the Danish Parliament and saying that this is about just being Conservatives who want to get the strangers out. So, seriously, this is about the fact that if you commit serious crime in Denmark, it is harder to expel people, the longer they have been here. It is about a legal ladder that makes it really, really difficult to expel people, even for serious crime, when they have been here for 5 years, and that is even fewer after 9 years. So I would hope that the rapporteur will be a little more serious in his approach, not least with the rapporteur's legal background, forward-looking. Then the rapporteurs come up with a long song about the conventions. In other words, we have just had the minister on the floor and he has said that he will table a bill motivated by our motion for a resolution, within the conventions, based on this for the next assembly of parliaments. Why, then, is it that the rapporteur is talking about that it would be a breach of the conventions? Does the rapporteur expect the Minister to break the conventions with the bill that is coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427142409	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427142410	I can reassure you, sir. Marcus Knuth says that we in Enhedslisten take this very seriously, just as we take Denmark's contractual obligations very seriously. And that's why I think that Mr. Marcus Knuth needs to think about why the government hasn't made that bill yet. That is probably because it is a legislative proposal that is really difficult to make within the framework of the conventions, because it would be contrary to the conventions. That is certainly our clear view in the Enhedslisten. And I think that Mr. Marcus Knuth knows that in the Enhedslisten we are happy to discuss in principle whether to be part of the conventions or not. But I also think that the Conservative People's Party must tone clean flags and say whether this is about whether or not we are in favour of the conventions. Because that's fair enough if you don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427142456	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427142457	Frankly, we have said time and time again that this must be carried out within the framework of the conventions. Now the Minister, motivated by us, comes up with a draft law within the conventions, so what the rapporteur is saying here is totally biased in relation to the truth. So, if I may ask the rapporteur: when the Minister in the forthcoming session presents a legislative proposal that solves part of this within the conventions, does the Enhedslisten expect to back that bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427142522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427142523	I find it very difficult to see how to do what this motion for a resolution is trying to do within the framework of the conventions. And that is why my bid will be, unfortunately, for Conservatives and Mr. Marcus Knuth, it's gonna be a while before this government bill comes in. Because it must be precisely within the framework of the conventions. And I can't stand here and say what the Enhedslisten will vote for a bill we haven't seen yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427142547	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no further brief comments, and that means that we will move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427142600	Thank you, President. Far more drastic measures are needed in foreign policy than the government is proposing. This is, of course, particularly true in relation to the expulsion rules. It has gradually become an established fact that the very violent immigration that we have had, especially from the Muslim world, must be halted. We have on several occasions signed that the Social Democratic Party, which, after decades of travel, has gone from thinking that it was not roomy, to recognizing the need today, has come to terms with this. But then we are still missing the second, and not least the central part, namely to clear up the consequences of the neglects that have been caused by the many decades in which they have just been left to stand. That is how it is at home with us, and there I mean both where I live and in my party, that you clean up after yourself. And so it must also be when, as a party, you have committed, on behalf of the Danes and Denmark, fatal errors. Then it is not enough just to say that we have understood it and that we do not want more immigration. Then you also have a bottom-up job to ensure that the fatal immigration that you have voted for at the same time as you have scolded people like Pia Kjærsgaard others who are not living rooms and all of this is solved. And there are far too many foreigners in Denmark today who are not in either heart or action part of Denmark that they have taken up only in the economic field. There are far too many who are not in the labour market, too many who are criminals and too many who have never taken to heart the ideals of freedom and the whole freedom of thought and thought that we call the Danes, and who therefore live parallel lives in some form of Muslim way of thinking. And these people don't belong in Denmark. They are not Danes, and that is why they must of course be helped as soon as possible to a place where the surroundings are more suited to their place of belonging to the place where they come from. And all instruments that can achieve that goal within the Constitution will be supported wholeheartedly by the Danish People's Party. That is why we welcome the proposal made today by the Conservative People's Party. But it also says that there are other parties that are in a movement. It is not only the Social Democracy that has moved from those times with Mrs Birthe Weiss and Mr. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen and others who thought that immigration would only be a blessing. It is also a journey that the Conservative People's Party has been on. And then there's both the long journey and I don't think about John V. Jensen and the short journey. The long journey on which the Social Democratic Party has been going is of course interesting because you can actually see a side shift. What is interesting about the Conservative People's Party is that it has been a historic short journey. It hasn't been a long time since mr. Søren Pape Poulsen was in the Ministry of Justice. It wasn't even three years ago. And there were many of the things that I understand today are Mr. Marcus Knuth's heart blood in the field of aliens, which was completely unthinkable. And that is why it is not interesting just to look at the proposals made by the Conservative People's Party in the summer of 2022. It's also interesting to see this journey you've been on. And where does it lead? It is quite interesting if you move beyond the square of the circle, even if you end up stopping halfway, meaning the opposite of what you meant three years ago. Or if you just continue and then end up where you were three years ago. And that would be a real shame. I would venture to claim that it can be said that in Denmark we have two conservative folk parties. What was there when Mr. Thompson... Søren Pape Poulsen was Minister of Justice, how much is being proposed today could not be done at all, and so what you have now, when Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen is in opposition. I like much better, I must honestly admit, the sir. Søren Pape Poulsen, who is in opposition. However, the aim is, of course, that what is meant in opposition should also be translated into politics, by eventually gaining power and coming into government and obtaining a majority. That is why I would like to say that just as enthusiastic we are when the Conservative People's Party, as we know it today, puts forward tighter proposals in the field of foreigners, we are, of course, just as enthusiastic about getting a guarantee that it will actually mean it when we hope to be able to translate it into reality soon. So that you stop your journey when you get away from what you once meant and say where we in the Danish People's Party have stood steady and firm since we were founded; that you do not just continue and end up thinking what you meant once, i.e. if you were going to get back into government. That's also important, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143104	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143106	Thank you for that very fine speech to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. I think it was Hans Christian Andersen who said that travel is to live, and all parties are continuously out on a journey. Well, I can assure you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt says that the Conservative People's Party is not out in such a circular economic exercise, where we then end up back where we started. The journey we are on is, of course, very much motivated by, among others. The Danish People's Party, which has both caused politicians in here, various parties, and the Danes to see that we have to pursue a strict immigration policy so that we do not end up with riots like those we have just seen in Sweden. So just one comment on it, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt says in relation to our time in government: Morten Messerschmidt knows that when you are part of a government, you cannot simply implement the policy you want as a party. There you also have to look at your government partners and whether you can get 90 seats. So there are large parts of our policy that we unfortunately did not get through when we were in government. But when we are opposition, perhaps we can say it a little clearer than when we were part of a government, and that is what we are doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143212	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143213	Well, then, I don't know if I'm gonna be happy or be sorry for the journey that Mr. Marcus Knuth himself has been on, because I understand it is about the Left, which has been the block of the Conservative People's Party. There's no good for people to run out of the square, so to speak, sir. Marcus Knuth is elected for the Left, and then he has changed the tab now and has become conservative as the Conservative People's Party has decided to become conservative. But it will not work if the Left Party loses all its good nationally anchored men and women, so I hope that Mr. Marcus Knuth retains his position as liaison officer to the Left Party and ensures that it is people like Mr. Mads Birded and not people like... Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, who will be leading in the future Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143252	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143253	I now consider myself to be a liaison officer for all sensible parties, and I hope that we will be able to work together to get all, especially blue parties, in the same direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143303	I would very much like to do that in common with Mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143309	Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143323	Thank you so much. In new citizens, we believe that criminal foreigners must be deported consistently and after the first sentence. We also believe that if you have been granted Danish citizenship and you commit crime and get a sentence of liberty, then the Danish citizenship granted must be withdrawn and you must be expelled. It is quite right, as has been said in the Chair in the past, that there has been a completely misguided immigration policy which has had some very, very severe consequences for Denmark. That is why new citizens' boats were formed, but also again and again say that we need to solve immigration policy from scratch. Then let it be the words from here. Of course we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143405	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Mette Thiesen. And then I cannot see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber, apart from the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143424	Thank you, President. I shall be very brief, because the purpose of convening this debate was precisely to follow up the statements made by the Minister at the last meeting, where the Minister said that this resolution was something the Minister would be working on; that it is wrong that the longer the time that foreigners have been in Denmark, the harder it is to expel them for crime than it is to expel foreigners who have just come here and have committed the same kind of crime. And then we waited, waited and waited, and nothing really happened, and then we thought that we should press the minister a little. Now we hear that there is work going on and that, as I heard from the Minister, there is at least some ninety per cent of security coming up with a legislative proposal that will come up with this in the forthcoming assembly of parliaments as far as possible. So I would like to thank the Minister for that and, of course, thank the blue parties who also support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143515	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427143600	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for presenting B 172, a proposal for public information that, before New Year's, the government is putting forward a bill abolishing the right of permanent residence for young people under the age of 19 who have been in full-time employment or in education since primary school and who fulfil the basic conditions laid down in the legislation. It is proposed that young people should be given a five-year residence permit, which can be extended so that young people can work or study. At the same time, young people must comply with the general rules for permanent residence permits and the residence permit must be subject to the condition that young people do not commit or commit crime and do not receive cash benefits for more than three months in the last five years. I believe that the granting of permanent residence permits should take into account the fact that young people are at the age of training. That is why we do not impose employment requirements. However, young people must fulfil all the other basic conditions. That is both sensible and reasonable. The proposal will mean that a young person who has completed his or her education at the age of 25 will then have to work for 31⁄2 years and be close to 30 years before he or she obtains a permanent residence permit. I don't think we can be familiar with that. As I indicated earlier, I believe that the youth scheme should instead be adjusted to allow young people to need to change their direction of education. The scheme for young people does not mean that it is only very limited requirements that young people must meet, as otherwise stated in the proposal. Young people have to fulfil the other conditions for permanent residence, for example. 8 years of legal residence and Danish knowledge, and young people must not have committed serious crime or received cash benefits. The proposal also says that 99 per cent. of those who avail themselves of the youth rule are foreigners from outside the EU, but the figures to which the proposers refer relate only to foreigners who are granted permanent residence permits under the Aliens Act. EU citizens use and obtain virtually only permanent residence under EU rules, and it is not surprising that it is especially young people from, among others. the countries referred to by the proposers, for example: Turkey, Iraq, Somalia, former Yugoslavia and Afghanistan. There is a reason why it is primarily they who use the scheme, as there are relatively many foreigners from precisely the countries in Denmark. If young people get permanent residence according to the youth rule, it is because they meet the conditions relating to Danish, crime and self-reliance and because they have been active since primary school. It is an expression that they are integrated and part of Danish society. Among other things, the proposers stress that many of those who apply the youth rule later commit crime or end up on public support. I recognise that we have integration problems in Denmark, but in relation to young people who take advantage of the youth rule, I actually think that the picture is a little more nuanced. The figures to which the proposers refer include not only foreigners who have taken advantage of the youth rule, but all between 18 and 21 years of age who have obtained permanent residence. And that's how 89 percent. of all foreigners aged between 18 and 21 who have been permanently resident in the years 2010 to 2017, at least for the following three years, have not received benefits under the Act on Active Social Policy. Of those who have then received benefits, some have received benefits more temporarily, for example. for a total of 1 month or a few months. It is true, as the authors say, that 19 per cent. of the foreigners who were permanently resident in the period 2010-2015 have subsequently been convicted of crime. It is also too many, but the conditions for obtaining permanent residence since then have been significantly tightened in both 2016 and 2017, as well as the conditions for caring times and vandal requirements. So foreigners who want permanent residence permits today and in the period following the tightening-up are meeting with a number of clearly sharper demands that reflect their willingness and capacity for integration, and this must of course have consequences for those who cannot find out, and it will have consequences for those who cannot find out. In addition to the consequences of criminal law, the courts in the case of serious crime also take a position on the issue of expulsion. I do not think that we should limit the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits for young people who contribute positively to society, even for young people who are active after primary school. The rule should be retained with the adjustment I have already announced that the government will put forward legislative proposals: that it should take into account that young people may have good reasons to want to change the direction of education. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144013	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144017	We're gonna think these rules are totally fucked up. If it is the case that you apply for permanent residence at the age of 18, you must not meet any employment or further education requirements, and you may even have committed large-scale crime. The figures here speak their clear language. 19% of the young people who use this scheme commit crime after the grant of permanent residence, but if you notice that you come from Iran, Iraq or Somalia, it is almost 30% who commit crime. So why not do what we are proposing here: abolish the system and then create another system which is of a shorter duration and which is conditional on the prevention of crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144057	I should like to start by saying that you cannot get permanent residence under this scheme if you have committed serious crime. It is true that there are some who, after they have been permanently resident, violate the criminal code and are punished afterwards, but I think that the general picture of this group is that most of them are fairly well integrated, and it is of course people who have often come here at a very young age and who have then grown up in some families where parents have not received citizenship, and then they stand as 18-year-olds and do not have their own independent residence basis. And then I think it's fair to say to them: If you passed primary school and you didn't commit serious crime, you'll get a permanent residence permit.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144136	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the Minister, so we start with the rapporteurs and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144152	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party proposes to abolish the current fixed track system for permanent stays for residents of 18-19 years who have been in Denmark for at least 8 years. In addition, it is proposed to set up a new scheme whereby 18-19-year-olds are granted a temporary residence permit of five years' duration with the possibility of extension, where they are given the opportunity to work or study in Denmark. At the same time, they have the possibility of obtaining permanent residence in accordance with the normal rules applicable to other foreigners. In the Social Democratic Party, we basically believe that it is reasonable for young people who have lived most of their lives in Denmark to have easier access to permanent residence. They are in a period of their lives, typically characterised by education. That is why we cannot support Conservatives' motion for a resolution. In fact, we propose to change the rules so that it becomes more flexible for young people to change their education without having to find themselves in a position to get caught up in the rules and thus refuse permanent residence on the basis of a change of school. Social democracy does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144251	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144253	I am very sorry, because the rapporteur used to be known as someone who thinks that criminal foreigners should not just have a residence permit in Denmark, and if that is the point of view, why just grant an 18-year-old permanent stay without the requirements that apply to everyone else? Now we have had the discussion earlier today with the Secretary of State for American Benjamin, who has come here from a top university, and he has work, but the rules are so complex that it is almost impossible for him to have permanent residence. But if you're an 18-year-old and you've come here from Iraq or Somalia, you'll be given it without any demands whatsoever. Why not at least make it conditional on young people not committing crime during the first few years?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144333	It is true that I am not in favour of having a permanent residence permit if you commit crime, but in other words, the rules have now been knitted together so that you do not get a permanent residence permit. After all, there has been quite a sharp increase in the performance requirements in 2016 and 2017, as far as I remember, and this changes the picture significantly compared to some of the examples that Mr. Marcus Knuth also mentioned in connection with the questions to the Minister earlier today with the citizen with whom he had had a meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144402	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144403	But the reality is that for this group, the 18-19-year-olds who just get a permanent residence permit, there is a huge statistic showing that for example. almost 30%. from Iran, Iraq and Somalia commit crime subsequently. Does the rapporteur really think that is okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144422	It is true that there has been a very high proportion, but that is also the reason why the rules have been tightened up quite significantly, so that you do not get access to permanent residence so easily, for example. In this context, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. And when it comes to people who are born and raised in Denmark, it should also be remembered that the vast majority would not be characterised by being criminals, and that is why I think this Conservative proposal is a little disproportionately.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144453	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Here you go, sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144508	Thank you for the floor. In the Left, we basically believe that we must make strict demands on the foreigners who are in Denmark, especially when it comes to obtaining permanent residence permits and subsequent citizenship. That's why we helped tighten the requirements for Danish citizenship when we entered into the citizenship agreement last year. That is also why, as a government party, we tightened the rules, as Mr. Rasmus Stoklund, back in 2016 and afterwards again in 2017. Today, the demands for foreigners who want to be in Denmark are tight and consistent. The motion for a resolution tabled here by the Conservatives does not seem to us to be part of this strict immigration policy. The motion for a resolution is part of some policy which, in our optics, is aimed mostly at making life harder for foreigners born and raised in the country and who continue to want to be part of Danish society when they are 18 years old. Preserve, there will be some of those who commit crime, but that is why we should not make rules that punish all those who have not committed crime yet. Then we need to focus on those who step next door. The motion for a resolution will only provide a small incentive for the residents of 18-19-year-olds to integrate into Danish society. We in the Left believe that it is both right and proper for young people who have not committed serious crime and who have followed primary school and are in higher education in Denmark or have worked, to have permanent residence in Denmark. Any court will judge that in those cases too, and that is why it would have a very small effect if we were to support it. We are not going to change our system so that it cannot contain these young people where we already think there are too few of those who take the door that points into Danish society. Among other things: our system in Denmark must be flexible enough to be able to misrepresent choices in education without having consequences for one's place of residence in the country. That must be common sense. That is why the Left cannot vote in favour of the resolution tabled by the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144731	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144734	I would like to say that I am very sorry about this and also to hear the rapporteur's comments, because we tend to think in the same way overall. The rapporteur makes it sound as if we are not going to grant a residence permit to 18-year-old young people. We are actually trying to land it in a sensible place where we say that if it is the case that one has come to Denmark as a young man and turns 18 years old, then one can, for example, do so. If, during the five years, you do not commit crime and do not hold back the system, you will comply with the rules for permanent residence. But if it is the case that large-scale crime is committed, then we can see that almost a third of those from Iraq, Iran and Somalia do so, then you do not get a permanent stay. Why does the rapporteur think that this is a step away from the tight immigration policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144820	We think it is a huge problem that there are young people who are not ethnic Danes who commit too much crime, but there are also many who choose to comply with the rules that are here, and we will not punish them in advance by adopting something like this. We do not believe that the proportion of young people who commit crime will be reduced by making their way into the Danish community any longer.Any court will nevertheless grant them a residence permit by adopting such a thing as this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144856	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144858	That is precisely why we say that, for example. is granted a 5-year-old, or it may also be a 6- or 7-year-old residence permit, and if it is the case that you belong to the group that does not commit crime, then you will automatically just drive on and get a permanent stay and shortly thereafter also be able to apply for Danish citizenship. So nobody's gonna get punished here. The only ones for which this will have an effect are those who commit crime, and I hope that the rapporteur thinks that it is a problem that almost 30%. of those from Iraq, Iran and Somalia commit crime after they have been permanently resident.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144927	We do not want anyone to commit crime, but when you make rules that make it harder in advance for a large group, some of which only step by the side, you also punish all those who do not step by the side. And I do not think there will be any fewer of those who want to be affected by this, i.e. inappropriate and unintegrated young people who are not ethnically Danish, by adopting this proposal, unfortunately, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427144954	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments and then we have reached the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145007	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, our rapporteur on this resolution could not be here today, so I have promised to read his speech. In SF we believe it is basically reasonable that young people who have spent most of their lives in Denmark are given the opportunity to have permanent residence. This must, of course, be matched by requirements for integration, and this is also the case with the current system. Danish 2 must be passed, you must not have debt, committed crime, receive public aid, and you must have been in continuous education. These are not small demands, but clear demands on young people's integration. I find it difficult to see that the proposal justifies the inadequacy of these requirements. It would be unfair to make the scheme limited in time, because we are talking about young people who have come to Denmark as children and who have spent the vast majority of their upbringing in Denmark. If the scheme becomes limited in time, we will create a starting point where these young people who have attended Danish primary school have Danish friends and who may already have been part of the labour market and who feel Danish do not deserve to get through the system more quickly. That's not fair. A temporary arrangement will leave these people in some kind of identity vacuum where they feel different because their many years in Denmark will have no impact on their access to permanent residence. I don't think we should meet young people who have lived here most of their lives. Having said that, it is clear that there are integration problems out there that we still have to resolve. We should not close our eyes to the fact that there is still a lot of work to be done. Unlike the proposers, however, I believe that we can gain a great deal from strengthening integration through a more inclusive and citizen-oriented thinking, where we grab young people and tell them that they must behave properly and that they must be integrated, but that we also have open arms and a flexible system of permanent residence if they do so. For the above reasons, I can inform you that the SF does not support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145202	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145204	I am, of course, very sorry about that, but the reality, as I have mentioned several times, is that almost 30%. of those from Iraq, Iran and Somalia who have a permanent stay in this lax system, then commit crime. If the rapporteur does not want to support what we are proposing here, namely that they should come into a temporary arrangement and that, if they do not commit crime, they should be able to have permanent residence, what will the rapporteur do to resolve the real problem of a great many young people, especially from these countries, who are using the permanent residence to subsequently commit crime and then turn their backs on Denmark, which has just granted them a permanent residence permit?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145245	That's 30%. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The majority are behaving properly. The majority participate in Danish society on an equal footing with everyone else, so the fact that a minority commits crime should not affect those who behave properly. After all, the rules are now so tight and tight that it is almost impossible to obtain a residence permit. And if you were to commit serious crime as a foreigner, it is also associated with quite significant and major consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145334	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145335	However, my question was exactly what the rapporteur will do about all those who commit crime. That is what we are trying to solve here by saying: everyone gets a temporary residence permit on, for example. Five years, and those who commit crime then lose it, but those who do not commit crime are rewarded with permanent residence. What will the rapporteur do about the very large group of people, particularly those from Iran, Iraq and Somalia, who commit crime? What is the rapporteur's solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145403	My solution is that we must insist on preventive measures. I mean, we need to strengthen our primary school and we need to look at our residential areas, which we already do. With the parallel society package, we have more in work, the lists have been halved and more young people are taking an education. It is all these social measures that have enabled us to make the progress that we are currently making, unlike many other countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145436	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Halime Oguz. And then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left, Mrs Kathrine Ollyday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145453	Thank you, President. It is no more than a few months ago we last talked about this scheme: the young people who have lived most of their lives or were born in this country but who do not have citizenship and who have been part of a family in which the parents have then had a temporary or permanent residence permit must, at the age of 18, establish their own basis of residence. At that time, we talked about this in the context of the fact that these young people experienced the rejection of their application for permanent residence because they changed training in the course they were in. At that time, the minister was also promised to look at these rules, and we're still going away looking forward to seeing what he's making up. But now Conservatives come up with a proposal that this group, Tajma and all those who actually belong to the same group, should be made even worse than they were in advance, namely that when they are 18 years old, they should not just have a temporary residence permit that they have had with their parents. No, no, then they must have their own temporary residence permit of 5 years, which they then have until they are 23 years old and then can start looking at permanent stays. So you postpone this right to take root or the right to define yourself as a Dane, to become an accomplished part of this society until sometime in the mid-20s, and if they first start a permanent stay there, they hit about 30 years before they even get close to permanent residence, and what about citizenship? You can hardly think of that. One in ten citizens of this country is born without Danish citizenship. It is a huge problem in itself, seen radically. We are going to punish a very, very large group of law-abiding young people who just want to get started being an accomplished and full part of this society, by introducing a rule that Conservatives are putting forward today. In fact, I am a little shocked that we could end up discussing such a proposal as this today at the back of the whole debate on Tajma. I am very, very pleased that even the Left thinks that it is equally quite crude. So in those words, as it is clear that Radicals do not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145702	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145703	Then I will ask the same question I have asked before. Does the rapporteur think it right that an excessive, excessive number of young people from Iraq, Iran and Somalia in particular should use the permanent residence permit to commit large-scale crime afterwards, and if it is the case that the rapporteur does not support this as a way of getting rid of it, what will the rapporteur himself do?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145726	Some young people from certain countries find it difficult to adapt, who apparently do not want to adapt and who sign up to crime, and something needs to be done about that. That is why we have also made a whole series of tightenings, in which the Radical Left has also supported some of them. Among other things: After all, it is also really difficult to obtain citizenship on the basis of crime when you have been permanently resident. Even if you get a speeding ticket of over 3,000 kroner, you get a waiting period of several years. So I think we are already well upholstered when it comes to rules on how to deal with criminal young people and criminal foreign nationals. But precisely in this group we have a very, very large majority, who is doing nothing wrong and who just wants to get on with being an accomplished part of Denmark, and they will be punished with the proposal that Conservatives are making today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145813	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145814	That's factually wrong. This proposal suggests that, according to exactly the same rules that apply today, you get, for example. a 5-year residence permit. What's it like to punish someone with this proposal? Unless you commit crime, there is not a person who would have to leave the country. It is only those who commit crime who will then be affected by it because they cannot then be granted permanent residence permits afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145839	I simply do not think I understand the question, because in fact this proposal is to create a five-year temporary residence permit, is it not? There is a difference between a 5-year temporary residence permit and a permanent residence permit, and these are two very different things. So this is a huge deterioration in the system that we have now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145859	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427145910	Thank you. As a starting point in the Enhedslisten, we find it too difficult to obtain a residence permit in Denmark, especially for young people. After all, it is very much a question of education not counting when you apply for a permanent residence permit. That is what we in the Enhedslist think it should do, and I would actually say that would be a much better starting point for the debate on permanent residence permits if that was where we started. But now Conservatives have tabled this motion for a resolution, which is about replacing the fasttrack system for permanent residence permits for residents of 18-19 years with a new system. I just have to say there, like the radical rapporteur, that we cannot support this in the Enhedslisten. On the other hand, the discussion we really want to enter is on how to reduce crime in our society. In fact, I think that everyone in here is concerned about how we do this, and I would say that when I stand on this platform as rapporteur for foreigners, I am also burdened with being the legal rapporteur, and that is why the issue of crime and crime prevention is something I am discussing very much. And there I have to say that if you want to do away with the crime in society, what I think we all want to do, there are plenty of tools that we know work. Preventive efforts can be made both to focus on integration, to combat poverty and to strengthen education. There are a great many things we can do, as Mrs Halime Oguz from the SF also mentioned in her rapporteur's speech. In fact, I think that would be a more, what can one say, fair discussion, if we discussed how to stop crime on the basis that we would like to stop crime, rather than on the basis of how to get a residence permit in Denmark, because then I think we would actually be able to solve the crime problems that, after all, exist in Denmark if we discussed them as what they are, namely crime problems. The Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal, which comes from the Conservatives, because we believe that the strict rules we already have are a system which makes it impossible for people who have been born and raised here to ever become Danish citizens. At least this proposal will further reduce the possibility. I would also like to say, following on from that, that, in a sense, I can understand if Mr. Marcus Knuth and the Conservative People's Party are satisfied at the moment, for it is especially on the basis of rules that the Conservative People's Party has been forced through in the area of citizenship that it is virtually impossible for people born and raised in this country to become a Danish citizen. We are sorry about this in the Enhedslisten, but I know the debate and know that Mr. Marcus Knuth and the Conservative People's Party have a different attitude. But Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal because we believe it should be easier to obtain permanent residence permits and it should be easier to become a Danish citizen than it is today. And it will not be with this proposal, and that is why we do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150216	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150219	I did not really intend to comment further, but when the rapporteur is seriously saying that it should be even easier, I would say that I find it difficult to see how it can be easier than it is today. After all, there are no demands for employment, and you may have committed quite extensive crime • you may have received a large number of fines for drug trafficking etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150243-2	At least one thing is certain, sir. Marcus Knuth, and that's why it's getting harder with this proposal, and that's why Enhedslisten doesn't support it. It could be easier in the sense that you automatically acquired citizenship if it was the case that you were born and raised in this country. This is how we believe in Enhedslisten that it should be • that everyone who was born and raised in Denmark and has had what is popularly called its formative years here in Denmark automatically becomes Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150309	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150310	Actually, that's not what I was asking about. The rapporteur stood on the platform and said that it must be easier to get a permanent stay when you are young. How can you make it easier than it already is today? There are no demands. You just have to be here for a certain number of years, turn 18, have gone to school, and then you get a permanent stay. I find it hard to see how it can be easier. So I have a supplementary question for the rapporteur: does the rapporteur really not think that any demands should be made on young foreigners who are here? Because we can see that many of them commit crime afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150339	First of all, there are demands, sir. Marcus Knuth, when it comes to having been here for a certain number of years it is also a requirement. At least we think so in the Enhedslisten. Then you can discuss whether it is a small or a big demand, but that is a requirement. Secondly, yes, I think we should be much better at making demands on each other. I therefore think that a very important condition for the success of the integration process is that the individual wants to be integrated, but also that we as a society do not put all these stumbling threads on integration, as we have done, which has become particularly clear since we have now had to deviate from them in order to be able to treat the Ukrainian refugees properly. So integration goes both ways. I think we should make demands both ways.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150422	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so the next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150438	Thank you. I fully share the concern underlying the proposal to replace the so-called fasttrack scheme for 18-19-year-olds with fairer and tighter rules for permanent residence in Denmark. And by the way, I also think that we should turn around, that it is a little strange that a Danish expression has not been used. Fasttrack is obviously responsible for everything that has to go fast, and that sounds good. But hurry is also said, and this is certainly true of the present system, which should be called the short-term or loophole system more precisely. Because we can see how the generous support from Danish society has been reciprocated by the lucky young people who have obtained permanent residence. It has not been repaid with gratitude, let alone exemplary behavior. 5.529 young people have taken advantage of the fasttrack scheme. As the authors of the motion point out in their comments on the proposal, 99 per cent come from the Member States. those granted permanent residence from non-EU countries. Of them, 19% commit. crime after they have obtained permanent residence. At the top of the depressing statistics we find Palestinians, Iranians, Iraqis and Somalis. 12% This is particularly true of young people from Turkey, Iran and Afghanistan. I am curious to hear good arguments as to whether this is a healthy contribution to Danish culture or economy. We could also choose to call the fasttrack scheme the springboard scheme, because after a single year of permanent residence there is access to apply for Danish citizenship. But that is not the point of asylum in Denmark. Asylum is temporary; you have to go home as soon as possible. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150633	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150637	I would just like to thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for her support and regret that I used a word as a fasttrack. Of course, I should have said what I think Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard said, namely the short-term arrangement. It would actually have been a better choice of words. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150652	Yes, but in general I think we should endeavour to speak Danish in the Folketing and in many other places.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150701	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no more brief comments. Nor are there any more rapporteurs in the Chamber to speak, so we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150722	Thank you. While I remember it, I welcome from New Citizens and say that they support the proposal, as does the Danish People's Party. Then I would like to say that I have been a little sorry about the debate here, because I had actually expected more from many of the parties. Well, the numbers here show a perfectly clear picture when it is so that 19 per cent. of those who use this shortcut scheme, if you can call it that, then crime is committed afterwards. Then we have a very serious problem. And when it is the case that some groups of countries, Iran, Iraq and Somalia in particular, which I have mentioned here, stand out, then we have an even greater problem with them. We do not think there is anything unfair in what we have put forward. We've actually landed this very, very soft place, I'd say. I would imagine that there are some parties that say that if you have come here with your parents from, for example. Iraq or Somalia and, at the age of 18, if you do not have a need for protection yourself, you have to return to your home country. I could imagine some parties saying that. We have landed it here in a somewhat softer way, also in the hope that there would be wider support by saying that then you will get automatically, without demands, a 5-year residence permit, and if during that period you behave properly and do not hold the country to blame and do not commit crime, you can then get the permanent residence permit. We actually think that's a sensible way to solve this. Then the Radical Left says we're punishing the young. I do not think that being a young foreigner from Iraq or Somalia in Denmark and automatically obtaining a 5-year residence permit at the age of 18 is a punishment I cannot see. So yes, we are really sorry that there is no more support either from the Left, which I thought took unnecessary distance from this. However, I would like to thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for the support from the Danish People's Party for this abolition of the loophole scheme and also for the support of New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427150924	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427151344	The debate is open and the first is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427151405	Thank you for the floor and too little flexibility for the President, and thanks to the authors of the motion for a resolution for a resolution on an annual ceiling on the number of permanent residence permits granted. I think it is only fair that we should impose strict requirements on the granting of permanent residence permits. I think we do the same, and the demands have been tightened up, even several times. Permanent residence permits are not something you achieve just like that. Having said that, the government cannot support a proposal for a ceiling on the number of permits. The proposers refer to the fact that, as a result of the influx of refugees in 2015, there was a sharp increase in the number of Syrian citizens living permanently in 2021. Of the 4,200 persons who were granted permanent residence permits, 5 per cent were. from Syria. That is not many, but it is more than before, and I understand that there will probably be more from Syria in the future. But the Syrian citizens who are permanently resident will only get it because they meet the conditions; they are integrated, they have been here for a long time. As I mentioned during the March consultation on Syrian refugees who have been granted permanent residence, the rules were tightened in 2016 and in 2017. These are some changes supported by the Social Democratic Party. Of the permanent residence permits granted last year, 13 per cent were issued. given to refugees and 34 per cent. for workers and students. And it is my view that, with the current rules on permanent residence overall, we have found a sensible balance in relation to, on the one hand, a strict immigration policy and, on the other hand, the taking into account of those who have come here and who are actually participating in our society and contributing positively to our economy. I do not think it would be sensible to introduce a ceiling so that foreigners who already meet the strict requirements of permanent residence must meet with additional waiting time, and we cannot therefore support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427151613	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427151617	As the Minister himself has said, this proposal is motivated by the fact that, in the near future, a great many of the almost 40,000 Syrian refugees who came here during the refugee crisis can seek permanent residence, and even if there were to be peace in even more parts of Syria, we cannot send them back. We think this is a major problem and the Minister does not intend to do anything about it. This would certainly be one step in the direction of solving it. Now I am looking at our agreement on citizenship, where we write, and the Minister agrees that before the summer holidays, last summer holidays, the government will call for discussions on how we can ensure that temporaryness does not develop into de facto permanent residence and, of course, what is happening. We have had one of those discussions, but then there has been nothing more. So what will the Minister do to follow up these discussions? Will the Minister convene another meeting? And if it is the case that the Minister will not deal with this problem with what we are proposing here, what will the Minister do?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427151714	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427151715	You can always sit down or meet here to discuss the conditions for permanent residence, but I also think there is something more fundamental at stake here. Well, we tell people who come to Denmark that they get a temporary residence permit. After a while, the Folketing has agreed that you can obtain a permanent residence permit, and the basic condition for obtaining the permanent residence permit is that you are integrated. Then we can always discuss what it means to be integrated and how much work, how little crime, how much Danish etc. etc. Should we then set a ceiling? I think that would be a little strange and say that when we hit that ceiling, it is so that even if you live up to all the conditions, you cannot get the permanent residence permit? We must remember that the vast majority of people who come to our country are mostly coming here as employees, students or family members. It is a completely common part of being part of an open economy where Danes can travel and where foreigners can enter. After all, it is most people, and it is completely unproblematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427151818	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427151819	Let me clarify my question again, because I hear what the Minister is saying and we are not looking at it the same way. When we made the agreement on citizenship, the Minister undertook to convene a series of discussions before the summer holidays, and it was therefore last summer's vacation, on how to prevent temporary protection from developing into de facto permanent residence. What will the Minister do to follow up on that series of meetings? Because I do not recall that we have had a meeting on this for a very, very long time, and that is what the Minister undertook in that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427151850	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427151851	Well, that's right, and as the questioner also says, we met once. And we can sit and look into all the tables where we can see when the acids have been here for 8 years. What is just my starting point is that when you live up to the rules for permanent residence, you have to have a permanent stay, I think. I do not think there should be a ceiling where we say: unfortunately, we have now hit x number thousand this year, and then there are no more permanent residence permits in Denmark. In other words, we can regulate the influx to Denmark and we can regulate the conditions for who should have permanent residence, but I do not think it should start to say that there is a ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427151926	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and then we start with the rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Beazley. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427151939	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party proposes to introduce an annual ceiling on the number of permanent residence permits granted to non-EU citizens. In addition, it is proposed that persons applying for permanent residence should be given priority according to three criteria: Danish knowledge, crime and public support. I think I understand Conservatives' intention with the motion for a resolution, because of course we must have control over how many people originating in different parts of the Great Middle East settle in Denmark and obtain permanent residence and thus also gain easier access to Danish citizenship. Over the years, we have learned that it is immigration from that part of the world that is driving the challenge of integration. It has major consequences for Danish society and will be a challenge for many years to come. However, we believe that people who meet the conditions should be granted a permanent residence permit because the rules are now tight. Over the years, we in the Danish Parliament have secured a clear and consistent set of rules for permanent residence for foreigners, and if you are diligent and do your duty and comply with these rules, we think it is reasonable that you can obtain a permanent residence permit. Social democracy does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152051	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152053	The fact that the rapporteur has the same view as the Minister does not come as a great surprise. But now I asked the Minister, and I am sure the rapporteur also heard that, and the rapporteur is not the rapporteur in the area of citizenship. However, when we made the agreement on citizenship last spring, the Minister undertook to call for discussions on how to ensure that temporary protection, for example. For the large group of Syrians, it does not develop into permanent residence, and I have just asked the Minister twice when he intends to convene the next meeting on it. I think it is a little less than a year since we last talked about it, and I would like to know if the rapporteur has heard of any calls for the next meeting on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152134	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152135	No, I have not, but I do not know what exactly has been agreed, nor do I control the Minister's calendar. So I think that Mr. Marcus Knuth has to ask the minister instead of asking through me.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152150	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152151	Now I actually asked the Minister twice, but he was very cleverly avoiding keeping the issue so direct. So perhaps the rapporteur will be so kind as to have the rapporteur defile down by the Minister in a moment and ask the Minister and then perhaps send me a text. Then it may be that we can get answers to the question in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152209	I think the day has evolved into Mr. Mads Birded and I have become such a kind of communication system for Mr. Marcus Knuth to pass various messages when Mr. Marcus Knuth disagrees with the government on various matters. But in addition to that, I think that some of what is fundamental and interesting in this is that Mr. Marcus Knuth, with this proposal, defends a view where you have 500 people who have lived up to some pretty strict rules, but where no. 501, Americans, Germans, Chinese, Australians, Turks, and what do I know should not be subject to the same rules, even if they live up to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152243	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thanks to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Rasmussen, the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152253	Thank you for the floor. The Conservative People's Party proposes that we introduce an annual ceiling on the number of permanent residence permits granted. I shall be relatively brief and say that this proposal cannot be supported by the Left. We have tightened the rules for permanent stay in Denmark. One must have lived legally in Denmark for at least 8 years, one must not have committed serious crime, and one must have passed Danish examination 2. This seems to us to be a fair and strict requirement, and we therefore see no need for a ceiling on the number of residence permits granted. In fact, the expectation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that a ceiling will affect foreigners more with a residence permit on the basis of occupations and studies than foreigners with a residence permit as refugees. This means that the group which will be more affected by a ceiling, among other things. is made up of foreigners who are in Denmark to work and study and who contribute greatly to Danish society, and we should not hit them with a ceiling if they meet the strict requirements. With these words, I can say that the Left does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152401	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152403	No, this is one of the areas of foreign policy where, unfortunately, we do not see the same thing. So, the reality is that a great many people have come here from Syria, who will soon be able to have a permanent stay in relation to how long they have been in that country at least, and we think we should do something about that, and it is so unfortunate that the Left will not support this. However, the Left supports the agreement we have with the Minister that he should convene a series of meetings on how to ensure that temporary protection does not develop into permanent residence. So this is really just a friendly call to the rapporteur to go with him too. Morten Dahlin, that the minister owes us some meetings on this. It is almost a year since he has called a meeting last, and there he is hiding completely, despite the fact that we have a clear agreement in writing that this is something on which he must call for negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152449	I have to take the message on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152455	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Halime Oguz.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152502	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you for the floor. With this proposal, Conservatives want an arbitrary ceiling on when to get through the needle eye to a permanent residence permit. I think that we can discuss well integration requirements and what factors should trigger a permanent residence permit • what should you live up to? But this is not a question of either integration, flexibility, transfer income or anything else. This is a ceiling, so if two refugees have lived here for eight years and then lived up to the requirements for permanent residence permits, then the SF does not believe that a ceiling should be able to put an end to one simply because the other has come through its application more quickly, as the proposal proposes, because both applicants meet the requirements. In addition, the SF lacks any evidence of the extent of the comments: How many really get these residence permits after less time? And to what extent is this even a challenge? In those words, the SF does not support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152618	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152619	After all, this proposal is only one of many in terms of getting rid of that problem. The reality is that there is peace in larger and wider areas of Syria, but there came, I think, about 40 000 from Syria during the refugee crisis that will not go home. And they're about to get a permanent stay, and regardless of whether or not there's going to be peace throughout Syria, they can stay here for the rest of their lives. So if the rapporteur will not support this as one of several proposals to tackle this issue, what will the rapporteur do?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152650	Firstly, there is no peace in Syria, and secondly, you cannot obtain permanent residence permits unless you are fully integrated.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152700	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152702	Well, there were many things in what the rapporteur has just said, which I am deeply puzzled about. But does the rapporteur really believe that if you have been permanently resident, you will be fully integrated? So, I would remind you that you can have a permanent stay, even though you have been given an enormous amount of fines for drug crime and all sorts of other things up to a fairly high level of different prison sentences. Does the rapporteur really think that anyone who gets a permanent residence permit in Denmark should not even have passed Danish exam 3 is fully integrated?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152732	No, and a criminal cannot obtain a residence permit in Denmark. A criminal can't get a permanent residence permit. That is simply not true. And if he was to commit any crime after obtaining a permanent residence permit, then there are also some severe penalties associated with it and possibly expulsion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152757	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. So we move on to Radicale's rapporteur, Mrs Kathrine Oldag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427152822	Thank you so much. I think it is important to hold on to the fact that when you get a permanent stay in Denmark, you get it because you have passed a large number of tests and you can meet a large number of requirements, each of which is actually quite reasonable. One can support oneself, one has a job, one can speak the language, one has not committed crime, and that is why we in the Radical Left do not think that it is a problem when, for example, it is a problem. Syrians, as the proposers say, can have permanent residence after a number of years. Then it is because they have chosen Denmark for and they actually have a future here linguistically, work-wise, culturally etc., they bravely enter Danish society and want to be on the terms we have now put forward for that membership. That is why we actually believe that the rules for permanent residence, as they stand today, are reasonable. Then you can always have some ideas on how to make them better. We also have a lot of ideas about it. But the thing about putting a ceiling on is a rather rough proposal, which goes a long way against the basic logic that is that when you tap in, just because you want to be part of this society, you are allowed to be here. Who are we to go in and say that only a certain number should do so? It somehow acts as a counter-force to what we are actually trying to achieve, namely to integrate many foreigners. After all, one hand cannot stand and hammer and thunder over the fact that integration is functioning badly, and then, when they are fully integrated and stand to be able to have permanent residence, with the other hand would not have them in anyway. There is, after all, some totally contradictory logic in this which we in the Radical Left do not understand in any way whatsoever. So in those words, we do not support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153011	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153013	Thank you to the rapporteur. I did not expect that from the Radical Left either. But if I may go right to the heart of the whole problem here. After all, the idea of the asylum system and temporary protection is that when you come here as a refugee and have temporary protection, you have to return home when there is peace. Our own authorities consider, for example, that in many parts of Syria there is peace today, at least enough peace for some to go home. As peace will hopefully come throughout Syria in the future, what does the rapporteur think about the many people who have come here from Syria? should they just stay in Denmark, or should they go home again? In short: temporary protection is temporary
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153100	There are many ways to go in that answer and I will throw myself on one of them, because I don't have much time, and this is the right to take root when you've been in a country for some time. That is what we say, namely that after 8 years you have the opportunity to apply for a permanent stay because you have the right to move forward; to find out who you really are; what you want with your life; and what kind of life course you choose. And we really think that is quite reasonable. There we can say that we had actually thought and understood the way with the acids that many of them would go home quite quickly. But now that they stay and the war in Syria is dragging on and there is no certainty in Syria, even in our eyes, they must also have the right to take root. That is a very fundamental right for us to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153143	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153144	I know that this discussion is a little more theoretical now, but the rapporteur comes from a party which is precisely in favour of the fundamental international agreements we have made and so on. And the whole refugee system is based precisely on the fact that it is temporary; in other words, that you are living in a country as a refugee until there is peace in the country of origin. Is that also the rapporteur's view? Or does the rapporteur really think that the asylum system is just a new way to travel around the world and then settle somewhere and stay there for the rest of your life?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153213	In principle, we also stick to the temporary nature, but the rapporteur also knows just as well as I do that when time has passed, this is turning into a grey area. Then we start to see that this is actually about people and about pushing down a lot of principles on people who are moving on in their lives and taking root in their new country; they must also have a chance to move on here and establish themselves as Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153240	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153255	The Danish People's Party basically believes that refugees should only be granted temporary residence permits in Denmark and should not, as a starting point, be allowed to obtain permanent residence permits until the day they qualify for Danish citizenship, for example. if they are married to a Danish citizen. The Conservative People's Party's proposal does not go far enough in our view, but it is a step in the right direction and perhaps we should add: better late than never. Because the problem of granting permanent residence permits to foreigners is not new. Thousands of tens of thousands of foreigners who have come to Denmark as refugees have already obtained permanent residence permits, making it much more difficult to remove their residence permit in Denmark and to send them back to the countries where they came from. And that is exactly what Denmark needs: an immigration policy in which people from the Middle East, Iran, North and East Africa, Pakistan and Afghanistan are encouraged to go home. The proposal from the Conservatives is based on the fact that in the coming years thousands of Syrians will be granted permanent residence permits and will no longer be able to return to Syria unless they, for example, are able to return to Syria. commit crimes which may result in expulsion. In the view of the Danish People's Party, it is time to start repatriating Syrians. This presupposes that the Danish Government is willing to make contact with the Syrian regime and negotiate the conditions for the repatriation of Syrians. There is peace in the majority of Syria today. The Syrians can return home, but if this cannot be done on a voluntary basis, then Denmark needs an agreement with Syria. The EU has told Denmark that we must not enter into negotiations with Bashar al-Assad on the repatriation of Syrians. So we in the Danish People's Party think you should give no thought to that. What is crucial for the Danish People's Party is that the Syrians come home, rather today than tomorrow. As I said, the Danish People's Party is opposed to obtaining permanent residence permits in Denmark as a refugee. That is why we are also opposed to the part of the Conservatives' proposal that we should base ourselves on the average of permanent residence permits granted to non-EU citizens over recent years as a guide for how many people can obtain permanent residence permits. In fact, far too many have already been granted permanent residence permits, so I do not think we should start from that. In view of the priority given to who can obtain permanent residence permits in the event that a permanent residence permit should be granted to some, we also believe that it is relatively simple. It should be a requirement for a permanent residence permit for everyone that you are not convicted of crime or are on public support. Can the Danish People's Party then support the proposal if it comes to a vote in this Chamber? We will be able to do so, as it is a step in the right direction, but it is also only a tiny step in the right direction, in relation to what is actually needed, namely to stop refugees from third-world countries from obtaining permanent residence permits at all and to help refugees from their neighbouring regions and not in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153621	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153637	Thank you, President. And thank you all for a good discussion here. I am, of course, sorry that there is no support for the proposal, but I did not expect that either. Because when we had a similar proposal for a cap on the granting of citizenship, I actually thought we were going a little in that direction during the negotiations, but it ended up with the Left and the Social Democrats not backing up. The Danish People's Party and New Citizens of course did, so thank you for that. But the reality is that this is the result of a debate on temporary nature, to which I also asked several of the rapporteurs. Because when you come to Denmark and get protection temporarily, it should not develop into permanent residence. It is the case that you have to go back to your homeland when there is peace and when possible. And there we are saddened that there is no greater support for putting it into practice. The rapporteur from the Radical Left himself said that they share the basic point of view. This is also something that is enshrined in the Refugee Convention, which is precisely based on the fact that refugees are a temporary concept and not a permanent concept. But in any case, thank you to the Danish People's Party for backing this up. And I would just like to make a comment on Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard: we fully agree that this is not the solution to all problems, in that temporaryness should not develop into permanent residence. This is one of many resolutions which at least points in that direction. Just to remind you. Finally, I would like to say to the Minister: I would remind him politely that we have an agreement, that is, the new citizenship agreement, which states that the Minister will call for discussions on what we can do, especially for this group of Syrians, so that temporaryness does not develop into permanent residence. And I would just like to remind you that we only had one meeting before last summer, which is almost a year ago, so I sincerely hope that the Minister will convene the next meeting. Because we certainly think that should have happened a long time ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153840	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153853	The debate is open and the first to speak is Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427153916	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for tabling motion for a resolution B 165. With the proposal, the Conservatives propose that foreigners seeking Danish citizenship should have been permanently resident in Denmark for at least 5 years instead of the current requirement for 2 years of permanent residence. The agreement on new rules for the granting of citizenship tightened the residence requirement so that, in addition to the condition already in force for nine years of continuous residence in this country, a requirement was also introduced for ordinary applicants for Danish citizenship to have been permanently resident for two years, while for refugees and persons treated as refugees and stateless persons, a requirement was introduced for one year of permanent residence. The requirements for the length of the stay period are inter alia: The Convention lays down that the national Convention contains an obligation to require no more than 10 years of permanent residence as a condition for the acquisition of nationality. A further tightening of the requirements for the length and period of residence of the stay could therefore be contrary to our international obligations, and it is the Government's view that Denmark must comply with the Convention on the Rights of Nationals. I therefore believe that the agreement also found an appropriate level with the introduction of a requirement for permanent residence for two years prior to the application for Danish citizenship, and we cannot therefore support the Conservatives' proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154047	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154049	Now there has been a little discussion about conventions and this proposal and just to make one thing clear: I spoke to Eva Ersbøll and also got her very kind to answer in writing on some questions I had. Of course, the fact that we are putting forward a proposal calling for negotiations is not against any convention at all. It cannot be called for a debate. But we see that there can be many solutions for this. A direct time requirement that you should have been in Denmark for 5 years, we are in agreement with may well be problematic, but you can do it indirectly, for example. by removing the possibility of exemption from the employment requirement. That would mean that many of the young people who we think are a problem because they commit crime afterwards would have had a job and thus perhaps only acquired Danish citizenship when, for example, they were not able to do so. was 22 or 23 years old. We would be able to live with that and it would be within the conventions, as I understand it at least. Is this a solution in which the Minister can then see himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154147	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154148	We believe that the agreement we have reached is a good one, and we see no basis for having to call for negotiations in order to create new rules for the granting of citizenship so soon after we have just changed them once. In fact, I believe that it is a problem in itself that the main rules of alien law have been changed so unimaginably many times over a few decades that it is now difficult to find a way around it, and it is therefore also an objective in itself to try to have some degree of tranquillity about the main rules in the field of aliens, including the rules of citizenship. Then I just don't think it's fair to say to people that it takes 8 years to get permanent residence plus processing time and then to wait 5 years afterwards in order to get citizenship. Lots of people who today acquire Danish citizenship after having been permanently resident for 2 years are people I am happy to be able to give citizenship. They are well integrated in Denmark and they work well in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154243	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154244	But the Minister also knows very well that the reason why so many young people acquire citizenship so quickly is that there is both a loophole in relation to permanent residence for young people, and then there is also a loophole in relation to citizenship for young people, where there is also no need to have a job or to meet very many demands at all. And there it is, we see that 21%. Pakistanis, 20%. Iranians, 18%. Afghans commit extensive crime after they have acquired Danish citizenship. There is what we say quietly: Well, if we wait to give the young Danish citizenship until they have been a little longer and have met some more demands, then it may be that they do not commit crime. What will the Minister do about those who commit crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154324-2	I would like to start by saying that a demand for at least five years of permanent residence before you can apply for citizenship would of course affect everyone, in other words a great many people, thousands of people who apply for Danish citizenship every year. And what foreign policy is all about is finding the balance between, on the one hand, having a strict foreign policy and, on the other hand, having rules and conditions that make the thousands of people who come to the country every year also believe that there is reasonableness in what conditions they are met by Danish society. And that balance is essential to find, and I actually believe that we have found it on many stretches. If we did what is now before us, I think we would lose our balance. And many people would also experience ▪ other than breaking the conventions that there would be a quite unreasonable waiting time for citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154414	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Then it is the rapporteurs and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154431	With this motion for a resolution, the Conservative People's Party proposes to call for negotiations to change the rules in the area of citizenship so that foreigners applying for Danish citizenship must have been permanently resident in Denmark for at least five years. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that the Danish Parliament must place high expectations and strict demands on foreigners who apply for Danish citizenship. It is and will be a great privilege to become a Danish citizen, and once you have acquired Danish citizenship, it is difficult to get it taken away from you again, even if you commit serious crime. In addition, it is a great declaration of confidence from Danish society when foreigners acquire Danish citizenship and really become part of the community here in Denmark. It is therefore important that we ensure as far as possible that foreigners who acquire Danish citizenship have become sufficiently Danish in their hearts and minds. In addition, it is important that they have worked diligently and purposefully to learn Danish and be self-supporting and acquire Danish values and become part of Denmark with all that it entails. The current requirement for the length of the period of residence and the requirement of permanent residence are laid down so that it is in accordance with the Convention on National Rights and it contains an obligation that we maximum. may lay down a requirement for 10 years of permanent residence as a condition for obtaining Danish citizenship. Against this background, therefore, the Social Democratic Party cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154545	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154547	However, I would remind you that the Minister has actually listened to some of the other issues we have pointed out which are still in the area of citizenship. Yeah, we made a good deal, but it's not perfect. There's no deal that's perfect. And as I understand it, the Minister will convene some discussions on, among other things. this with a fee where you pay the first time, but not later etc. I think the Minister has also been open to adjusting some other small things, at least as I understand it, and these are some very, very strong figures. 45% of young stateless persons, i.e. often Palestinians, commit crime after they have acquired citizenship, 21%. by Pakistanis. I cannot understand why the Social Democrats are simply saying that we are not going to do anything about it. What will the Social Democrats do about this? Or should you just implicitly accept it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154635-2	I also hope that the rapporteur himself thinks that when an agreement is reached, it is a good agreement, and there are rules that apply in a similar way, so that you can look for a few years in the future. Having said that, if we are talking about serious crime, then yes, it is some figures that are far too high. However, I also hope that the rapporteur will agree that we have also taken the initiative to actually take citizenship from people such as myself. is a danger to vital interests for Denmark, and here I think we have had excellent cooperation with the bourgeois parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154705	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154706	I agree that this is a good deal. But when I think back here in Parliament how many times we haven't dealt with a change in a law of a change in the law of a change in the law we change the laws all the time in order to improve them. And since these figures are violent, as they are, and I did not even realize that they have figures so strong when we concluded the agreement, I would actually say that, and I think the rapporteur agrees that this is an extremely complex area, this, and I am constantly learning new things. When you learn something new, there is a problem, why not try to solve it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154735	We would very much like to resolve this, but I also think that the rapporteur must admit that it is not long since we have made an agreement that I understood on both the Left, the Conservatives and the Liberal Alliance was a good agreement. One should also be able to count on, when seeking Danish citizenship, that there are some rules that apply. But we can solve some of it, and I can see that Mr. Marcus Knuth sends a rapporteur around with messages to the Minister, so if there is anything, I should like to say it further.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154757	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427154809	Thank you for the floor and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. With this resolution, we will have the opportunity to discuss what demands should be made on people seeking Danish citizenship. This is all fine, even though we have just been through a process in which we debated it and negotiated it and made some very significant changes in this area. Let me start by stating that in the Left we do not think citizenship is a right. It is important that we set strict and cash requirements for those who want to become part of the Danish community. As you know, the rules for obtaining Danish citizenship were changed last year, and I myself took part in these negotiations, and we agreed that a new agreement would have to be made for the acquisition of citizenship. This agreement also included the element that we are discussing here today, namely how long a permanent stay one must have in Denmark before one can apply for Danish citizenship. Here we agreed that ordinary applicants must have had permanent residence in Denmark for 2 years. Because of the provisions of the Convention, there are individual groups which can settle for one year's permanent stay, but the general rule is therefore two years. In order to obtain a permanent stay in Denmark, you must have been in the country for at least 8 years, so the starting point is that you must have been in Denmark for 10 years before you can qualify for Danish citizenship. Then comes a motion for a resolution which we are discussing here, where the Conservative People's Party proposes that all persons should have had five years of permanent residence permit before they can be considered for Danish citizenship. This will mean that the general rule will be that one must have been in Denmark for 13 years before one can qualify for Danish citizenship. On the one hand, we in the Left are not sure that this is the right balance, but we are also fully aware that it is also a proposal that is clearly contrary to Denmark's international obligations, as the citizenship convention calculates the residence requirements that a nation can set up to ten years. We were also informed of this, moreover, when we were doing the tightenings mentioned earlier by the Socialist rapporteur, and when we discussed it earlier today when Mr. Rasmus Stoklund was here, we were through all this material. I think it is a little strange that a party that courtesys to sit at the absolute adult table in Danish politics comes up with a proposal which so clearly runs directly over one of the conventions that we in the Left believe Denmark should comply with. I think we should go a completely different way if we do not like the agreement we made at the time. Then we should sit down and look at the problems that I understand from the Conservative rapporteur are frustrating for them, and I am in fact partly in agreement with them, with the fact that too many people have too active a criminal career, but still have citizenship in Denmark, and that can be quite serious. Then we will have to see if we can tighten up the rules on citizenship under that heading on top of the agreement we reached last year. We in the Left will not deny that further action can be taken, and we would like to discuss it with both the Conservative People's Party and with the government, but we must do so in a way that we do not rush into a convention at full speed, because we simply do not think that is the right way to do it. That is why I would like to call on the government to call for a follow-up to last year's agreement as soon as possible. We have waited a long time for this, not only in the Conservative People's Party, but also in the Left, both to consider whether we hit all the balances we sought to strike correctly, but also to follow up on the elements we reached agreement last year, and to discuss some of the things that, after all, are contained in this proposal, namely a desire to address a problem. All we have to do is choose a path that respects the conventions we have concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155255	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155257	First of all, I would like to point out that the motion for a resolution itself cannot therefore be contrary to the Convention. A motion for a resolution in itself may be, but even Eva Ersbøll, although I do not always agree with her, says that the call for negotiations is of course not a problem in relation to the Convention on Civil Liberties, and that is what we are proposing. We're gonna start a negotiation. Then it can be argued that some proposals would be unconstitutional, but there are also some who would not be, and that certainly applies to those in which we could see ourselves. It could, for example, be done. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this subject, and I would like to thank him for his excellent report. So this can be resolved within the conventions, at least if we are to be satisfied. However, I would like to thank the Left for the support that we need to have a round to go through this, because there are many small disparities that remain, and I hope that the Minister will listen to this so that we can have a round-up on the citizenship agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155403	In other words, B 165 calls for a permanent stay in Denmark of 5 years. Of course, if you call a meeting to do so, it is not unconstitutional, but if you do what you are asked to do, you break the convention, and we do not think that is wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155426	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155427	Now I've just had a very long discussion with a Berlinian journalist about exactly this. And it says verbatim: we require the government to call for negotiations. That's what it says. So it is not unconstitutional, just to make it clear. But we shall hopefully have a discussion and a kind of debate with the Minister in the near future. In any case, he has proposed this, and hopefully we will have the opportunity to discuss everything between heaven and earth, if only under the heading where appropriate. So I think we're agreed on that part at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155458	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155459	I think that we should table resolutions which make sure that what we are proposing does not run into one of the conventions that Denmark must comply with. It is very important when we conduct policy in this area that we know, as we do, the limits on the field in which we conduct policy. I would therefore very much like to talk to the Minister about everything we agreed last year. I do not think it makes sense to start negotiations on something that we know is contrary to a convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155532	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments. Then it is SF's rapporteur, Mrs Halime Oguz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155544	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that today we have seen a number of proposals in the field of foreigners, which the SF has strongly opposed. I might be a little more inclined to understand the point of this proposal than with the previous ones, because there is a logic that something as precious as a citizenship is not something one should be able to acquire immediately. However, when I am sceptical, this is due to the context in which the proposal comes. We have historically strict requirements for citizenship, and many of them have been supported by the SF precisely because citizenship is something special. You will become a full member of Denmark with all the many, many rights it entails. But do we really need to fail yet another demand on top of a system that we have just started discussions to simplify? On top of that, I hear that it may be or is contrary to the conventions. In the SF we believe that the refugees who have contributed to Danish society and lived up to our demands for eight years, and a further couple of years, have earned Danish citizenship for the simple reason that they meet all the requirements that a permanent residence permit and a possible subsequent citizenship require of them. As mentioned earlier, these are not small demands that we require the individual to meet: zero debt, passed Danish test 2, no crime, no reception of public services and much, much more. Nor can I see that the comments made in the proposal make sufficient arguments in favour of the request. A number of strict requirements must be met in advance in order to become a citizen. How does the proposal here help to prevent more crime in practice? In fact, it is also very unclear. I think we can discuss this proposal as a substitute for other demands, perhaps as part of a streamlining and simplification of the area in general, but when the needle eye for citizenship is already as narrow as it is, I simply do not think it makes sense. Then I should welcome the Enhedslisten and say that they do not support the proposal, which the SF does not either. I do not know whether I was able to say clearly enough, i.e. that the SF does not support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155803	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155805	Well, I did not expect the rapporteur to support this either, but we are satisfied if the fundamental issue is resolved. And it is that very, very many young people, especially from Lebanon, Pakistan, Iran, Afghanistan, etc., commit large-scale crime shortly after they have acquired Danish citizenship, because there are these not fast-track schemes, but loopholes, or whatever to call it, for both permanent stay and citizenship, so that in a very short space of time you can get permanent residence and then citizenship, without having to make much demands. And then you can commit crime without being expelled. What will the rapporteur do to close those loopholes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155851	What I want to say is that I admit that everything, too many citizenships, has been given to people who have not earned it. I'll give you that. And I'm against it, too. But as the rules are right now, it is almost impossible to obtain citizenship. If you stole a lollipop in a supermarket at some point and then lived up to all the demands that are now, it's still really, really hard. So I don't see how we should tighten this up any further without harming all sorts of citizens who want this society that upholds exactly the rights and freedoms that we uphold. It's people who want this society to contribute to this society. And then there's a handful of criminals that I don't think should have citizenship either. It is not because I support it, but I do not see how else we should tighten further in this area. I simply cannot see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155955	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427155956	Well, I am glad that the rapporteur says that criminals should not have citizenship and that too many criminals have got it. But it is not true that it is an obstacle if you steal a lollipop, or if you commit extensive shoplifting, because there is actually a threshold of DKK 3,000. in fine for example. shoplifting. And we have given citizenship only a few months ago to a person who had been fined five large consecutively for large-scale theft. And there was no consequence. So does the rapporteur really not think that the rules can be tightened up?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160029	No, I do not think they can be tightened up further. I do not think so. I think it is important that the rules also reflect the values that we have in society, as well as the need to safeguard democracy, freedoms and gender equality. And if it's something like that, I think we can take a look at it. Perhaps we should try to see how we can turn these areas into something a little more fundamental to getting citizenship. But I don't really see how else to tighten these rules. I can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160105	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Susan Kronborg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160116	Thank you very much, President. Conservatives want to end their agreement with the government so that the period of permanent residence before you can apply for citizenship is increased from today 1-2 years to 5 years. The Radical Left does not support the resolution, as it is counterproductive in terms of the inclusion of particularly women and Muslims, and it is counterproductive in terms of attracting international labour. Conservatives justify their proposal with a view to considering that, in the 18-23 age group, people from non-EU countries are mostly given citizenship and that Conservatives believe that the group of young 18-23 year-olds can be motivated not to commit crime. There you can ask rhetorically whether it makes sense that people should wait five years instead of two years for citizenship. No, the Radical Left does not think so. On the contrary, research shows that citizenship actually means education and jobs, and that means that Danish citizenship promotes integration. It is both logical and intuitively true that citizenship promotes the possibility that you do not feel alien in Denmark, and there is also research into it. The study compared two groups of non-western immigrants in the period 1995-2020. One group of immigrants was granted citizenship from 1995 to 1999, while the other group remains not Danish nationals. So for that group back in the 1990s it turns out that getting a citizenship means more often taking an education and getting a job. The most beneficial effect is felt by women and Muslims. So it also means that the Radical Left, in addition to this counterproductive effect, is destroying the scientifically proven integration sequence of citizenship, nor does it support the resolution, because it is also counterproductive in attracting international labour. Our citizenship rules are not least a competitive parameter for attracting international labour, and we also see this in the SWID consultation answer, which is Skilled Worker Immigrants in Denmark. It is an association of highly trained foreign workers and they say that the proposal can greatly undermine the motivation of many highly educated foreigners, who are already an important part of the Danish workforce. That group will give greater consideration to emigrants, and that is because they can actually very easily get a similar glimpse job in another country. So that means, of course, that in the fight for international labour in Denmark we are going to worsen our own situation. Because the fact that we have some increasingly problematic rules for citizenship means, when it is a competitive parameter, that it exacerbates our Denmark's ability to attract the highly educated, whom we so much need and which our international groups are hoping for. It is also worth noting that the highly educated who come to Denmark also have their children with them, and that as a foreign highly trained labour force you also have a consideration about what you want, and also the opportunities for your children, and how their ability to obtain permanent residence permits is and what their opportunities are for obtaining citizenship. Because when you get older, you want to live in the same country as your children. At any rate, I think that is a very fine illustration of how we are going to lose out in the competition that there is, and I can mention, for example, that in Germany we can have citizenship after five years. So, in any case, in relation to them, I fear that we are going to lose a great deal of these very highly educated people, whom all our big companies really want to have both for Denmark, but which they also want to keep. So radicals do not support the resolution because it is counterproductive in terms of the inclusion of particularly women and Muslims and counterproductive in terms of attracting international labour. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160624	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160626	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I have also been presented from that report a few times. The rapporteur continues to say women and Muslims. Where's that in the report? And why does the rapporteur divide people up according to religion? It's not something I can see in the report. So, that means that women are not religious, but the rapporteur knows that the other group is? In fact, I think it is a pity when you are put in the booth that it is religion that is said first. This is true, whether it is people with a Muslim background who think it is the most important thing or when the rapporteur has to mention it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160702	Thank you very much. The reason why I mention that division is so that the report believes that the significance, the impact of citizenship, is most striking in women and Muslims. So that division has been made. It's not a division that I've been responsible for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160731	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160731-2	I think it is the same report we have read and I do not see that it is divided by religion. That means that the women who have a positive effect of this do not have Muslim background, but do the men? So that means that it is now primarily positive for male people with Muslim background, but not for men who do not have Muslim background? Is that correct? 'Cause I haven't read it like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160754	I have read the report in such a way that it divides into different groups and that what citizenship gives the highest effect statistically is for women, and since it has divided the group into women, women can have all kinds of religion. Then there is another box called Muslims, and they can then be both men and women.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160823	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160825	Thank you. It was a very theoretical discussion about religion. I want to focus on something a little different, which is the basics here. And it may well be that the rapporteur does not support the proposal as it stands here, but the reason for the proposal is precisely that, when we allocate citizenship to people of a young age, it is mainly from countries such as Pakistan or stateless persons. It's quite violent, i.e. 45%. is stateless in this statistic, 45%. commit crime after they have acquired Danish citizenship. Wouldn't there be some sense in not assigning it or making higher demands or something? Does the rapporteur think that is okay? Are they just gonna have citizenship and then commit crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427160903-2	This statistical issue is very difficult, and I have also read with interest the Minister's answer, and for the immediate consideration it seems very difficult to assess quite what is the effect, what is the effect, and also such a background to the answer is not quite obvious with the conclusion you might make. Because I think we can agree that obtaining citizenship at least does not involve crime, and that again is the statistical issue. I mean, how is that supposed to be read? The Minister's reply could also be read in such a way that it is typically young people who are criminals in relation to another group. For example, comparing young people with pensioners will show that young people are more criminal than pensioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427161007	Marcus Knuth? No. I do not see that there are any more brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427161025	Thank you. Today we are discussing the B 165 motion for a parliamentary resolution on the introduction of permanent residence requirements in Denmark for at least 5 years before you can apply for Danish citizenship. The proposal specifically seeks to tighten up the circular on naturalisation, so that the period of permanent residence before applying for citizenship is increased from the present 1-2 years to 5 years. First of all, of course, I would like to commend the proposers for wanting to tighten up the rules for granting citizenship. In the Danish People's Party, we agree that the rules for granting citizenship are too weak. The reason for the proposal is that a worryingly large proportion of young people aged 18-23 from non-western countries who acquire Danish citizenship, subsequently, when they have acquired Danish citizenship, commit crime. According to the proposers, figures from the period 2010-2014 show that 15%. of all persons aged 18 to 23 who have acquired citizenship are subsequently convicted of crime whose offences against the law on road transport are excluded. Mostly represented among the young people who commit crime are Palestinians with a rate of 45%, Pakistanis with 21%, Iranians with 20%, Afghans with 18%, Iraqis with 17%. and Somalis with 16%. The figures from the period 2015-2020 show, according to the proposers, a similar picture, with the exception of the Afghans. This means that there is a considerable overweight of people from a number of non-western countries. With the proposal, the proposers hope that strengthening the rules will motivate more young foreigners not to commit crime or, alternatively, to hit those who are still convicted of crime, so that they are covered by the criminal code, and the Danish People's Party supports this intention. Basically, the Danish People's Party is of the opinion that citizenship should only be granted to people who prove worthy of the gift of citizenship and who are already considered part of the Danish community. The DF therefore believes, in line with the proposal's intention, that it should be harder to acquire Danish citizenship and, in this context, we can support the proposal, which is a step in the right direction, but certainly does not solve the problem of too many citizenships being granted. But I hope that the government will nevertheless be responsive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427161306	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no brief comments, and that means that we have now come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427161318	Thank you, sir. President. Now we have had this discussion on conventions, and just to make it clear, I would say that the motion for a resolution here in itself cannot be in conflict with the conventions, since it is merely an invitation to call for negotiations. Even the good Eva Ersbøll, with whom I have talked a great deal about this proposal, acknowledges that the resolution itself cannot therefore be in conflict with the conventions. That has not been our intention in any way. But the reality is that there are a lot of solutions that we could at least see ourselves in that would solve this problem. It could, for example, be done. I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work has not yet been adopted by the Council. must have had a job first. I think that could be a long way from solving the problem, because it is the problem here that we must tackle. As Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has just said, and as the notes here state, it is 15%. of all young people who, under these short-term arrangements, have acquired citizenship bypassing all sorts of demands we normally make that subsequently commit crime. And when you look at the group that is most strongly represented, it is stateless, that is. young people, often from Palestine or Lebanon, where the proportion is 45%. That means that almost half of them commit crime after they have acquired citizenship because they get it at a young age through these short-term arrangements. And that is specifically true of the case, and we have debated this today: this fixed track system for permanent stay, where you just get it at 18 years old, without any demands being made, and then again to citizenship, where there is also a shortcut away from the requirement of employment. So if you removed the two, then I think we'd be very satisfied with this particular problem. There is no support for this, but I hope that the parties that have been involved in today's debate will at least look at the issue and take it seriously. Then I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for supporting this proposal. I agree with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard that this does not solve all the problems, but that it is a step in the right direction. And thank you to the new citizens, whom I welcome and who say they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427161532	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220427161545	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 28 April 2022, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
