ParlaMint-DK_20220125125959	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Thomase Danielse (V), Peter Skaarup (DF), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Sikandar Siddique (FG), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Jens Roh (KD), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA) and Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG): Motion for a resolution no. B 72 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the recognition of co-faith in rainbow families (citizen proposal)). Eva Flyvholm (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (SF), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Uffe Elbæk (FG): Request no. F 28 (What can the government say about the possibility of stopping Nord Stream 2 and providing alternative sources of supply to promote the green transition and our security policy, and what does the government intend to do for this in view of the tense situation with Russia and the need to ensure independence from fossil energy sources?). The titles of the cases notified will appear at www. Parliamentstidende.dk. above). On 21 January 2022, the Epidemic Committee presented: Report on removing the requirement for muzzles. 8. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20220125130112	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Left in North Jutland's Storkreds, Maja Torp, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing as from 1 February 2022 when Karsten Lauritzen resigns his mandate per year. 31 January 2022. Does anyone wish to speak on this matter? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125130142	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 94 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, NB, LA and FG) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 94 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125130212	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 29 of Camilla Fabricius (S), Jan Bjergskov Larsen (SF), Christina Thorholm (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL) and Jens Rohde (KD), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 53 (S, SF, RV, EL and FG), against voting 41 (V, DF, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 29 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 28 by Liselott Blixt (DF), Martin Geertsen (V) and Per Larsen (KF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125130336	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125130354	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 70 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 26 (SF, RV, EL and FG), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125130418	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125130435	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 70 (S, V, DF, KF, NB and LA), against 14 (RV, EL and FG), abstained 12 (SF and 3 EL (by mistake)). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125130503	Does anyone wish to speak? I can see that, sir. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten wants to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125130541	I have promised to explain our position on the overall draft law. I think I have come to a post office too early to vote on the amendments first, but I don't care about that, too, the President says. We're gonna do it like that. I would just like to briefly explain why we will end up voting in favour of the overall legislative proposal, L 62 A, despite the fact that we actually believe that it is an imperfect implementation of the road package in Danish legislation. What is imperfect is that what we call third country driving, bilateral international transport, with this bill does not include the remuneration requirement, and that, of course, we think is a huge, huge defect. Let me remind you that the Filipino drivers, whom it was revealed at the time lived under horrible accommodation conditions in Padborg, actually drove third-country journeys. It was a Danish company, Kurt Beier Transport, which on a Polish permit had Filipino drivers to drive international transport. This means that companies from anywhere in Europe can use Filipino, Thai or whatever drivers it should be to drive international transport, for example. between Sweden and Denmark and Germany or anywhere in Europe. That is what it was if they were then paid under Danish agreements, as they do and this is what this proposal provides for in cabotage and what is otherwise called combined transport. But it was third country driving, which these Filipinos were responsible for, and which tens of thousands of drivers throughout Europe are driving. They're not covered by this, and we think it's an imperfect implementation of the road package, and we think that's really, really a shame. However, when we choose to vote in favour of the entire legislative proposal, it is of course because cabotage and combined transport are covered by the legislative proposal, but it is also, of course, because we have had the Minister expressing an opinion in the report, where he clearly says that we need a legal investigation into this and that it will take place here in the spring. Then we must have a political debate which includes the social partners, because we want the social partners to be responsible for extending this to third countries as well. We think this would be completely superfluous, but it is as far as we could get into this situation and therefore we are voting in favour of the proposal. We believe that the Danish Employers' Association has been given far too strong a veto here. They can sit back in the chair, hold their arms crossed and say to 3F, who will be the other side: Fuck you! Of course, we hope that will not happen. We hope that they are responsible over at the Danish Employers' Association, but that is what is possible. However, we shall end up with a vote in favour of the legislative proposal as a whole because of the announcement made by the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125130856	Thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested. There are no brief comments, and at least I now consider the debate on the amendments to be closed. We can therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125130903	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and No 2 by Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left, Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, the Conservative People's Party, and Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125130917	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. I do not see that anyone else wants to speak. We can therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125130924	The final adoption of the draft law is now being voted on and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 95 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and FG), against 1 (NB), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125130952	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131009	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour 18 (SF, EL and FG), against 78 (S, V, DF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. Then there are no more votes. Members who are not going to take part in the negotiations here on the first reading of Bill No. L 104, has the freedom to leave the Chamber so that there can be peace of mind for the first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131152	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131208	After all, the legislative proposal that we are now considering is about the implementation of the EU Leave Directive of June 2019 and about the implementation of the subsequent political agreement that a majority of Parliament's parties signed in October last year. One might say that we are a little critical when the EU interferes in matters which in Danish contexts are a matter for the social partners. Having said that, however, I would also like to say that I am satisfied with the result we have ended up with, namely a better distribution of leave, which strengthens equality both in the home and in the labour market. I am also pleased that the parties have taken part in the responsibility for implementing the EU directive with a common understanding paper on which the political negotiations have been based. I think this is an expression of the fact that the Danish model still has room for manoeuvre despite the EU's involvement in industrial relations. Now we have come to the part about implementing the directive on the basis of the political agreement on the implementation of legislation. The draft law proposes that the Leaves Directive be implemented in a 24-24 model where each parent is entitled to 24 weeks' leave with the right to daily allowance, of which 9 of the weeks are earmarked for the father or the co-mother. In addition, the father or the co-mother continues to be entitled to two weeks' leave following the birth. The parties to the agreement agree in this respect that the self-employed and the unemployed are not covered by the right to earmark. In addition, it is also part of the political agreement to provide better opportunities for greater flexibility for lgbt+ families, where social parents are given the opportunity to take part in the leave with their child, by allowing the child's parents to transfer part of the leave to the child's social parents. In addition, we also give solo parents the opportunity to share their leave with a close family member. The new leave model is designed to adapt it to the modern way of being a family today. It is important that legislation and employee rights follow developments in society, even when it comes to family life. Women are no longer considered the only and primary caregiver in the family. Parents are not just same - sex couples, and in some families there are not necessarily two parents. I am pleased that we are now taking a major step in the area of equality. This will benefit families, businesses and equality in society. At the same time, I know that there are some families that still have a great need to be able to organise leave flexibly, as well as some will criticise the new leave model in order to challenge the ability of families to plan the bar between two parents. Therefore, the new leave model is also based on maintaining maximum flexibility for families. But we must also face up to the fact that developments in the area of equality are extremely slow. Studies indicate that about one in three father would have liked to have taken more leave than he did. In 2019, on average, new fathers took 34 days' leave, while mothers took 280 days' leave. And looking at developments over the past five years, the fathers have on average taken one more day's leave a year. In other words, there is a need for us politically to push ahead. Against this background, we in the Social Democratic Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131604	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131609	Thank you for that, President. I just want to hear from the rapporteur how the Social Democratic Party feels about taking the self-determination of families away from them, because that is what is being done in the area of maternity. It removes the family's right to decide for themselves who is to be given maternity leave. Is it not a little difficult for the Social Democratic Party to do so? It is said that it is in the name of equality, but I am quite convinced that parents would rather have them be allowed to decide for themselves who should have maternity leave and when.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131641	After all, we are in favour of a high degree of flexibility, and we have also said in the past that we really think this should be the responsibility of the families to a large extent, but we must also say that time has made up some of it. And, finally, this is a directive on the part of the European Union which must be implemented in some way, and we think that, as it stands here, there is still a high degree of flexibility for families in this area, plus that we are giving a proper boost to equality. We can, in fact, vouch for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131711	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131712	With existing maternity leave, families have every opportunity to plan. They even have the possibility that the father can take all the maternity leave the mother doesn't want. But here the Social Democrats are bending their necks to the European Union and saying: OK, it comes from the European Union, then we should probably implement it. I am not sure that the leave directive, which the rapporteur stands for here, is basically social democratic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131738	For me, it is also extremely important that the social partners have actually gone in and discussed it here and that both employees and employers have been able to see some prospects in some way for creating more equality and giving fathers better opportunities in this area. So I'm vouching for this bill. I believe that there are also some very good and positive perspectives in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131759	The next brief remark is to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131803	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. Can the rapporteur tell me what the estimated cost of implementing this proposal will be?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131815	I don't have the money on hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131821	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131824	Can the rapporteur try to give a description of what is happening in this proposal, which allows EU citizens across countries to enter Denmark and obtain Danish maternity leave and whether there are costs associated with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131835	I simply have to look into this; I cannot answer it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131839	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131843	I'm a little curious. If it had not come as a demand from the European Union, would this have been politics that the Social Democrats would have put forward in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131854-2	That's a funny way to ask. I think sir... Mattias Tesfaye made it clear that, on the part of the Social Democratic Party, this was not our starting point in relation to this. Now there is a directive, and that is what we are dealing with. So we can talk about what the situation might have looked like if the reality was different. The only problem is that reality is no different. Now we have a reality where there is a directive and where we have chosen to embrace it and say that here too we think there are some perspectives that are moving in the right direction when we talk about equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131926	I assume that reference is made to the Minister for Employment at the time, just to get it quite right. Henrik Møller Correct). Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125131935	But the reality and reason why I am asking the question is that the question is whether social democracy is below what comes from the European Union and says that no matter what comes from the European Union, we just have to introduce it, or whether you actually say that we agree with that. So, what do you say to the Danish people? Do you agree that Danish families should not decide for themselves, but that it should be politically determined, or do you not agree with that? Then I know you feel compelled to do it because it's here. But the question is: what is the position and that is why I would just ask if it had not come, if you would have put forward a proposal like this, because it would have been possible to do so if you had wanted it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132016	I think I answered that earlier in my first speech, namely that we have chosen, when it has come, to embrace it. But it was not something that, as a starting point, was grown in our backyard, in relation to this area, but we think that there are some perspectives in what is going in the right direction in terms of equality. On the other hand, we also believe that there is still a high degree of flexibility in the proposal before us, which is, moreover, an extension of an agreement made by the social partners.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132041	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Hans Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132058	Thank you. The Left is in the agreement to earmark the same amount of maternity leave for both Denmark's fathers and Danish mothers, and we are, because it is a great and up-to-date step forward for equality to give the country's parents equal rights to be with their newborns. Basically, however, the Left is against us having to discuss earmarking maternity weeks for parents at all, but now we have an EU directive in which we have to implement by August this year that every parent in this country is entitled to nine weeks' maternity leave, which is only theirs and cannot be transferred to the other parent. The Left wants to take responsibility for this being done in the most responsible way, because we cannot just leave EU directives alone if we do not like them. It is a bottom-up task that we have to solve, and it must of course be done in the best possible way. The social partners in the DA and the FO have agreed on an overall approach to how to implement such an EU directive in a way that they could also see themselves in it. We in the Left think this is a good demonstration that the Danish model works and that the social partners, like the Left, are prepared to take responsibility for the legislation that also comes from the European Union. The Left is also pleased that it succeeded in agreeing with other parties to the agreement on a maternity regime that is close to what the social partners are proposing, also because this agreement does not earmark more maternity than what the EU directive lays down as minimum requirements. Had it been to other parties to the agreement, the agreement would not have looked exactly the way it is. There had been a greater amount of earmarked maternity leave for each parent. The Left was also the party that drew the government in a more bourgeois direction and has helped to ensure that the self-employed have not been subject to the new rules. It's an important print from the Left. Now the Left notes with satisfaction that there is now a proposal on how to implement the agreement on maternity leave, and the responses to the consultation have also raised concerns as to how the actual implementation takes place, because this is a very complex area for both employers and workers. That is why it is also important for the Left to say that the new maternity scheme must be accompanied by thorough guidance and information so that it is as easily understood as possible. It is also important to emphasise that among other things: The early warning rules for employers must be adapted to the new situation where parents are given greater freedom to exchange leave between themselves, so that employers also have the time to organise their work. So in those words, we will support the legislative proposal. I would also like to thank the parties to the agreements for good discussions that we have had, and we in the Left think that we have had a good agreement on earmarked maternity here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132500	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132505	This is about quotas. How much can one take, how much can the other take from maternity leave? And then I hear the rapporteur say that this is an important step towards equality. When have quotas become part of the policy of the Left to promote more equality?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132522	It is certainly not, but, as I said, this is an EU directive. And as a responsible and very much like a party that also wants to be in government very soon, we take responsibility for the EU directives that come. In this case, we have tried in the best way possible to deal with both an EU directive and to promote maximum freedom within the framework provided by the EU directive. But quotas? No, quotas have not become part of the Left's dictionary to promote equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132558	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132600	I didn't mention it either. It was the rapporteur who mentioned that this was a step in the name of equality, and I do not think that quotas are. Does the Left think that it is okay for the EU to decide on this issue? So now they say that you have a directive and that you will follow it. The Left basically thinks that it is okay for the EU to decide here? And what steps will be taken so that the European Union cannot continue to decide in these areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132626	When we had government power, we fought against that EU directive in the EU. Unfortunately, we were voted down. These are the rules of the game in the European Union. We are an EU-positive party that says that we must then take the EU directive and implement it in the best possible way in Danish law. But it shouldn't be a secret that this hasn't grown in our garden. We do not think that earmarked maternity is the way to promote equality. But this is an EU directive that has come here, and we therefore take the responsibility of ensuring that it also becomes Danish law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132710	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132714	Thank you. I can see that the Left apparently thinks it is quite okay. to deprive the mother of the possibility of nine weeks' maternity leave if it is the case that the danger is not capable of giving birth. Then the Left takes nine weeks' maternity leave from the family. Something else is: the Left thinks it is okay for this legislation to give foreign workers the right to have maternity leave for the children they have down in, for example. Romania? With this law, a foreign worker who has children of 2, 4, 6 and 8 years of age can receive 9 weeks' maternity leave for each child who is in Romania who has never seen Denmark; who is not born in Denmark. Does the Left really think it is okay that it is the policy that should be that one is so much subject to the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132801	First of all, I would like to say that I am at least of the opinion that far, far more fathers will take maternity in the future. And this also means, when you look at the overall course of maternity leave, that the children do not experience that they return to the institution more quickly and that the maternity weeks will actually be exhausted by the parents, both by the woman and by the man. In relation to the question of migrant workers coming here to use the system that we now have on maternity leave, I would say that is precisely why the parties to the agreement have limited it and said: we have to demand that the nine weeks earmarked maternity leave be kept within the first year precisely in order to respond to the concern that Mr. Bent Bøgsted travels here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132855	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132857	Well, four times nine weeks is 36 weeks, which means that they can take 36 weeks together for their four children down in Romania. It's within the first year you can take it. You have the right to have nine weeks for each child. Another thing is that families are deprived of the right to distribute it themselves in relation to the fact that the danger cannot take maternity leave. There are so many who say: Well, they get paid during maternity leave. No, it's not everyone. All paid hours are not paid during maternity leave. And then, of course, families assess the economy. If the father has an income of 30,000-40,000 a month and the mother does not have such an income, it is not said that the father should have maternity leave. It is not even certain that the mother is out on the labour market. But all right, the Left is depriving the families of that self-determination and the right to distribute the bar. It's noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125132950	We are implementing the EU legislation that we are committed to implementing in Denmark in the best possible way and with the aim of creating as much freedom as possible and as much equality as possible in families. We are in favour of individual families deciding for themselves, and we also want to promote this in the best possible way. But this is a bottom-up task, and we take that on board, and so we also take the responsibility that I think is best served by the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133021	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133036	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by saying that the Danish People's Party is of course saying no to this proposal. This is one of the most insane things the European Union has ever made up. It simply deprives the Danish family of self-determination; it deprives the families of the right to distribute the bar. Nowadays, if the family agrees, the danger can take virtually all the barshell, except for the first weeks the mother takes. So the danger can take, if that is what you want, and that is what some families use if women want to move quickly into the labour market and they can agree on it. But with this legislation, it is said that there are 9 weeks to be earmarked for the danger, and it was OK if you had added them. But you take 9 weeks of the existing maternity leave of 1 year and say that it is 9 weeks for the father and that the family, if the danger does not take the 9 weeks, loses them. You can look at the directory after the 9 weeks if the father doesn't take that maternity leave. As I said to the rapporteur from the Left before, they go in a family where the mother has a low income and the danger has a high income, not out saying that the danger must take the brunt, because they also think of the economy. There are many places where they are paid under the bar, and where it does not matter, but for all those families who are not paid under the bar and who are on maternity benefit, it is of course important. It may also be the other way around, i.e. that the mother has a very high income and that the father has a low income, and then the family can plan it and say that the danger takes most of the barsle. So that is just one of the worst things that has happened and you don't think about families. You just think that you are subject to the EU, and the government has not even tried to put a stop to the EU. At least they haven't made a very strenuous attempt at it, but you just bend your neck and say that it comes from the EU, and then you have to accept it, and then you just have to take it out on the Danish families of children. It's crazy the way it is. The Danish People's Party could have been involved in the 9 earmarked weeks if they had been added, as Finland has done, and the 9 weeks if the father did not take them fell away, but the year of maternity reserved for the family should have been kept away from. It has also been done that foreign labour, if they have a couple of children in Romania or Poland, can get nine weeks' maternity leave for each child. Then it is said that it must be kept within the first year. But it is not within the first year after the baby is born, because it just has to be kept within a year. But they can then put the 9 weeks on top of each other in shifts and say that each child has 9 weeks. It doesn't belong anywhere, and that's why it costs so much money. But the worst thing, so to speak, is that self-determination has been taken away from the Danish families, and it has been done in the name of equality and said that oh, it is so important with equality. But equality is also to take account of the self-determination of families, where they can say that they want them to be able to distribute it themselves. I also have children and grandchildren, and I have to promise that my daughters do not like to get involved in how they distribute the barsel, and many other families do not. They will decide for themselves, and if the mother wants to have the opportunity to breast-feed a newborn child for a whole year, then they must be allowed to decide for themselves in the family, and if it is the case that they decide that the father should take most of the barsle, it is also quite okay. But to start saying that it is in the name of equality, and then it is an EU directive that we unfortunately have to follow without fighting, and without being able to do it in a different way, it is not. The Finns also had to implement it, but they did so that they added 9 weeks, and it is also something that the Danish People's Party has suggested that one could have done. But you wouldn't. It was just thought that an EU directive would have to be followed, and then it was agreed with the social partners that this is the way it should be, but it is just not for the benefit of Danish families with children. Perhaps you should have listened more to what the families of children had said in this connection, but they did not, and the Danish People's Party cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133444	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur and the first is from Mrs Carøe, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133451	Thank you. I just wanted to know whether the rapporteur is aware that before we made this agreement, i.e. as it is today, and as it has been for the last 20 years, there were 14 weeks earmarked for mother, but only 14 days earmarked for father. I do not know if the rapporteur knows. There has not been complete free self-determination in the past. It's been earmarked in the past, but just not more than 14 days for Dad.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133517	I am fully aware of this, and I myself helped to make maternity leave back in 2002 or 2003, when it was also adopted. There we laid great emphasis on the fact that it was the families who had to have self-determination, it was the families who had to distribute maternity leave themselves, and there was something earmarked for maternity leave for the mother. Since then, some more earmarked maternity has come to the mother, but there are also certain things that are natural, because it is the mother who has given birth to the child and has had the pain of it. It is not the danger that has had it, so there is some natural earmarking for the mother in this regard. That is clear, and I am fully aware of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133553	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133555	Thank you for that. It was good to get this straight. I also think that what the rapporteur says about adding nine weeks is interesting. We would also have liked to see an extension of maternity leave. Generally speaking, we would like to do so, and we would like to have both more earmarked weeks and several weeks, in general, for maternity leave. But we were also told in the negotiations that it would cost 21⁄2 billion. I do not know whether the rapporteur has any idea where to find that money all of a sudden. Perhaps it is a better idea for us to move slowly towards a direction in which we can have more and more weeks in general for maternity leave. Couldn't we work on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133628	One could, of course, start by not saying yes to giving maternity leave to foreign workers where they can take home the nine weeks earmarked for the danger. Therein there had certainly been good funding for the Danish families of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133641	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133645	Thank you. I would like to stay on the same track, because I understand from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that what is the real problem with the legislative proposal we are dealing with now is the intervention in family freedom of choice, that is, that the really, very big problem is that we should not interfere with that. That is why I would like to start by asking the rapporteur to confirm, first of all, that this is a question of maternity benefit. So there is no compulsion and, secondly, that there will be, just as there is today, if we do not adopt it here, 14 weeks for the mother and 2 weeks for the partner, the danger which has been earmarked and which lapses if we cannot or will not take it. Is the Danish People's Party against the earmarking and interference in family freedom as there are in the existing rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133745	Well in the Danish People's Party we actually wanted the families to decide for themselves the whole bar, except for those weeks that are in connection with the birth, where we know that the mother may need to relax a little. I myself have daughters who have had children, so I am well aware of the problems that may be associated with a birth where you need to relax a little, and there may be good sense in something earmarked there, but otherwise we think it is the family that should be allowed to share the maternity leave as much as is now possible. It is the families themselves who must be allowed to distribute that maternity leave. We don't mind the father taking maternity leave. We are just opposed to locking it down and saying: 9 weeks to the danger, and if the danger can't stop them, then we're taking the family away for the 9 weeks. We do not mind if it were the case that they said: we earmark that the father is entitled to 9 weeks, but if the father cannot keep the 9 weeks, the mother still has the right to have the 9 weeks. But what you do is you completely remove the 9 weeks from the children's family, and that is actually the biggest problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133847	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133848	The rapporteur keeps on saying that the danger cannot keep the earmarking for the danger. But what I am asking is the earmarking which is for the mother today and which, if the mother is unable to hold it, lapses, because it does not pass on to the father today. And I understand that it is the Danish People's Party so opposed. Well, nothing should have been earmarked. It is really a huge problem, I think, that the rapporteur began his speech by saying that it was completely insane or insane that something should be earmarked for the danger. I have just never heard the Danish People's Party talk about how crazy and crazy it was that today 14 weeks have been earmarked for the mother, who lapses and cannot be transferred to the father if the mother cannot hold them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133932	In fact, I think I will start by saying that we would like as much as possible to be distributed by the parents themselves. There are some weeks in connection with birth and it could be shortly before birth and right after birth where it is really necessary for the mother to have maternity leave. But how many weeks it has to be, must be up to the individual family. And those 14 weeks so that we could also be distributed by the family themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125133957	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Carøe. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125134025	Thank you. For SF, this is a historic day. For a very long time we have wanted to have earmarked maternity for fathers and mothers in the same way as has been earmarked for mothers today. This is good for equality in families, and it is good for equality in our labour market, for unequal pay and for a great many other things. And then it's good for the kids, too, because they get the right to be with their father in the first part of their life. There's a lot of good things in this deal. First of all, we're earmarking weeks for Dad and putting Mom and Dad on the same terms. Would we have liked it to be more in the SF? Yes, we did. We ourselves have proposed 14 weeks for each in the first place, because that is what Mom has earmarked today. We would also have liked to see the period of leave extended by a few weeks, but because it is a very, very high cost to the state, it is something we are working on instead. So this is not something we could find a majority for in that debate. So, of course, it can be better. However, in addition to earmarking, we have also ensured with the agreement that we have equal solo parents. In the past it has been the case that solo mothers have been able to take the whole bar, but if you are a solo father, there is a great deal of maternity that has been lost. And then solo parents can also ask a close family member to spend the first couple of weeks, when the baby is very small, with them on maternity leave instead of the parent who, of course, is not there when you are a solo parent. And then we have secured better rights for rainbow families. It is now possible to transfer some of the free leave to either a third or a fourth parent. We're really, really happy about that too. Then I am also very pleased with the flexibility that we secured in the agreement. It became very technical in the negotiations, and it is also a very technical agreement. At first it was very locked when Mom was going to take the bass and when Dad was going to take the bass. But now it is fortunately the case that it is much more flexible, so that you can find out for yourself in the families: when during this period do I want to have maternity leave and when should my partner be given maternity leave? So we're really happy about that. But what is also important is that we keep an eye on flexibility. I can also read in the hearings that there are some who are concerned that this will not be the case when we come out in reality. However, the important thing is, of course, that we keep an eye on the fact that flexibility also exists in families and in workplaces. And then I am really glad that we have written this evaluation into the agreement so that we keep an eye on how the agreement develops, how many people take this maternity leave and what it means for equality and all sorts of other things. So all in all, it's a really good deal, even if it had been up to SF • like to have been even more ambitious. But this is basically really good. And, of course, SF votes in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125134338	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125134352	Thank you very much. It has led to much debate that we in Denmark are now about to have earmarked maternity for fathers, but it is evident that this is the recipe for how we get more and more equality in Denmark. The bill we are discussing here today gives men and women the same rights to maternity leave and let me just say it: it is only time. Up to now, there has been far more leave earmarked for women than for men, and that has therefore run out of time. There is nothing to suggest that mothers should be better parents than fathers, and with this bill, 11 weeks' maternity leave is now earmarked for each parent while the rest is shared. As is the case today, leave is distributed on average in such a way that women take 90 per cent. of leave, and men take 10%. And even if it's a long way from 10%. At 50 per cent, we can lean on the Nordic countries, which have long been equal to the bar, and here is the experience that many men will take more maternity leave than today. And it is good for both father and his association with his very young children; it is good for the children and their well-being that the fathers too are active in the child's early years; and then it is good for equal pay if there is a more equal distribution of the bar, because as it is today, it seems that women lose 10%. of their living income per year; child, while men do not feel on pay when new family members arrive. And then this law also creates a huge advance for lgbt+ families and for solo parents. In the Radical Left, we would have liked to go further. We would, for example, like: I would have liked to have recognised fellow fathers with this bill; we must then take that separately with a citizen's proposal. We would also have liked to see these opportunities for equality also applied to the self-employed and to the unemployed, and so we would have liked to have earmarked a larger proportion of the bulwark than is now the case. But everything in its time, apparently, although for us it had actually been time now. Today, I shall confine myself to welcoming the historic progress that we in the Radical Left have been fighting for too long and that is why, of course, we also support the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125134621	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Pernille Skipper. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125134637	Thank you for that, President. The Enhedslisten is also part of the political agreement behind this bill. The Enhedslisten was originally opposed to the directive because we thought it was something that we could do nationally ourselves, but have been fighting for many, many years for equality between parents in the field of maternity in order to guarantee fathers and co-mothers the same rights to maternity leave as the birther has. There are many good reasons for this. Equality is one of the arguments. It is the case that we still have 12-14 per cent inequality between men and women today, and when we examine why, we can see that one of the reasons for this is that women take so much more of maternity leave than men that it puts themselves in pay over a long life, in retirement and in promotions. On average, women lose 10%. of their living income per year; child, they get for men that figure is 0 per cent. This is one of the things that we must try to do by cultivating that men take a greater share of maternity leave. Then it is about equal rights and the recognition of fathers as carers. There was a time when maternity was something that was reserved for women, where caring for children was something that was reserved for women, where caring for the home was both the duty of women and their right, and where it was something that men should refrain from. Fortunately, we are past that time, and giving men and fathers the same rights to be primary carers and to have the chance to do so is a really, really important step. It is also because we need to push on the jobs of men. When 3F e.g. has examined why their members do not take more maternity leave, it is often because they get a "no" from the boss or from the wife such a little harshly set up. The culture at work is not that men take maternity leave; it is seen a little skewed for men taking a longer leave. We need to push that change in culture. We need to give some arguments to those men who want something more. But it's also about the child's best interests. And in the debate that has been going on in connection with the implementation of the directive and the political agreement and it has been great many have been accused of letting children suffer on the altar of equality, I think it has actually been said sometimes. And I don't think that's right. Study on study shows that children benefit from having two, both father and mother, close to, also in the early years of life, and that if the fathers are involved from the very beginning, there is also a greater likelihood that they will remain so throughout childhood. This gives children better chances of life when it comes to education and jobs and to staying out of crime. It has really, very many good effects for children, that they have fathers who are close, committed and involved, and we will get that to a greater extent if they are also present early. Like many others, we would also like to extend maternity leave without question. But this is about pushing for many good reasons, so dads take a bigger share. And the money wasn't there to expand this time. In addition, we will also now ensure that lgbt+ families have better opportunities to be more shared than only the two parents, and we will ensure that solo parents also have better conditions. I think this is very important and a step in modernising our maternity legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135102	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party. And it's so nice just to get ready for the next one, thank you very much. Welcome to sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135122	Thank you very much. It cannot come as a surprise to anyone that we find it difficult to support this proposal as it stands right now. I am aware that this bill comes from an EU directive, which dates back to 2019, and, as you know, it states that there must be at least 9 weeks of maternity earmarked for fathers. In Denmark it will then be 11 weeks due to our existing rules. Specifically, we have proposed that the country's municipalities should be obliged to provide support for at least nine weeks of home care for infants. This was such a way to limit some of the slightly negative consequences of the earmarked maternity leave. We believe that it removes too much freedom from the family and, above all, we think that it will have some negative consequences that children should start earlier in an institution if parents are not able to take the maternity weeks because of work, economics or other things that have been mentioned today. We are not going to under-authorise and push a uniform set of rules over the heads of all Danish families. Parents are different, and they prioritise differently and in different ways. They must be allowed to do so. As I mentioned, we think we have made some good suggestions on how this can be done. Earmarked maternity is an intervention in the freedom of families to prioritise how they want to adapt during the period when their young new child gets used to the world. It should never be the responsibility of the state to decide how a family chooses to have maternity leave. In the Conservative People's Party, we believe that parents know best for themselves what is best for their families, for their economy and for their young new child. Against this background, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135317	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First of all, it is Mrs Astrid Carøe, the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135323	Thank you. I am simply so curious about Conservatives' attitude to the fact that this is a proposal from the European Union that needs to be implemented. In the SF we would like to see it implemented no matter what, and I would also like it to be more expanded than it is now, but we have to admit that this is a minimum implementation. Will Conservatives just not follow the things that come from the European Union? Is this a new line from the Conservative People's Party, or how are we supposed to understand this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135350	No, it's definitely not a new line. As a rule, we always want to support the EU directives. Maybe we just think this is very, very rough. We think it is very harsh in that citizens from other EU countries can come here and keep their maternity leave when their families live abroad. And it's also about 9 weeks suddenly turning into 11 weeks because of the fact that we have 2 weeks in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135416	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135418	After all, these two weeks come from the European Union. Well, so this is a minimum implementation. And even though SF would have liked to have seen it more, you just have to admit that this is a minimum implementation. There is a lot of EU policy that I disagree with, but we have to implement it in the Folketing. So what I really would like to ask the rapporteur is: will you do away with this if you come into government at some point, and if so, how do you imagine that you will have to live up to this EU directive?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135446	There I have to say that I simply cannot answer the last part of the question, because that is not something we have turned around in our group at this time, so I must be guilty of your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135456	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135459	I am a little curious in the same direction, because if this is so crazy that Conservatives are willing not to implement an EU directive with all the consequences that usually really are Conservatives' line • if it is an impeachment, and if the state is never allowed to interfere in the freedom of families in this way, then I just do not understand where the many Conservatives' proposals to abolish the 14 weeks of earmarking for women who have existed for 15 years or something have gone on. Where have we seen Conservatives fight against the huge intervention that has been in the freedom of families, since today more than nine weeks have been earmarked for women?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135554	Well, listen, it is true that there are 14 weeks for women today. As my colleague from the Danish People's Party said before, it is also very natural that women should have them in relation to some of them. After that, there have been 32 weeks of sharing between parents, from which parents are free to choose. They should be allowed to do so, and we would actually be happy to continue doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135621	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135623	That doesn't make any sense compared to what I asked you about, I'm sorry. Today 14 weeks are earmarked for the mother and 2 weeks for the father. If you don't take them as a family, they lapse; i.e., if the mother doesn't want or can or is self-employed it happens, I'll just say ( Niels Flemming Hansen I know it.), they shall lapse. Then the father can't be allowed to take them. And now that you, instead of being called 14-2, distribute them, so it's 9-9, you suddenly think it's a huge operation. It just sounds a little bit as if it has become a huge interference in the freedom of families, the second that it is men who have earmarked some maternity leave, but as long as it is women, it is not an intervention.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135709	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135710	Then I repeat what I said before: today it is the case that there are 14 weeks for the mother, and then there are 32 weeks for distribution, which the families themselves can distribute, just as they like. Nobody is questioning that. No one wants to do anything bad about that. We would like to see a model made where it was all free, so we implemented it and said that the parents must find out for themselves. Then I just mention that there are a few weeks after a birth where it may be necessary for the mother to take the leave. There is also something about breast-feeding etc. But we would like this to be distributed so that families could be allowed to decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135747	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135750	I can't even understand this side of the room's negativity about this. I think it is a wonderful day today, when Conservatives are now standing up and fighting against the European Union. We're just gonna have the Left with us and we're gonna start moving in the right direction. To quote the rapporteur, this was too harsh. In other words, when something comes from the European Union that is simply too harsh for us to be able to participate, it is okay for the Danish state to go against an EU directive. Is it correct to understand that, from now on, it is a case-by-case assessment whether you think it is too gross for you to implement it? At least that was the rapporteur's own words.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135826	Yes, in this case it is at least an assessment case, i.e. an assessment case, in relation to the fact that it is going to hurt the families, and an assessment case, in relation to the fact that it costs an insane amount of money to implement it. As far as I remember, the sum alone is 2023 1.3 billion. kr. It's all black.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135845	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135847	I fully agree that this proposal from the European Union is completely black. I must say that I am delighted and pleased that Conservatives are now saying that it is now going to be an assessment case from time to time. Because either you have the principle that you adopt everything, or it is a matter of assessment from time to time. And the principle that you always follow it is gone now because you say it is a matter of assessment and that you have made an assessment this time, and I would just like to congratulate you on that. I think it's nice and new tones from Conservatives. It's going the right way. We just need to bring the Left with us, and we'll get it going.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135921	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135922	The next brief remark is to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135929	Thank you very much. I took note of the fact that the Conservative rapporteur, in his reply to my colleagues in this Chamber, said in a couple of rounds that the present system provides for a number of weeks for free distribution between parents. Well, there are 14 plus 2 weeks of earmarked maternity leave, and then there are a number of weeks for free distribution. Would the Conservative rapporteur not just confirm that with this bill there are 26 weeks for free distribution between parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125135958	Well, there are 4 weeks before birth, 11 weeks for mother, 26 weeks for free distribution and 11 weeks for father.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140004	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140006	Well, then there are exactly a number of weeks that you can freely distribute, and they can then belong to Mom or Dad, or you can split them between yourself. Something else that I am actually a little curious about is this in relation to the European Union, because it is not that Conservatives could at some point end up in government and, imagine, perhaps also take the Prime Minister's position in such a government. So, frankly, how would Conservatives as a government party, a government party, implement such an EU directive? Or would you just turn your back on the consequences it has?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140045	Then I think we would have set ourselves at the negotiating table with the proposals we have made ourselves and found a good solution to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140052	Thank you, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140103	Thank you for that, President. I am here with the list of members of parliament who know best how families are to have maternity leave. As people can see, the list is empty. There are absolutely no names on the list, because there are no members of parliament in here, no one at all, nor me, so we get to 179, who know best how a family is to have their maternity leave. That is why we must, of course, refrain from dictating one thing or the other, and whether it comes from the European Union, whether it comes from the Assembly, because anything else would be completely unforgivable. Families know best for themselves. The only way to make maternity leave right is to create a framework for it, that is what we say must be maternity leave, and then we let the families fill it out for themselves. And it's about whether it's gonna be a mother, whether it's gonna be a father, whether it's gonna be a grandmother or a grandpa or who else in the family, they think they're right to do that job so that families' lives can hang together. That would be modern family politics. That would be moving family policy to 2022. But the idea that quotas, where politicians are to decide how families should adapt, should be an expression of a modern family policy never ever. Then you will even give such a preface that it is good for equality, but quotas have never been good for equality, and it will never work. So this proposal is about more coercion, less self-determination for families, and that is why, of course, we cannot support it in the new citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140300	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. So I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber who wish to speak to this debate, and so I can give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140314	Thank you very much for the floor, and thank you very much to all the rapporteurs for the debate today, also for the broad support that is coming up for this bill. It is therefore no secret, as several people have also said in today's debate, that we Denmark would have preferred to have seen the EU leave the organisation of leave to the Member States. But now the directive is here and I think we have handled the task so that it both solves what we have to do and also promotes what we want, namely a fairer distribution between parents, but with the possibility of great individual flexibility. At the same time, we create a better framework for lgbt+ families and solo parents. It is a fact that women still take much more leave than men, which helps to distort equality in homes and in the labour market. I am therefore also pleased that the government, together with the Left, the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, reached a broad political agreement on 26 October last year on the implementation of the directive, which is based on a joint presentation by the Danish Employers' Association and the main trade union organisation, and which is also widely recommended by the social partners. Thank you very much both to the parties and not least to the parties for the very great work that everyone has put into the task. The draft law introduces, as something new, a so-called 24/24 model, where parents are placed right after birth and where we earmark what the Leaves Directive imposes on us. Earmarking must support parents to an even greater extent than they do today in taking an equal share in the leave with the child. This allows both parents to create an early and real connection with the child. The fact that with the bill we give parents the right to transfer leave to social parents so that they can also take part in the leave is something that I personally really appreciate. This is a very important step for lgbt+ families in Denmark. In addition, the bill allows solo parents to share their leave with a related family member so that they can be relieved in the first time with the young child. I am sure that the new rules will give rise to questions and debate, but it is my clear expectation that with the new rules we will have a better framework for equality in families and support the new family forms that we see at home. I look forward to the goodwill of the Danish Parliament and, of course, I shall be at the disposal of the next committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140547	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140552	Thank you. The Minister speaks of equality in people's own homes. I think the Minister called it equality in their own homes and that equality should be ensured in the context of maternity leave. Will the next thing be that the Minister thinks that the government should talk about equality, about who should do the dishes, who should clean, who should vacuum or mow the lawn? As far as equality is concerned in your own home, it is surely the family that is best at finding out how the distribution should be in your own home, and this also applies to maternity leave. I think it is rather strange to talk about equality in one's own home. The Minister might as well say that a directive has been given that we should distribute the bar between men and women in this way, and then the Minister could say that we are against that, but we have to comply with EU rules. That would have sounded better. But the Minister is talking about equality in people's own homes. It must be the family itself who has to decide who has to do what in the home.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140700	I would like to start by saying that we do not have any concrete plans to interfere with who takes the dishes or who mows the lawn. In general, I think this is the way things are going, too, that the vast majority of families find that they also have a more harmonious relationship if there is some kind of distribution of it. But I'm not gonna interfere with that. It's just from my own experience. But it is clear that we should not legislate on it. But Mr. Bent Bøgsted is right that it is the position of the government and it was also the position of the Social Democratic Party when we were in opposition and gave the then government support for the negotiating mandate that the social partners themselves have to solve it here. It was then a battle that we lost in the European Union, and now the directive is here, and from then on we have had the idea that we might as well make the best of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140751	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140751-2	I am actually glad that the Minister is saying that I am right. The Minister has said several times from the platform: sir. Bent Bøgsted is right, but that's not the way we work in here in the Parliament we do what we want. But Mr. Bent Bøgsted is right. I have gradually found out that when I am right, the Minister and the government act directly opposite, but I've learned to live with that for a long time here, so it's gonna be okay. But I know that every time the Minister has said that I was right, the Minister has screwed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140828	I think you can look at it as you please. I believe that there are many cases where Mr. Bent Bøgsted is right, and Mr. Bent Bøgsted has also proved to have a great influence, both on this government and on the whole, all this time, Mr. Bent Bøgsted has been a member of the Folketing. However, we think that, as the directive is here, we might as well take advantage of the possibility of creating a system that gives the families as much freedom as possible within the framework of the directive, and then we believe and hope that at the same time it will also have the effect that both mother and father will have more time with the child.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140905	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140908	Now we found out earlier that there was a limit for Conservatives about which of the things that come from the European Union that you want to implement, and then I get curious. Is there also a limit to social democracy? Can there be a directive or something else coming from the European Union in which the Social Democratic Party says: No, not on our watch. We simply do not want to offer that to the Danes; here and no longer! Or do you always want to implement what's coming, no matter what blow it might be? Now the minister himself says you've lost this battle. So one can imagine that there could be a blow that one loses, but where one still says that one simply does not want to be a part of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125140947	As Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen has probably also noticed that we are not afraid to fight about the legislation of the European Union, even when we know in advance that we are a minority. It is clear that there can be legislation. We've already seen that. Sometimes Denmark also raises cases before the Court of Justice. Nor will we pre-depreciate the possibility of initiating an action for annulment, for example, if there is a minimum wage directive that seriously undermines the way wages are negotiated on the Danish labour market. It's just to give a concrete example. But you will not see the Social Democracy, either in government or in opposition, stand up after a directive has been adopted and say: we will not accept the responsibility to implement it. Then we will have to take the wrong path and try to bring an action for annulment or the like. We must build the alliances that can be built between countries so that we can really change them. But you're not going to see the Social Democracy take the position that we heard Conservatives, I think, pretty smooth take before.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141049	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141051	What is the reason for not taking that position in this directive and perhaps bringing a case? I assume that, on the basis of an assessment, it has been decided that it will not be done in this matter. When you can estimate that you might want to do it when it comes to minimum wages, what are the reasons why you don't want to do this? Didn't you think it was important enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141111	The very clear difference is that there is nothing contrary to the Treaty or to the legal basis of the Leave Directive. We in Denmark can have some political reasons why we do not think that the European Union should set a framework for this, because we have another way of agreeing both pay and leave and everything else at home. After all, what is positive on top of the directive is that the social partners have come together for a very good and balanced solution, which makes it possible for us in the Folketing on the back of it to implement it here with all balances intact.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141147	Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141201	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome to sir. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141219	The bill that we are now going to deal with is about holding hands under those children in children's families where Mom and Dad are not at work. But before I wish to justify the support of the Social Democratic Party for the bill, I would like to start somewhere else. As I hope everyone is aware, employment in Denmark is actually going very well. Recording people are part of the labour market; they stand up and contribute to the community, and that is really, really, really good. So there should be no doubt that, as Socialists, we believe that the best thing for all children is to see both mother and father stand up and go to work. That is what we are trying to achieve. Employment among non-western immigrants is also now record. In fact, the employment rate among non-Western immigrants was recently measured to be the highest in 13 years. This is very positive, and we must continue to fight to ensure that we get the very last of them on the wagon. It benefits society, but it also benefits the individual and the individual's family. However, although employment is high and a great many have been raised from cash aid to self-sufficiency, we still have to get the last of them with us, and we must not forget them. And most importantly, we must not forget the children. There are three essential considerations in the draft law that we are discussing today, which we attach great importance to in the social democracy. One is that there must always be a gain by taking a job. The second is that we must not increase the influx to Denmark through high benefits. And the third is that it must never be the children who pay the price for Mom or Dad not being at work. That is why we concluded a temporary family allowance agreement back in the autumn. The purpose of the temporary family allowance was to provide children with reasonable conditions and equal opportunities to be part of the community. In this case, we're gonna side with the kids. It is the case that the exclusion of children from the community has major consequences, for example. in the local leisure association. For this reason, the Government also asked the Service Commission to draw up recommendations for a new benefit system which could balance the two considerations on a reasonable basis and a sufficient benefit by going to work. Now we have to get to the hard part of the task. We need to agree on how to design our performance system in the future so that it is both more transparent and simpler, but it also has the right balance between a number of considerations. It is not because we imagine that this will be an easy task, but I have no doubt that the result will be best if we succeed in working together on the task across the parties of the Folketing. That is why I also believe it is necessary to give the process the time it needs, and that is why it is also necessary to extend the temporary allowance. Of course, children should not suffer from the fact that we need more time politically to agree on how a new system of benefits should be properly weighted. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141537	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment. Sir. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141542	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. On April 10, 2019, the current Prime Minister spoke to B.T. • Foreign policy is not relaxed. And the benefits will not be increased. • How does the rapporteur feel it is in keeping with the fact that the draft law we are discussing here today cements the fact that the benefits to immigrants and refugees are now being increased, and therefore also that it is de facto a relaxation of immigration policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141625	I would say that I think we have done what we said we wanted before the 2019 elections. We give a hand to badly needed families of children, and the temporary family allowance is about giving the children in Denmark better conditions. We have a lot of work to do, and it's a little bit how to do it. Maybe more than 50,000 children living in poverty. We really don't think that's okay, no matter what kind of ethnicity or anything else there is. It is a question of giving the children proper opportunities, which is why I think we are really living up to what we said in 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141702	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141705	That was not a comment on what the current Prime Minister said, namely that we did not want to relax immigration policy, exactly what is happening with this bill. But then I just have a very specific question: if the rapporteur had 132 million. kr. in hand, what would the rapporteur prefer to use them to raise the benefits of refugees and immigrants or to add them to our health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141743	Well, that's almost the question: Have you stopped beating your wife, and I want a clear answer, yes or no? Whatever you answer, it can be used or abused in this context. I think we are living up to an agreement that we made when we made the government with a common understanding paper saying that we are going to do something about child poverty. And that's kind of what we're doing here. And we will do so until we have a new performance system, where we have to look at different balances. We must give it the time it needs. But it's as if it's a either-or, and I don't necessarily think it is. There will also be a lot of health policy discussions. It's not like because this amount won't be spent here, it's going to be per. automatic be used for something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141832	The next brief remark is to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141836	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I noted that the rapporteur spoke about the need to have time to look at the next system of benefits. We are very pleased that there must be time. Can the rapporteur confirm that approx. Sixty-three percent. Of the families on this scheme, aren't Western immigrants?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141857	I simply have to say again that this is a question of children. It's not a matter of ethnicity. And there we have not looked at which background one comes from; there we have looked at what kind of benefits are given and what kind of economy these children are exposed to in this family. Sometimes it sounds like it's gold and green forests in these families, but it's some children living in child poverty, and that's what we're trying to counter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141925	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141926	All right, then I will ask the rapporteur something else when he does not want to answer this. That's 717 kroner. per child you can get in tax-free allowances. If you now have two children, how great is the difference between being on cash benefits and having a low-wage job in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125141942	I cannot do the final amount, but there is no doubt that there is still a financial gain from having a low-wage job. But that's exactly one of the things we need to look at in connection with the system of benefits, that is, how we ensure that these balances are in order. I would insist that this is an attempt to counter child poverty, and I think we are helping to solve that. But that is not a lasting solution. That is what we have to find in the negotiations on a system of benefits, and I hope that the Conservatives will bid and constructively enter into the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125142014	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125142018	Let us get some facts straight: the benefits are being raised here, and this is being done for a group which is mainly the descendants of immigrants. Now I hope we can just make it clear that that is what we are doing. Then you come up with an argument as to why you have done it and that is fair enough, it is an argument • but you have mainly raised the benefits for a particular group here. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125142051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125142051-2	I just have to say that we did what we also said in 2019, namely that we would do something about the child poverty that is, and I actually mean we are doing something about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125142103	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125142103-2	Yes, but then we can recommend that people go in and read the answer that came when the rapporteur does not want to explain it and say so, namely that there is an increase in benefits mainly for immigrants. Then I am just surprised that, if it is to abolish child poverty, which is so much talked about, why, while you have been sitting as a government, have you made the group that has the least, relatively poorer compared to the other groups? That is quite contrary to what you are now saying you will do. The policy pursued so far by the government has, of course, meant that the amount for those who have the least has fallen compared with those who have the most. So why has that policy been pursued? It's against what you're saying now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125142149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125142150	When we talk about this: there are huge financial gains in connection with this, we just have to say that the ceiling on cash benefits for spouses, where one or both receive integration benefit and do not meet the 225-hour requirement, and for a parent with two or more children is DKK 9,400. I just can't see that it should somehow animate and inspire that you don't get out and get a job or anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125142224	Thanks to the Socialist rapporteur, there are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr. Hans Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125142240	Thank you. We are currently facing a situation in which the shortage of labour is the greatest challenge facing us as a society. It is very simple: companies cannot get the manpower they need, and therefore they must reject orders. That is why it seems paradoxical that today we are dealing with a legislative proposal to extend the temporary family allowances which, although we really need them, keep unemployed refugees and immigrants out of the labour market. The amount of the temporary allowance is DKr 2 000. extra tax-free every month. This is a wrong, quite wrong direction in employment policy, which helps to reduce the incentive to take a job; instead, you choose to make it attractive to be on passive support, which does no good to anyone. Today, half of non-western immigrant women in Denmark are not in jobs, while seven out of ten ethnic Danish women in the labour force are in employment. In the Left, we believe that as many people as possible should contribute to the community, and we believe that we must pursue a policy that brings people up in the morning to do a job. That is the attitude that makes society run around; that is what we have to motivate people to do; that is not what the bill does. In the Prime Minister's New Year speech, the Prime Minister also mentions that Denmark needs more women with a non-Western background to work. The best thing is to get a job, the message was. If the Prime Minister thinks so, this extension sounds rather hollow because, on the one hand, there is a guessing about a showdown while, on the other hand, there is a policy that prevents the intention. When the left last had government power, we were in charge of introducing the ceiling on cash benefits, the integration allowance and the 225-hour rule. At that time 87,000 children saw one of their parents leaving the cash assistance system, and it means a lot to children and their future that they see parents who have something to stand up for in the morning. That is precisely the motivation for them to see, and that is what we must build on. Children have three times as much chance of getting on cash benefits if only one of their parents is on the allowance. 12,000 people are expected to receive the temporary allowance. It does not in any way provide a clear incentive to take a job and does not exactly help to close the gap in the labour supply created by the government with the Arnepension. The Left has put forward a proposal for the abolition of temporary family allowances: we want to create a framework for immigrants who make it attractive to work so that they become part of the working community and contribute to the community. The draft law does exactly the opposite, which is why we cannot support the draft law as it stands today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125142555	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur, and so I can give the floor to the next rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. Welcome to sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125142620	Thank you. It is always nice when someone appreciates going to the platform, so thank you to the President. This bill cannot be supported by the Danish People's Party. When it was done at the time, as I understand it, it was in connection with this special understanding paper, where the government promised, I think it was Enhedslisten, perhaps a party or two more. I do not remember that this Commission of Service had to be set up, and in this connection it was agreed that until the Service Commission came to a conclusion, the benefits for cash benefits recipients, returnees and recipients of self-employed and transitional benefits, which are mainly migrants, should be paid home. That's what they promised back then. Then the Service Commission was postponed, and then this agreement has to be extended because they have received too little money. At the same time, the government has had a 37-hour activation system in which the same people who receive this benefit had to be activated, and the government made it very clear that if you didn't show up, you lost your benefit. And then the obvious question is whether, if it were the case that the government got the 37 hours through that I don't know if they do; at least the Danish People's Party is not with and these people lost the benefit, then would come up with an extra increase in benefits to benefit those who then lose some money because they haven't shown up for the activation that they had to show up for. You can always start thinking about that. It is now running this spring, and it is expected that there will be a service commission where you can look at the benefits. But what happens if the Service Commission now comes up with a proposal that the benefits should not be increased? Will you be in a situation where someone says that then we must raise the child benefit, the child benefit, again? That is what we do not know; it is so unresolved. You just push it forward, instead of, like it has been, making sure you get these people out to work. There are some of them here who should not be in Denmark at all. They may need to be repatriated. Perhaps some people are going to have a job instead of just raising benefits. Of course, there are many other families who are not part of this and who would have liked to have had some higher child benefits. There is a great deal of discrimination, but it was for the benefit of its partners in this connection. So in order to have peace and quiet until the Service Commission arrived, this movement was raised, and of course the Danish People's Party cannot do that, because it is going the wrong way in this regard. So of course the Danish People's Party says no to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125142925	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments, so we will continue with the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party. Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125142942	Then we will have to extend once again the temporary family allowance, which is really just a temporary patch on the understanding paper agreed with the government by the support parties. It was back in August-September 2019 that we agreed that the temporary extraordinary family allowance should enter into force instead of the actual agreement on a new benefit system. I do not think it has been overly elegant, in other words the way in which we are going to deal with the same legislative proposal again, by postponing it again. But that is what we have ahead of us. The SF's objective, however, remains exactly the same, namely to tear down the ceiling on cash aid; to put in place an ambitious plan for how we will noticeably and undetectablely have fewer poor children in Denmark; to add more money to the system and to create a more simple and transparent system for total public services. However, it is difficult to wait for negotiations to end with results, but it is impossible to wait for children in poor families. It is necessary to protect children as well as possible during the waiting period, which is why it is a good thing that we are now extending the temporary exceptional allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143125	Thank you. There is no brief comment to Mr. Karsten Hønge, thank you to SF's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143141	Thank you very much. Children are children, and children's future should not be determined by the financial background of their parents. Children should not grow up in poverty at all, because growing up in poverty has not only consequences in childhood, but can also have it later in life. This may result in a lower wage than otherwise, a shorter education or a worse link with the labour market. That is why it is important to ensure a handful of financially-pressed families for children. Since the majority changed in 2019, we have had the temporary family allowances to ensure exactly the calm that makes children from these families do not fall into the consequences I have just mentioned. However, as the name of the benefit indicates, this is a temporary family allowance. That is why I cannot help but regret that we are once again standing here and having to extend the temporary allowance instead of presenting a permanent solution. In the Radical Left, we have followed with great interest the work of the Service Commission and also think that some very good recommendations have been made. It crawls in our fingers to get started with the actual negotiations. We would very much like to see an end to, among other things. cash benefits ceiling and integration allowance. After all, we want to end the temporary nature of the situation and ensure permanent solutions. Until then, of course, there is nothing else for us to do, except, of course, to extend the subsidy, as we are doing with the draft law today. So the Radical Left backs the bill, and I should like to welcome it from the Enhedslisten and say that they also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143327	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143344	Thank you very much. In the Conservative People's Party, of course, we have the view that if you can work, you have to work. It has to pay to work and, as we said last time, this proposal is moving Denmark in the wrong direction. The reason for the proposal lies in the paper "Righteous direction for Denmark" and I personally think that it is deeply unfair and an insult to the people who go to work every day that there are people who get more money for not doing anything. Children benefit from watching their parents go to work every day and contribute to the community. We are not only in a health crisis; we are also in a crisis in the labour market with Danish companies that are really pressured and screaming for labour. That's why we need to get everyone out and look for jobs. We do not do this by increasing or extending social benefits, and we think in every way that the extension is harmful and therefore we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143443	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143447	Will Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen try to document the link between the benefits and the supply of work? Well, what kind of documentation are the Conservatives building their policies on? I can only mention two specific points. It is that when the ceiling on the cash aid was introduced, it had been calculated that on a good day with wind on the bike paths and sunshine 450 people came to work, even if you hit 30,000 families with it. And last month, 17,000 extra people came to work just last month without a single reform that pissed off the lives of ordinary people. So what kind of fantasy world is this, sir? Niels Flemming Hansen lives in?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143527	Well, it's certainly a very imaginative world. That's how it is, sir. Karsten Hønge, that if you give a family 2,000 kroner. more a month tax-free and tax-free, which you will earn in the region of DKK 3,500. to get, it's just where the benefit goes above the minimum wage that's on the market. That is why we are in a situation where, unfortunately, working is not worthwhile.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143552	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143553	That sounds right, but it's just not. We didn't get a millimeter closer to documentation. These are fantasies, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen stands and, to that extent, Parliament's time is being wasted. I'm asking for an answer to something. Efforts have been made to go that way by significantly reducing benefits when the ceiling on cash benefits was introduced. You hit 30,000 families, and on a good day it got 450 people to work. Well, can we agree that it had virtually no effect on the job supply? Last month 17,000 people came to work without any deterioration. So it is without contact with the reality, as Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen otherwise believes to be able to establish in relation to what is needed in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143626	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143628	I just think it's so deep-seated to bring this in alone! Today it is the case that companies are hiring on their lives. People are even being hired who are not qualified for those posts, just to get someone in. As far as I remember the figure, it is actually 27 per cent. of those employed today are out again after six months.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143656	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143707	Thank you. Let us first state a few things: this is a relaxation of foreign policy. The benefits are being increased, and this is being done for a group which consists mainly of immigrants and descendants. It is factual, and although the rapporteur for the Socialist Group would rather not talk about it, one can just look it up in the answer that has been given to it by the government. Then you say: yes, it may be that these are relaxations of foreign policy, and yes, it may well be that this means higher benefits for immigrants, but we do so because we want to combat child poverty. And I'm surprised that's the argument you use. Because if you look at the S-government's own answers, which have also been linked to its economic policy divided by income deciles as a share of disposable income, then you can say that since the inventory was made in 2020, income has fallen mostly for the lowest income decile, that is, the people in society who have the least. In other words, the government's policy has affected those who have at least already. Then the argument about combating child poverty begins to sound really, really hollow. Then it really covers up the fact that what you wanted was to sit with power, and there you needed to please the left wing, and this was what you paid them with. I just think that we should be honest with the Danish people instead of making all the explanations we have heard today. Thank you, and of course New Citizens cannot vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143902	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143906	I understand, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that today, as well as so many other times, he feels extremely provoked when some funds come to families with ethnic minority backgrounds. I would like to ask Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen: Should we introduce such a new distribution system in Denmark, which is not based on an assessment where we fight child poverty, and not on an assessment of family finances, but on the color of the cheeks on the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143933	I think it's a strange racist insinuation. If you spent some time reading up on New Citizens' politics, you could see that our policy is that we believe that public services should only be for Danish citizens. So it is based on nationality. But it probably says more about how the SF's rapporteur thinks than about how the rest of us do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143949	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125143950	Yes, as usual, we do not come much closer to an answer when Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen is answering something. But at least I'll try again. Now that we have to distribute money in Denmark, should we take economic models where we look at what the families have at their disposal, or should we assume the color of the children on their cheeks when we fight child poverty?
ParlaMint-DK_20220125144009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125144010	The only person who makes racist remarks in the Chamber right now is the rapporteur for the SF. So the other thing I don't want to be condescending to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125144017	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. Then there are several rapporteurs who have asked for the floor, and the last person who will then be on the floor is the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125144035	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteurs for their comments. There should be no doubt that this government is taking sides with the children. Children in Denmark must grow up under proper conditions; they must go to leisure activities, participate in children's birthdays and in general enjoy the many opportunities offered by Danish society. That is why we gave the Commission the task of making recommendations for a new system of benefits which provides a balance between a reasonable level of remuneration and a sufficient incentive to look for work. At the same time, it should take into account that children in Denmark must grow up with the opportunity to take an active part in the community. In the autumn of 2019 the Government concluded an agreement on a temporary family allowance. It was intended to provide children with reasonable conditions and equal opportunities to be part of the community until the Service Commission had presented its recommendations and a new benefit system could enter into force. Now the government is following up on the work of the Service Commission, and it is still the government's and my clear ambition to land a broad and balanced agreement so that there can be calm about the cash assistance system. But I would also like to be quite honest and say that this is a difficult task. Firstly, the system of cash benefits is in itself a large and complex one, and secondly, it takes time to work towards the right balance between the many different considerations to be taken into account. Because, on the one hand, children must grow up under reasonable conditions, including those whose parents do not have a job, on the other hand, our public services must not increase the influx to Denmark, and, at the same time, there must be a clear and clear benefit by getting up early and jumping on the bike to go to work instead of going home on public support. In other words, the discussion on the benefits of the future is as difficult as it is important, but we owe it to spend the time and effort on the work that is needed. Those children whose mother and father are on cash aid deserve to be taken seriously, and let me make one thing clear: the children should not pay the price while we politicians are discussing. Therefore, the Government has put forward a bill to continue the temporary family allowances until June 2022 as well. Continuation of temporary family allowances must keep a hand under the hands of the families who receive the lowest benefits in the cash benefits system so that they can give their children the same opportunities as their peers in schools and day care institutions. I would like to thank you for the discussion here today and look forward to the further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125144311	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220125144329	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 26 January 2022, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
