ParlaMint-DK_20220111130003	The meeting is open. Since this is the first meeting of the new year, I would like to start by wishing everyone a happy New Year. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 107 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Temporary Family Allowances of Certain Parents (New Extension of Temporary Family Allowances). Anni Matthiesen (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 63 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a new experimental scheme for extended free municipalities in a number of welfare areas). Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Henrik Dahl (LA) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 64 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution setting up the National Research Board). Mette Abildgaard (KF), Liselott Blixt (DF) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 65 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the convening of negotiations on compulsory positions on whether or not to be an organ donor). Henning Hyllested (EL) and Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL): Request no. F 21 (Does the Government intend to replace the Danish aviation strategy, which dates back to 2017 and aims only at more flight, with a new aviation strategy that is put into a climate context?). Pernille Vermund (NB) and others: Question No. F 22 (What does the government intend to do to prevent Danish families from being unduly hit by the rising prices of energy, and will the government also propose to lower or eliminate taxes on energy, which are among the highest in Europe?). Martin Geertsen (V), Liselott Blixt (DF), Per Larsen (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA): Request no. F 23 (Will the Prime Minister explain when the government will call for negotiations on a health reform in order to make the Danish health service more robust, given that the Prime Minister cancelled the negotiations in 2021?). Jacob Jensen (V), Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) and others.: Question No. F 24 (What does the Minister intend to do to respond to the many concerns about the designation of national parks that have been raised in public and in various delegations in the Parliament's Committee on the Environment and Food, including the issues of animal welfare, the possibility of outdoor life, access conditions for, among other things, disabled and safety in the natural parks for example. kindergartens among large animals etc.). Uffe Elbæk (FG) and Jan E. Jørgensen (V): Request no. F 25 (What will the Minister take of new initiatives to ensure that Denmark continues to have a strong and vibrant cultural and artistic life in recent years in the field of culture and art?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Social Democratic Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed a member of the Folketing of Bjørn Brandenborg as a member of the Supervisory Board on the employment of inmates in the institutions of criminal justice for the remainder of the current term of office instead of Kasper Sand Kjær. The person concerned is then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111130206	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111130249	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111130259	Thank you for the floor. In the Social Democratic Party we are pleased that the opportunity to ensure proper welfare in our municipalities has become more equal as a result of the compensatory reform and the agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2022. In fact, the compensation reform has helped to reduce the municipal tax in certain municipalities with high taxes, while municipalities with low taxes have been able to raise the tax. This reduces the difference between municipalities. The municipal tax is expected to increase by approx. 122 million kr. outside the framework agreed in the framework of the compensatory reform and the agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2022. At the same time, it has also been an objective that, overall, the tax should neither increase nor decrease compared to what was agreed, and it is therefore proposed to compensate all citizens for this tax increase by reducing the State base tax in 2022 and the following years by 0,01 percentage points. The reduction of 0,01 percentage points is estimated to result in a smaller revenue in 2022 of approx. 125 million kr. If the haemoglobin level continues to increase, the dose should be temporarily withheld until the haemoglobin level begins to decrease, and if the haemoglobin level continues to increase, the dose should be temporarily withheld until the haemoglobin level begins to decrease, at which point therapy should be started. 90 million kr. after retreat and behavior. Moreover, it is a compensatory approach which is fully in line with what has been done in the past. At the same time, the bill ensures that it is ordinary citizens who are experiencing the benefit of the reduction without compromising our welfare around the country. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111130435	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm after a little cleaning. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111130458	Thank you. This is the annual bill to lower the base tax as a result of the municipalities' raising of municipal taxes, and we in the Left, of course, are in favour of this. This is something that we have done since we introduced the tax freeze in 2001, which does not apply at the moment, but there we compensated citizens through the bottom tax because tax increases came in the municipalities. And through the agreement on the compensatory reform, we have continued the tradition and, of course, we are pleased that we can compensate the citizens so that it does not become more expensive to be a Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111130529	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111130544	Thank you. After all, there are often re-submissions of proposals in the Folketing. This isn't, but it's more like a revenant. After all, it comes back every year, as the rapporteur of the Left also said. For it has been a principle for very many years now that when the municipalities set up the tax, the Folketing compensates by lowering the base tax, so it gives the same amount. This time it's 122 million. kr., with which the municipal tax has been raised, and therefore the base tax is reduced by the very high rate of 0.01%, i.e. from 12.10 to 12.09. So it's probably not something people discover very much out there, but it's a fine principle after all. So like all the other times we've supported this bill, we're gonna do it this time too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111130631	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111130647	Thank you very much for the floor. I'm here as a substitute for the tax rapporteur, sir. Carl Valentin. The draft law we are discussing here proposes to reduce the base tax in Denmark by 0,01 percentage points, because you want to compensate for this increase in municipal taxes. In the legislative text, the government writes that this amendment is the implementation of their own agreement with KL and the agreement on municipal compensation concluded with the supporting parties, the alternative and the left in 2020. But in the SF we do not read the agreement on the compensatory reform completely, as the government does. In the agreement on the compensatory reform, we agreed to support the fact that the income tax of the municipalities under one should not increase as a result of the compensatory reform, which is why we also supported a similar bill a year ago. But neither in the compensatory reform nor in the SF's own party programme have we written in a general principle that in future the tax should be reduced somewhere when it is raised somewhere else. As you know, we are in both a climate crisis and a corona crisis, and among other things. Therefore, we in the SF think that the money that might come from these small tax increases, taken in isolation 122 million. kr., everything else equal could be better used out in the crowded municipalities on e.g. primary school, day care, health care, care for the elderly or in the climate struggle of the municipalities. So the SF cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111130808	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Kathrine Ollldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111130823	Thank you very much, President. It must also be a short round from here. Of course, we support this principle of reducing the base tax as a result of the increase in municipal taxes by the municipalities. We were involved in the compensatory reform and we are extremely pleased that we have incorporated that element, and we are, of course, behind that principle. So the Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111130852	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111130902	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we basically disagree with this bill because it maintains parts of the bourgeois tax freeze that we are fundamentally opposed to. The annual reductions in the base tax to compensate for increasing municipal taxes are a relatively expensive affair when you see what has been decided in recent years. We in the Group of the European People's Party have asked the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, when dealing with the previous legislative proposals, what are the revenue implications of these corresponding reductions in the base tax? The reductions agreed between 2018 and 2021 cost the Treasury as a whole up to EUR 1 billion. kr. A year ago, and we simply think it costs too much money to keep the remains of the bourgeois tax freeze. By dropping annual savings, we are in no way taxing our citizens on fire. A cancellation of the reductions from 2018 to 2021, which totals 0.1 percentage points, would mean that the disposable income would decrease by 60 DKK. for 190 kroner. per year for the poorest part of the population, and even for the 10 per cent. According to the Danish Treasury, the decline in disposable income is limited to DKK 510. A year, which corresponds to approx. 43 kr. a month. In short, this is a small and very marginal increase in taxation and, moreover, the distribution profile is completely neutral. On the other hand, we write off an amount of up to 1 billion. kr. a year, which we need so much. This money is needed, both in the welfare sector, where health professionals have expressed very clearly that there are absolutely impossible conditions and enormous workloads on too many departments, but also in relation to the green transition, where we also need funds. And yet we're supposed to write off money ritually by making these reductions of the bottom tax. We believe that the money for welfare is needed from the Enhedslisten, and we do not believe that this automaticity, which is the remains of the bourgeois tax freeze, makes sense. The Enhedslisten cannot therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111131108	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111131129	Thank you. Then it was Christmas anyway, and we will have a tax relief. That's nice. Thank you so much. Unfortunately, this is due to the fact that there has been an increase in taxes, so perhaps the joy is a little limited anyway, but it is a good, sensible rule that we have to reduce the base tax once municipal taxes have increased. There is little to say about that, but of course we support it. There was one small detail in the bill that I wondered about and that the tax minister might be able to clarify. It was stated that the bottom tax on Christiansø, i.e. on Ertholmene, is 4%. Actually, I didn't know that and what the background is for it. After all, it is wonderful that there is a place in Denmark which is a definite tax haven where you really pay low taxes and do not pay municipal taxes. But I didn't actually know that the bottom tax was only a third of what it is in the rest of the country. One might ask the government if it was willing to give the same status to other areas of Denmark. I've always thought it might be a nice place to live, but that you should probably also be able to afford to have a helicopter so you could get to work. So that's why I haven't applied to get out there. But this is a good bill and we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111131241	I'd like to ask you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov wipes off. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111131303	Thank you. I think it is excellent if we start to turn parts of Denmark into low-tax areas. Now it was an island, but I can also make another suggestion: What about Jutland? Or we could start there, and then we could see how it went from there. In relation to this bill, it is rare that we are allowed to talk about tax cuts from the platform up here, and it is rare that we are allowed to vote them through, so when that is the case, we in the New Citizens absolutely bite to fuck. And I cannot help thinking, since everyone is praising this good principle that when the municipalities raise the tax, we lower it in here, that if we now spread the principle to apply to all tax increases, so that when we in the Folketing make some kind of tax increase, we automatically lower the base tax immediately with the same amount, it could be nice. We will have to deal later today with a tax increase, and there we could, of course, appropriately lower the base tax on it, so that we never raised the tax. In Denmark we have the highest tax burden in the world and there is no need to make it higher. And there you hear from the left: well, it's just a small tax increase. Yes, and this is a small reduction in taxes, which one cannot undo in those who have the least in society. And we simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111131418	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111131435	Denmark underwent a very extreme development from 1960 to today. When you hear social democratic history-interested people tell about what has happened in Denmark, you almost get the impression that it was Thorvald Stauning who, back in the 1920s, invented the social democratic welfare state, but in 1960, long after Thorvald Stauning was prime minister in Denmark, Denmark had a very low tax burden. In fact, it was only half as high as today. Well, 12 years before I was born and I'm a young man, Denmark had a tax burden that was only half as high as today, i.e. at 25%. of bnp. Then it rose wildly from the 1960s to the mid-1980s, because the public sector grew larger and more and more people came on transfer income and should have paid their income from the public sector instead of earning their own money, and so we are here today with Denmark being an extremist tax country. It is simply the country in the world that has the highest tax burden of all countries. We therefore believe that a general principle should be pursued that taxes are too high in Denmark and that they should preferably be reduced and that they should not be raised at least, and this small bill from the government is in some way an expression of a miraculous agreement with the Liberal Alliance that the tax should not be higher, at least not when it is the municipalities that adopt the tax increases, and that the state will then have to compensate citizens with a reduction in the base tax. As Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen said just before me, it would be nice if the state, too, undertook to reduce taxes every time the state has raised taxes in other areas. But such things can be dreamed of, and we have not yet reached that point. For the time being, the government is only where the state, when the municipalities raise the tax, has to reduce it accordingly. And when a blind hen finds a grain, we will be ready to clap, and we will also vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111131641	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm just gonna make sure that Mr. Cole is okay. Uffe Elbæk is the rapporteur on this matter. No, he's not. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111131657	Thank you. In all immodestness, I may be one of the members of parliament who can best deal with the history of the tax freeze. I was with you all the way from the time it was invented until it was developed. I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that the tax freeze was a tactical and strategic tool. Funny enough, we had to develop a great deal on this tax freeze, so that the then political rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party constantly called it air-roast and wind-fricades, so that in fact over time it came to triumph over time to the h-roast to take more than half of a word out, which I am not allowed to use here, but which is said by a former Socialist Finance Minister, but leave it alone. In this way it actually became a belt fixing of the municipalities. In KD we have been very excited about the Prime Minister's New Year's speech on freedom. The only problem is that this freedom is heavily dosed from in here. And this system we have is a very good picture of the dosage of freedom, because it is possible that it is we who compensate on the bottom tax for what the municipalities are doing, but in reality it is all about the fact that we have a tax stop in the municipalities and that we have a service ceiling in the municipalities that in itself is an absurdity in the real world. In reality, it is a matter of filtering things into each other so much that no one has freedom of movement. We think this is inappropriate. Now let the municipalities decide what their tax rate should be, so that they can ensure a responsible economy. As long as there's money in the box, it's okay. Now let the municipalities decide what their service framework should be as long as there is order in the economy. Now let the municipalities, together with their citizens and the new councillors who have just been elected, make decisions locally. Two thirds of the welfare society is administered municipally. Why do we have to tie each other up with all sorts of belts that are basically of little benefit to many people? I respect the fact that an agreement has been reached between the government and the KL. And on that basis, I had to support this bill in principle, but we think it is quite wrong in principle. We think it's the wrong bond you make on each other. You have to take responsibility locally for the decisions you make about whether it is higher or lower taxes, is a local decision, it does not apply to the butter in here and vice versa. This is an entirely fundamental view because we have the view that municipalities must be freed. And it is a battle that we continue to lead from here, and that is why we are voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111132036	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111132039	I enjoy hearing the rapporteur from the platform, because I very, very much agree with what is being said. If we are then to set the municipalities free, does that mean, at least according to the KD, that the compensation scheme should be completely scrapped? Should money be transferred from the municipality to the municipality, but just not from the state to the municipality, or should the compensation scheme be completely scrapped, or should something else be replaced?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111132103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111132104	No, we do not want to scrap the compensation system, because it is, after all, about some municipalities having a different tax base from others and, in order to ensure a balance in society, we think it is good that there is a compensation system. However, when it comes to determining the level of service and when it comes to determining the tax in each municipality, we believe that it is a municipal decision. This is not something we should interfere with here, as long as a responsible economic policy is pursued and the money fits. We have an overall responsibility for this, but we must not dictate what the municipal tax should be. That is not our policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111132151	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen? No. Then we say thank you to the rapporteur, and then it is the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111132211	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much for receiving this proposal, which has, of course, been positive from almost the whole House. The reason for the proposal, as has also been suggested, is that, overall, the municipal tax is expected to increase by approx. 122 million kr. outside the framework agreed in the framework of the compensatory reform and the agreement on the municipalities' economy for 2022 respectively. After all, the compensatory reform has helped to reduce the municipal tax in a number of municipalities which have considered too high taxes. Conversely, some municipalities with low taxes have raised taxes. This is, of course, a good thing, because in this way the difference in municipal taxes and in the municipalities is then reduced. However, the objective has been that, overall, the tax should not increase or decrease in relation to what was agreed, and that is why the government has already announced, when the budgets of the municipalities had been adopted, that we would seek support for a reduction in the base tax corresponding to the increase in municipal tax. And it is quite true, as some have said, that it is a wording that has been heard earlier from this platform and from not only me as tax minister, but also other tax ministers. In addition, the draft law then provides for a reduction in the state base tax to compensate for this, i.e. to compensate citizens for the municipal tax increase, so that, overall, the taxes here are kept calm. Specifically, it is proposed to reduce the base tax, as has also been done, by 0,01 percentage points in 2022 and subsequent years of income, and this compensation model, which has also been promoted, is fully in line with what I said earlier, which has also been implemented in the past. Otherwise, I would just like to thank you for a very exciting debate where we came all the way across Bornholm. It is not only Christiansø, I can say, it is Ertholmene, of which Christiansø is a part, who has this special arrangement, and this is related to the fact that when we did the municipal reform, it was decided that the health tax, which was part of the tax that was in the counties, should not apply to Ertholmene. That is the reason for it, and that is what Mr. Rasmus Jarlov free to move to Christiansø, for example. We have free placement rights here too, so you can do that as you like, if you think it might be an experiment. But for the time being, I actually believe that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is fine, is it in Lyngby, or where is it? I remember that we had similar debates based on Lyngby, but there is something of a level down to the tax level of the Ertholmen; I admit that anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111132453	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111132516	The debate is open. Sir. Troels Ravn, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111132522	Thank you for the floor, President. The legislative proposal we are now considering has two main objectives. One is to implement changes derived from Union law, and the other is to simplify and clarify the VAT and excise rules. I would like to start by addressing the most mentioned part of the bill, and it deals with Denmark's obligation to conform to EU law. This means that we need to change the VAT exemption for authorship and artistic activity, which means that the draft law provides for VAT on copyright licences. As has already been said, this part of the draft law has already been very much under discussion, and I understand that debate, because we have a tradition that artists are generally taken into account in the Danish VAT rules. It can be seen, for example. We know that musicians who perform live do not have to pay VAT and that authors can keep a VAT-free presentation, and we are fortunately sticking to the special rules. However, we are still obliged to introduce VAT on copyright licences, and in this respect we in the Social Democratic Party are very positive about the great work that has been done by the government to ensure that implementation does not involve administrative trouble and unnecessary costs for artists. Therefore, the original draft law has been amended so that the VAT liability does not lie with artists and authors, but instead it is added to the licences when other than the artists give it. For example, it will. say management organisations such as Copydan, Gramex or Koda. At the same time, a ministerial working group has been set up to examine the implementation of the draft law in relation to EU law and the guidelines for minimum implementation in order to ensure gentle implementation. The government has therefore done an important and great job to ensure that our VAT rules are in line with EU law on the one hand, but that, at the same time, we ensure that it does not impose unnecessary costs on artists. It is therefore gratifying that artists continue to be subject to favourable special rules in the VAT system. In addition, the draft law also contains two proposals aimed at simplifying VAT and tax rules. Firstly, this applies, for example. for the VAT scheme used. Today, a second-hand trader must, as a general rule, calculate VAT for each product, but with the proposal it will be more possible to calculate VAT for a tax period rather than per year. sales. Secondly, it is proposed that the requirement of safety when imported temporarily from the Faroe Islands or Greenland should be abolished if the recipient of the goods is established in Denmark, in the Faroe Islands or in Greenland. The two proposals simplify the rules and the administrative burden on businesses. Summing up, we are therefore positive that with this bill we ensure necessary EU implementation in as gentle a way as possible, while simplifying rules and facilitating administrative burdens for Danish companies. The draft law also ensures an additional revenue of approx. 215 million kr., and the proposal is intended to finance a new multi-year agreement for the Department of Criminal Welfare's economy from 2022 to 2025 between the Government, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Conservative People's Party. Restoration of the Criminal Services, increase in capacity, retention and recruitment of prisoners, all necessary efforts. Social democracy therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111132924	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111132929	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks it is right that the Danes should now pay more for their television subscriptions?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111132939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111132940	Well, I think that's okay. So, the amount we're talking about is in the order of DKK 15-20. for one package per day. It is a VAT that is coming now because we have to follow an EU judgment. We must, of course, comply with EU law, so that is a necessary change and I do not think that amount is unreasonable. It is entirely in line with tradition that VAT is passed on to consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133015	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133016	Oh, that's not necessary. We could have made legislation which, at the same time, lowered some other things so that the bill would not be passed on to the citizens. So it is not necessary to do so; it is a political decision that has been taken. Then you can say that something comes from the European Union that does, but that is why you can take other measures. I can then understand it in the sense that in a country with the highest tax burden on the world, social democracy has no objection to it being something more expensive for some consumers. Could the rapporteur explain to me who this is going to hit hardest, i.e. whether it is those at the top or those who have the lowest incomes? Who will suffer the most from this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133049	As I said in my first reply, I do not think that a VAT on, and therefore an increase in, the cost of DKK 15-20. a month for a consumer of a television package is unreasonable. In view of the fact that we have to comply with EU law and that this is absolutely necessary, it creates reasonableness. And on top of that, I believe that this is about the fact that we will also have a revenue of 215 million. kr., which means that we can finance a new multi-annual agreement for the Department of Justice's economy, all in all helps to secure a good bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133130	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133133	Thank you. I have two questions. Firstly, I understand from the Socialist rapporteur that this is a necessary implementation of EU law. That is why I would just like to ask whether this proposal has been implemented in the same way or perhaps tightened up in all other countries because otherwise it cannot be necessary and then you would have had some other options. Secondly, I would just like to say that this means that television packages that bring public service are increasing and streaming services that do not provide public service are not increasing. This means that television packages will be put at a disadvantage in competition with streaming services, with the result that public service and payments to artists will be put at a disadvantage. Is that something that the Social Democratic Party supports? And if the Social Democratic Party does not support it, but supports this proposal, how will it compensate or counter it in any other way?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133231	So, the media agreement ensures that if and when public service media are affected by this, they are compensated. That's what the media deal's gonna do. And then it is the case that it has been set up here, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, the ministerial working group that is examining whether the implementation of the legislative proposal in relation to EU law and the guidelines for minimum implementation in order to ensure as careful implementation as possible, and that also ensures that we do not over-implement. I would just like to say that, as the rapporteur has said in relation to streaming services, it is also the case that these streaming services also have an obligation to put VAT on their products and that it is included in the prices of streaming services.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133328	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133330	Well, it's the reverse world. First, the proposal is presented and then a committee is set up to look at how to implement it as easily as possible. But the rapporteur did not answer the questions I asked. Is it the same in other countries? And how will the Social Democratic Party compensate for the fact that there is in fact a shift in the competitive relationship between the television packages on the one hand and the streaming services on the other hand, in other words the television packages that bring public service content, and the streaming services, which do not have anything to do with VAT on Danmarks Radio and TV 2?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133407	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133408	I think it is a matter of due diligence for the government to set up a ministerial working group, which, while the bill is going on in the Danish Parliament, also ensures that there is no over-implementation. And then it is the case that EU law allows the different Member States, precisely in circumstances such as this VAT and VAT obligation on art, public service, etc. have different arrangements. This is possible in EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133444	Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133446	I am continuing a little along the same path as the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten. We are in a situation now where a legislative proposal has been put forward which is critical of almost all cultural life. They are critical for many good reasons, but one of the reasons is that today's cultural life is massively pressured by the corona situation. The industries are bleeding economically. And then we are implementing a bill which, if you believe in the players in cultural life, will be a huge leghold in terms of moving forward well after the corona. Less culture is being produced, fewer films and less music are being produced, etc. etc. How does the rapporteur feel about this when, at the same time, the government says that we must take care of cultural life?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133542	I fully agree with the questioner that culture and cultural life are important for a society and for people and for the formation of citizens. There is no doubt that cultural life is of great importance to us too for the community. That is why we have also invested hundreds of millions of dollars in culture since we as a government have arrived. And since the questioner himself also mentions the corona, which, after all, marts us in different ways, we have also made aid packages for the cultural life of aid packages of about 7 billion. kr. So, of course, cultural life matters to us, and we have also had stakeholders from cultural life with us about the creation of this necessary bill and have had good dialogue along the way. In fact, I believe that we have found a good balance as the proposal stands here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133636	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133637	It's culture, so I guess it doesn't agree with that. But what I want to pursue, what has also been asked about before, is whether it is the same implementation that we see in the other EU countries. The reason I ask that question is, of course, that the question is also whether the government has tried to make it as lax as possible. Are there any other EU countries that have another way of implementing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133709	After the draft legislative proposal and the consultation period, we have had a delay. We have withdrawn the proposal and we have worked intensively and thoroughly with it. As it is here today, I think it appears in a good balance. As I have said, this ministerial working group has been set up to ensure that the implementation of the legislative proposal is not overimplemented, but that the EU's requirements for minimum implementation are complied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133740	Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133742	Thank you. I am a little surprised that on top of a corona crisis with a lot of restrictions on cultural life they do not have the opportunity to earn their money themselves so choose to impose a VAT of 285 million. kr. without in any way compensating. How do you expect it to work out? So, what do you think the future will be for cinemas and other parts of Danish cultural life that are about to find 285 million? kr. a year extra to pay extra to the Danish state?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133815	The asker uses the text "choosing to impose." In other words, we are doing this for two purposes: we need to implement changes derived from EU law, and then we need to simplify and clarify the VAT and excise rules. And I think we can do that. The questioner says we're undermining cultural life. Well, as I also mentioned, a TV subscription can rise by about 15 kroner. a month, and I believe that we should be careful to spread it so rhetorically that we pull the blanket away during Danish cultural life. We have a government here that has strengthened Danish cultural life since its accession for many hundred million kroner, and in the context of the corona crisis we have also made aid packages worth 7 billion. kr. It's about keeping the balance in these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133912	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133914	It's still gone 285 million. kr. a year, to be paid extra in taxes and charges for a cultural life that bleeds. Does the rapporteur think that all of this is passed on to consumers; that consumers are happy to pay the extra money, so they come in that it is just the consumers who are going to pay all the money?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111133932	Compared to the figure of 285 million. I would like to say, as I have said several times, that we are also very, very aware of cultural life, as well as companies and very many people, that we are in a difficult situation. In general, we have strengthened Danish cultural life since our accession in 2019. We have also been inside with massive aid packages in relation to the corona to help cultural life. And I would also like to say that what we are getting for the money here is also part of the picture: we are guaranteeing the financing of a multiannual agreement for criminal services. That's part of it, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134012	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134014	Thank you. I really like it when we're just being honest and talking straight out of the bag, and if I promise that it will be between us in this Chamber, Mr. President. Troels Ravn perhaps did not really come to the realization that the money actually fell in a very dry place, that it was actually a little fortunate that these 285 million. kr. If not from the sky, but from Brussels, then money was given to finance the agreement on criminal justice, so that money is now moved from art and culture to crime prevention and prisons, and that it was really very convenient? Can't we just get that realization from the platform here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134055	As a precaution, I should like to point out that, of course, minutes will be made from the meetings in the Chamber, which are publicly available, so such agreements cannot be made. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134104	Let us be honest and speak out plainly, even if it reaches the public at large. I also think we owe it to politicians to do so. As I began by saying, this bill has two objectives: we need to implement changes derived from EU law, and we need to follow EU law in Denmark when this VAT obligation has been decided upon. And yes, we are in the Social Democratic Party, as I have said openly and honestly, so very pleased that we can help create a financial basis and conclude a multi-annual agreement for criminal justice. It is therefore important that we can recruit prison officers, that we can increase the capacity, that we can do something for those who want to get out of crime, and that, on the contrary, we can also do something effective in relation to those who want to remain in crime. That is what this agreement is all about, and I am very pleased that the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the SF will be involved in that agreement, and I sincerely regret that the Left would not be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134208	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134209	I didn't really expect to hear that recognition, because what we're talking about is a tax increase. We can't avoid that and it's something that will make it more expensive to be a Dane and make it harder to be a cultural life, and then we can discuss how much, but it will, at least when it comes to the 285 million DKK. Sir. Uffe Elbæk bored in whether you had done everything you could to check whether other EU countries were implementing the same way, and in this context you might also suspect that you might have slipped over it a little lightly, because you would have had to spend this 285 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134250	Yes, it is a tax increase, and yes, it makes it more expensive to be a Dane, but it is 15-20 DKK. more a month for a TV subscription. I think we get a lot for the money. And once again, this ministerial working group has been set up to ensure that we do not overimplement. This is for me to see a really sensible bill that is completely balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134314	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134315	Sir. Troels Ravn just mentioned the aid packages for cultural life as an example of something the government had done for cultural life. I think that's a little sloppy about cultural life. When you make legislation with one hand that museums should keep closed, and then with the other hand you give them a replacement package that covers a small part of their losses, not all, but a small part of their losses, Mr. Troels Ravn saw that something good has been done for the museums? In fact, I think it is flabby not to recognise how serious the problems of cultural life are at present in economic terms and to say that the compensation they have received, which covers a very small part of their losses, should actually be a gift to cultural life. Then Mr. Troels Ravn does not well withdraw it and do not use it as an example of something positive that has been done for cultural life?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134405	Nothing could be farther from me than being flabby. I also believe that I have said very frankly that cultural life, like the rest of society, businesses and people who become unemployed, suffers greatly and is marred by this coronapandemic. We should be honest with you. But that is part of the picture that, since its accession, this government has strengthened cultural life in general by a hundred million kroner, and that, therefore, together with the Folketing, even though it has not fully covered it, we have helped to make aid packages for cultural life worth some 7 billion. kr. I think it's as open and honest as it can be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134447	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134449	It is as if it were very clear, I think, the point I made is that when one hand closes cultural life and with the other hand gives them a substitute, the whole thing has not done anything positive for cultural life, has not really penetrated. When you look at the sum of the decisions taken by the government in relation to cultural life, the last two years have been disastrous for cultural life. You could say that this has been necessary. We have also supported most of the restrictions imposed on them because it has been necessary. But to brag about the fact that something good has been done for cultural life, I simply do not think it is decent in relation to how much problems have been caused to cultural life in recent years, when they have paid a huge part of the bill for the Corona restrictions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134529	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134530	I believe that we must weigh up our words and keep a balance when we take the floor here in the Folketing. I haven't boasted, I haven't boasted, I haven't boasted, I haven't boasted, I haven't boasted, I haven't boasted, I haven't boasted, I haven't boasted. Now it is said by the questioner that the government has pursued a disastrous policy in relation to cultural life. That's not true. This government has strengthened our cultural life by a hundred million kroner. And then, in a very, very difficult situation, and we are all fully aware of this, we have helped to make aid packages for about 7 billion. kr. And I think it's an exaggeration to start claiming that this proposal, which will cost a citizen with a TV package 15 kroner. more a month, will pull the blanket away during Danish cultural life.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134613	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134635	Thank you for the floor. This bill consists of several different elements, but now I want to start with the most controversial of them, namely the 285 million tax increase. kr. to Danish cultural life; a cultural life that has been forced to kneel for almost 2 years because of one restriction after another. This has been necessary because of the epidemic we have had and we have tried to compensate with aid packages, but it has not been able to address the challenges that have been created for cultural life. Now culture gets a reward in the form of a bill of 285 million. kr. a year. Actually, I don't think you can be that familiar. In fact, I think it is to treat cultural life really, really, really badly. I would now like to say that we are not at all in favour of raising the tax by 285 million. kr., whether it had been cultural life or anything else, but I think that in this situation it is almost aggravating when we face an industry that has been so closed down and has not had the opportunity to earn its own money. So I just have to say, I can't understand this at all. Basically, we in the Left have a position that we will not contribute to increased taxes and duties. There may be, for example: come some EU regulations where we have to do so, but then we will compensate for the same. And you don't. This just seems like an excuse to charge a lot of money and put it in the treasury and spend it on something else. We are not trying to keep people safe, we are not trying to compensate them; this is just a real tax increase of nearly 300 million. kr. a year. There is no way we can support that. And I cannot understand it either, when the Prime Minister said in his New Year speech: there are again restrictions, especially where the many people meet; unfortunately it hits Danish art, culture, and it a great loss; we need the omthought, reflection, insight and vision, experiences • everything that cultural life creates. It sounds rather thin when, almost as the very first thing, after the Danish Parliament has been opened, we are dealing with a tax increase for cultural life of 285 million. kr. a year. So I have to say that in no way can we support that in the Left. This is a completely wrong way of resolving matters in our opinion. Apart from the fact that there is this increase in taxation in relation to cultural life, there are also some simplifications of VAT duties and rules, and we are, in fact, always in favour of simplifications. So if that part had been for itself, that is, if it were pure simplifications and not tax increases, we would have been able to support it. Then there is a lot about the Kingdom community, which means that the VAT registration of the goods purchased can be simplified there. I think that is actually positive, and I know it has been requested. I have been to the Faroe Islands myself and have heard how it has been demanded there. We would also like to support that part. But in relation to the very large part of the bill here, which is about giving a tax span of 285 million. kr. A year to Danish cultural life, we say no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134932	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Uffe Elbæk, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111134935	First of all, I would just like to thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. I almost agree with word for word. I have just one question, and that is that the government is saying that this is an implementation of EU legislation and I have as a starting point that we should do the same. But could it not have been implemented in another way? If VAT were finally to be added, could it not have been decided that VAT went back to cultural life?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135003-2	Of course you can choose to compensate cultural life, and you have chosen not to. Well, that shows that this is really just a tax increase. It is just to demand more money from some, and now it is this time that cultural life has to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135014	Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135014-2	Yes, because what makes this case completely paradoxical is that the money goes to prison places in Kosovo. Well, try to leave it just three seconds. We put taxes on cultural What is the rapporteur's response to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135040	I think that's very strange too. It is by no means to help Danish cultural life. This is to finance a hole in the box that you have to solve in relation to the criminal services. So it shows what I also think there is the challenge of general tax increases that you just destroy industries. There are people who will certainly not be able to afford to pay for this. You destroy industries just because you can't find funding anywhere else or because you can't do it smarter, and I think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135108	Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135110	It is populism of the worst drawer we hear here today. I'm sorry to tell you. This VAT directive, which dates back to 2006, and the improvements or changes that have been made over time, has been implemented because with payment services, e-commerce and such a thing there has been a great deal of progress! This is what we are trying to address here in this directive in order to avoid VAT fraud between countries, including where rights are concerned. We have just adopted, with the votes of the Left in the Danish Parliament before the summer holidays, a common law stating that copyright, licences, etc. is a European matter. We've done that for the artists. I know, because I was there myself, too, all the way. Then you also have to have a common set of rules on how we manage rights purchases and payments, because it is going on across borders all the time, and therefore you have to look at it from a pan-European perspective. That's why we're having this bill today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135225	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135227	You can get things from the European Union that you have to implement, but you can choose to compensate those that are affected. This is not what you choose to do; it is thus an increase in taxes. I think this is a problem, particularly for Danish cultural life, which has been so much under pressure from the corona crisis. I do not think they deserve a tax increase of 285 million. kr. Then you put 160 million. kr. in the Finance Act for one year for Danish cultural life. This is $285 million. kr. a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135256	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135257	Now it is not exactly such massive investment in cultural life that the Left has exceled in its financial proposals over the years. Maybe it's a bit of a conspiracy to try to create that image. The fact is that the VAT directive does not allow VAT to be levied and then it is returned directly. We must not do so, because it is a distortion of competition. There are judgments for that, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. So it's not such a simple way to do it. But if the Left wants to help make massive investments in cultural life on the Finance Act, then we are always in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135340	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135342	It is very funny that you should always hear the greatest criticism from those who have left you once, and that is always the case. You have to be smart about what the Left thinks and the Left does, and that's fine. Everyone is allowed to have their opinions. We must also have positions on the Left; I have no problem with that. I didn't tell you to bring the money back... crown by crown. I told you to make up for it. There's a big difference, and you can choose to distort my words as crazy as you want, but it doesn't make it mine. So I still think it is a problem to impose an extra tax of 285 million on Danish cultural life. kr. a year. That the Christian Democrats think otherwise must be on your account.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135420	Be careful with direct speech. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135424	Thank you. I agree with the Left's interpretation here. But I would really like to hear the comments of the Left on what the Socialist rapporteur said. For the Socialist rapporteur, it was in this way that this is about the fact that television packages are becoming a little more expensive. I mean, it's the consumer who's going to pay it. Is that how the Left sees it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135450	No. General economic theory says that when you raise the tax or tax on something, then part of the increase will be imposed on users so that consumers will experience a higher price. But the rest of it is paid by those who produce it. So it will be a shared cost between the producers • those who do the artistic business and the consumers. So they're both gonna pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135512	Thank you for that and we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111135535	Today we are dealing with a proposal arising from an agreement on criminal justice, that is to say our prisons, where I think we have had a good run, which is about creating as many prison places as possible. There are a great many missing places and ensuring that more prison officers are trained and that foreign criminals who commit crime in Denmark are not serving here, but preferably in the home country, and otherwise in a new prison in Kosovo, which we are helping to finance. In this agreement, one of the things that we are most happy about in the Danish People's Party was that in future we will train prison officers with student salary instead of at SU. We hope that, together with getting more educational places around Denmark, it ensures that there are more people who want to apply as a prisoner, also someone who may have come up a little in age and can be more mature and have tried different things. It may be good to get more people into that education. So basically there are a lot of good things in that agreement. It also costs some money, and one consequence of that is that today we are dealing with a proposal that the government thought was important to help finance this agreement. As several speakers have said, this is certainly a sluggish proposal, understood in the sense that it costs some money for some Danes. At the same time, we must also say that it is necessary to finance the things you do at Christiansborg. It's a celebrity to all of us, I think, who's been in here for some time, that things cost money. Then it is true, as some people also point out, that this proposal is also helping to correct some of the problems that have been caused by VAT fraud in some of these areas here. So basically there is good and bad in it, and the Danish People's Party has actually taken it that when the government comes and says that it is something that will be implemented no matter what, because it is a result of our EU membership in relation to EU judgments and agreements in various areas, that is probably the way it is. And then our task is to ensure that we do not overimplement, so that we do not start to go much further and harder towards the Danes than we do in other countries. We have a lot of vigilance on this, and we will have it in future discussions that will be around this. As a result of the agreement, a committee was set up to look at the consequences of this. And there we have listened to that, among other things. Danish Occupation is pleased that this has happened and will pay close attention to what is going to happen in connection with it. When we look at it that way, it is also important for the Danish People's Party that it will not be the case that a lot of administrative burdens come out of it. We will also be vigilant about this. And then we also think it is important that, if we can do so in various areas, we can compensate if the area is affected by the cultural life that has been mentioned here today, it is very good if we can do so and ensure that cultural life gets out of all the corona problems that they have experienced. And we must probably say there, as far as we are concerned, that we do not have there either, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov mentioned in a brief speech here, so cheerful for everything the government has done in relation to cultural life and the compensation arrangements that have been there. It is very, very late that we have got up to speed in relation to it. Overall, when we look at the proposal that is on the table here, we think that it is clearly better than the first draft law for L 106, as it is called, that was on the table. Some progress has been made and there will be even more progress in the committee procedure and in the committee which has been set up and which will have to look into it. Basically, what you can probably hear is not because we've been cheerful about this. We basically think that what is good is that we have reached a good agreement on criminal justice and our prisons. Because they needed it. It has lasted long enough, and hopefully now there will be a light ahead for all our hard-working prison officers who have been on the verge of looking elsewhere because things have simply been impossible and heavy to dance with in their daily lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140027	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140030	In fact, I thought that the Danish People's Party would wholeheartedly support it, from artists to criminals in Kosovo. It would be like a good slogan to go to the polls. However, I understand that the Danish People's Party is actually concerned about some of the effects it can have and that it will therefore be very thorough into the committee procedure, and I am, of course, very pleased with that. But then I would like to hear: what has been committed to in the settlement of criminal justice? Have you committed yourself to an amount? Or have we committed ourselves to adopting something that has that heading? Because it's a little important. For it is quite clear that there can be a different implementation of EU legislation than the one proposed by the government and that it can also be approved in the European Union. It's obvious. But the problem is, of course, that it will probably generate less revenue and that is why I am just trying to clarify whether Mr. Peter Skaarup simply stands up on the platform and is filled with old newspapers and soft bread and says something that has nothing on it because one has actually committed oneself to financing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140136	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140137	Well, it doesn't look like me to be filled with, it was old newspapers and soft bread. No, we're going into this completely professionally and factually and by the book. But it goes without saying that when a government comes and says that you deliver so much yourself and the government has actually delivered quite a lot even from different reserves and various other sources of funding; it is, of course, an expensive agreement that has been made to ensure that our prison officers retain courage and that we get more people into the training and of course the expensive agreement has to be financed. That's gotta be it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140213	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140215	If I understand the answer correctly, it is, sir. Peter Skaarup says that we have not committed ourselves to the financing, in the sense that we have not committed ourselves to the funding coming from this proposal, but that the conciliation we have concluded must of course be financed. And that certainly means that Mr. Peter Skaarup confirms that this proposal will be shaved in natural size and will provide less funding, in exchange for funding in other areas to cover the gap that arises in the settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140250	It is certainly not possible to predict the future, but we stand by the agreement that is in place, and it says that there will be funding corresponding to the amount that is now in place, and then we will have to look at the time when it will develop. If the committee that has been set up says that it is completely crazy that everything is wrong and that you have to do it in a different way, then of course we have a completely new situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140311	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140314	Does the DF stand now and say that when the country with the highest tax burden in the world wants to finance some prisons in Kosovo, where we have to pay for relatives to travel back and forth, and that they can come back once they have finished serving, that the only way to finance it is to raise taxes so that people who have TV subscriptions now have to pay more for their TV subscriptions? I really cannot believe that is what the rapporteur is saying up there, so it is modest to the Danes out there: yes, we have to have some prisons over in Kosovo, so you have to pay it by means of higher television subscriptions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140354	I don't really know what to say to Mr. Knox. Lars Boje Mathisen. Is New Citizens here in Parliament saying that it is a bad idea for foreign criminals to serve in their country of origin or in a country other than Denmark? It would surprise me a lot, but if that's the way it is, then that's the way it is. So, our approach to this and the agreement that lies is, of course, that it is a huge advantage for Danish society that we get criminal foreigners out of the country, so that they do not fill up in Danish prisons where we have a huge overcrowding. I think so, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen knows. We have a massive overcrowding, we need prison officers, we need prison places. So it is a very good idea to ensure that we have them sent home, so that the network and criminal affiliation they may have cannot be cared for further in Denmark because you no longer serve in Denmark. So I think this agreement is totally logical on this point, and I would say that we in the Danish People's Party have been fighting for it for many years and that we are delighted that this agreement has succeeded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140456	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140457	Yes, we are overcrowded in prisons because parties like the Danish People's Party have not set their feet and criminal foreigners are not shown consistently after the first sentence. Yes, then you get overcrowded in the Danish prisons, and it makes absolutely no sense that they should be sent to Kosovo, where they then have a right to return to Denmark and you should remember that they have here plus that we have to pay for their relatives to fly back and forth and visit them. But the rapporteur did not answer whether the Danish People's Party believes that the way to find the money to finance what you want is only by means of the Danes having to pay more for their TV subscriptions. Can the money really not be found anywhere else in this massive public sector that we have in the country with the world's highest tax burden, and it is the Danes who have to pay more for their TV subscriptions to fund DF's wishes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140536	I don't really know what kind of world sir. Lars Boje Mathisen is in, but it is certainly not the real world. For the real world should be totally logical on this point too, for New Citizens, namely that when you send people, foreign criminals, to serve in Kosovo, preferably in the country of origin, but otherwise in Kosovo you make an office down there in connection with the prison after which people are sent home from there. Then, of course, they have no right to come to Denmark. They have a right to be sent home to their homeland. So that must be the case, and that is what is in the agreement. I think so, too, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen knows.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140615	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140617	Then I'll just take it back to the cultural area. Because I'm actually curious. If you haven't been in these negotiations and don't know how they've been going on, then you're at least not sure what the argument was like. But you want to set up a system in the area of criminal justice, and it costs some money. Then you find some money in different boxes. Among other things: has it been found that you can get about 285 million. kr., if you implement this EU legislation. Is that the order in which it has worked? Or can the rapporteur tell me how this has been done in this debate?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140700	Yes, I can fully confirm that, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk says here. Of course, you can choose to resign and say that no, you don't want to mess with that, you have no responsibility for it, and that you will have nothing to do with it, or you can say: OK, we actually have a job, we have a problem to solve, namely that we desperately lack prison officers in our prisons, that we desperately lack prison places, that we desperately lack, that foreigners, who are taking up a very large part of this prison capacity today, are being sent home or to another country for serving. We're desperately short of that. Do we have to do this? Yeah, we are. That's what we've thought you should do. This is simply necessary in order for our legal society to function. Do we have to finance some places because it's very expensive to get these things done? That is, for example, the case. Expensive with a new gang prison. Yes, it has to, and the government has then delivered a great deal of money, but has also provided some areas where it hurts more for some of us who have been included in the agreement. Well, it's SF, Conservative and Danish People's Party. So, yes, that's the order.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140806	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140808	Yeah, 'cause that's pretty interesting. First of all, I can conclude that the government and the parties involved in this scheme pay more attention to criminal justice than the Danish artists, for example, if we are to formulate it a little harshly. Secondly, what I hear is that the agreement wants to set up this working group, which will have to find a way of following it, in other words, how it will be implemented, and that means that a decision has been taken before you really know how it works. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140845	No, this proposal has not yet been adopted. Now we have a discussion in the Danish Parliament, and there we are discussing back and forth how it can be done, and there will be this committee to find out how it is going to be done, and we cannot put it in such a way that prisons or prison officers are given higher weight than artists. Some people might feel that way, but that's not what this is about. Because we should, of course, and it is also possible to do so, and something has also happened in the Finance Act, fortunately sending some money towards the cultural life, which is one of the breathing holes we have as Danes, especially in a coronatid, where everything has been closed. And that's where I think we can agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140923	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140924	Thank you. I would have asked the question that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen asked, but it has been asked, so there is no reason for me to ask. But I understood it that way, sir. Peter Skaarup, that one would like to look at compensating cultural life for these 285 million. kr., which is now subject to VAT. But how can this be done? Because the money's been used in the criminal justice agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111140951	I mean, it doesn't take much time. It's probably more or less started before the government has to call for negotiations on the media. This is also a little about the media, you might say. There it will be obvious that at a time when we have great challenges with our cultural life and our media, the government will ensure that some of the things that, as I said, are breath holes in Denmark can be funded. I really think that we agree on this far along the way. I actually think the Folketing agrees on that. So it is not the case that I propose that one should be compensated for one of these. In fact, it may be that more money will come out in the form of the various agreements that lie in it. The rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party said that more money had already been spent on the Finance Act. That is what is also needed because of corona. However, for the Danish People's Party, this is all about ensuring that our prison system can function and that we lift the responsibility we have towards our employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141055	Thank you. Another one just came on the list. It was Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141102	That's because I just got to wonder, sir. Peter Skaarup said that the Danish People's Party would like the media to compensate for some of the gaps in the breath, that is to say, in relation to this bill which imposes on it EU law we are talking about. But what is it that Mr. Peter Skaarup wants there? Is this a compensation in relation to the introduction of an additional turnover tax on rights, on copyright? Is this something we can expect the Danish People's Party to be involved in? Because it certainly has quite far-reaching prospects if it becomes part of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141155	No, well, one of the things we have proposed for the media negotiations is that these typically foreign television producers and streaming services, for example. Netflix, pays a higher share of the cost of having our cultural life and our media run. And I actually believe that there can be broad support for that. It is also relevant to look at the so-called public service pool, which could perhaps receive some money along that path, i.e. by going a little harder to some of those who earn oceans of money worldwide, because they can operate with these very small margins, and who also help to outperform Danish media. We can see that newspapers and media in Denmark are quite poor because Netflix, Facebook and Google and all the big companies that get a lot of ads earn money.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141301	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141303	We are definitely on more media support, to that extent. I think you just have to be aware of an answer from the Treasury, by the way. Dennis Flydtkjær from Dansk Folkeparti, who asked the question about the new international rules in relation to turnover tax on streaming services. I think we're gonna deal with that. It is not quite as simple as you would like to make it. But what is interesting is that this is a matter of following EU law and saying that there must be VAT on copyright, that is to say licences and that has nothing to do with media support and something like that. Is that what needs to be compensated in a media agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141344	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141346	It probably leads too far to say what the crown to the crown is financing what. However, it comes back to a debate we had had earlier at first reading, some of which said that we could not take back the funds, and that is what I am saying: but perhaps this could be done with some other means, namely by taking some of the funds that some of these great tech giants earn with great, fine results in their accounts; perhaps it might be appropriate to put a little back on what is being taken out of Danish society. And that is really what I am advocating here, but it is more of a media policy talk than a real talk about this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141425	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141452	Thank you for that, President. As you can see, this is not the usual tax rapporteur for the SF, but as I am a cultural rapporteur, there is also a certain amount of relevance in this. Bill L 106 is one of the classic collective proposals put forward by the government. However, some of what has been very much debated is the part of the proposal which deals with VAT on the sale of licences by artists. For us, it is clear that we must comply with EU law and ensure that the legislation is consistent with it, so that we do not face infringement cases. But I would also like to be honest and say that this is not something that was born in the backyard of the SF. This is not something we in the SF are so excited about. In Denmark we have a great cultural life with oceans of talented artists and unique cultural institutions. The art contributes to the democratic conversation and to seeing things from new perspectives. We must recognise cultural life as a cornerstone of our society and we must take care of our cultural life. They are already hard pressed because of some very difficult years of corona closure. That is why, after all, we are also pleased that the draft law has been amended and that the artists' VAT conditions are not directly affected, but that it is only in the subsequent stages. It is also positive that, before adopting the legislative proposal, a working group should explain that implementation follows the guidelines for minimum implementation so as to avoid over-implementation. We assume, of course, that the results of the working group will be included in the further work of the committee. And in further work on the implementation of the proposal, we in the SF believe that it would be appropriate also to involve industry representatives, so that we ensure proper implementation. We will follow this work closely in the SF. It is clear that the price increase particularly affects TV subscriptions and therefore it will primarily be consumers who are directly affected. As a result, viewers are more likely to resort to foreign streaming services, which only contribute to a limited extent with Danish television content. So we also face that challenge with our eyes open. In SF, we are very concerned about promoting our good original Danish public service content, and this must not come under pressure. Therefore, in the forthcoming discussions on a new media reconciliation, I will have the intention to strengthen Danish content to such an extent that the implementation of this proposal will not weaken the content of the executive's rights. As far as the other parts of the bill are concerned, we in the SF welcome those changes. These are mainly simplifications and legislative specifications. With these comments, we look forward to following up the work of the next committee. There's something to take care of. And in the SF we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141801	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141805	I have great respect for the dilemma that SF is facing, and I can also hear that SF says that this is not something that has grown in SF's backyard, but yet you are in a settlement. Could the rapporteur not try to explain to me and to us why it has nevertheless been accepted that these 288 million have been taken and found? kr. from the cultural area and then use them for prison places in Kosovo? In other words, is it because it is believed that this task is so much more important than protecting an already pressured cultural life?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141845	Well, that's the simplified, the extremely simplified way of looking at exactly this movement. In fact, we have no tradition in Denmark that there are special VAT-coated areas that we take from and put into some other areas. So, in reality, we see it as something that we have to comply with, in accordance with EU law, and that is why it has been a funding that we have accepted in this way. We don't think it's very clever, because we're worried about the mechanisms they have. After all, when we have fought so much for the agreement that has been made, for criminal justice, it is because that agreement has a great many other good elements than just a prison in Kosovo. I agree that this is what has been focused on and talked about, but it is actually very important for us that we have reached a milestone in removing the debt prison that criminals are in. For example: In other words, the removal of these costs is of enormous importance in order to make progress in society and to leave its criminal course. There have been many other things; there are many other things in relation to psychotherapy, children as relatives, supervision etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141953	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111141954	I respect the rapporteur's argument as to why they are included in the agreement. I have sincere respect for that, but it still seems paradoxical to me that it is said that there is an EU legislation that we must, of course, have implemented, and then in my optics such a little hoofsa solution is made for what is found to be beautifying by creating a working group to ensure that it is not overimplemented. Why do we not go the opposite way, finding out that there is EU legislation that we have to live up to, and then finding out how it can be done as lightly as possible and then, of course, implementing it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142030	I think that some of the questions may also be relevant to refer to the minister who has been sitting there in the course of the negotiations. In fact, however, I think it is a sign that we have listened to the criticism that has been made when we have both rolled back part of the first legislative proposal, but in fact also set up a working group to ensure that we do not overimplement it. So it is actually also about us listening after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142056	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142059	The SF rapporteur uses the wording that this proposal is not a proposal that has grown in the SF's garden, and I understand that, but it is SF that adds the crucial votes to it. If the SF did not vote for it, it would not have been implemented. So you could have told the government: we are in on everything else, and we are also in on finding the money, but they have to be found somewhere other than in art and culture. You had that opportunity, didn't you? Why didn't the SF do that? Because, you know, the government didn't have an alternative. Radicals said so, and the Enhedslisten said so, but the SF sat back and accepted it, and otherwise the government had not had a majority. The second question I have is whether what the SF's rapporteur says should be understood in such a way that it is not considered to be finished, but that it is still possible to change it in the process until the third reading here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142206	I thought that I explained just now why it was so important that we were part of this criminal justice settlement: because we have really made a significant boost and have also ensured that there will be better opportunities, both for the employees, for the inmates and also for the future to have a better life and to leave your criminal career. In fact, we think that is essential. And the fact that the balance has been that way also depends on the fact that we have actually looked at the fact that there has been a new judgment in EU law, and we have to comply with that. That's why we've recognised this mechanism. When I say from up here, as I do, in relation to this work group, it is clear that when we have a working group and we have not seen the results yet, we will have to listen to this working group, otherwise it will be completely indifferent. So it is clear that if there is any information in relation to over-implementation, we will certainly look at it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142302	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142304	But I still don't understand why the SF is adding the crucial votes to it. I understand that it is said that what is going to be adopted anyway and that, with most of it, we accept something that has not grown in our gardens. But you add the crucial votes to it. I mean, when artists get their terms down now, it's because of SF's voices, unless it's changed, and that's what's so weird. Because the government did not have another place to go to get a majority for its criminal welfare proposal, and then another funding would have been found, with which I am sure SF could also have agreed. And then I just want to ask at the end whether the Ministry of Culture is represented in the group that is going to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142343	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142344	That's a good question. I have to come back there because I haven't actually checked that out. That is also why I stress in my speech that I actually believe that the industry should also be consulted in this working group, because it is extremely important to get real life into it. We can frame it in every possible way, and I fully hear the frustrations of Enhedslisten in relation to this, and now we ended up standing there alone. This is not just about the SF adding the crucial votes to it; it is actually about the fact that we lifted a lot of important things, and I think we know that in the Enhedslisten: that we have really made some improvements in this area of criminal justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142420	Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142422	Thanks for the speech. I had no doubt that I could ask questions when the rapporteur said that the rapporteur is not the normal rapporteur in this area, but gave the speech for someone else. But now I am going to go along with it because I think the rapporteur very well managed to answer the questions, so I'm betting that's okay. To my question: I am in favour of the government trying to frame it, so to speak, as if only television subscribers would have to pay, but that will never be the case. It's gonna be paid by more people. However, the rapporteur believes that the payment of 285 million will have an impact on the economy of cultural life. kr. extra each year?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142505	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142507	Thank you. It is all very well for Mrs Louise Schack Elholm to ask questions. I have to answer to the best of my ability. We see in the SF that it does not only concern consumers. We know that this is also important for artists and producers and, in fact, also for those who offer television packages. We also know that there may also be some movement in relation to the public service, the media image, etc. We stand by that. We are not interested in closing our eyes to this, although we also think it is a bad proposal and wish it were not. However, we actually recognise the premise that it is a judgment of the European Union that makes it necessary for us to implement it. But it also means that we have an eye on how we can make things right. We will soon have to look at the media settlement, and there we can try to see how we can achieve a better balance and, in fact, also ensure that what is of Danish-produced content and the Danish public service is still relevant and accessible to the ordinary Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142614	Louise Schack Elholm, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142616	Well, 285 million. kr. That's a lot of money. How much money does the rapporteur intend to set aside this media agreement to curb this? If you had to accept this increase in taxes, and I am also in favour of accepting EU judgments and complying with them, but I just think that you should compensate the area afterwards so that it does not just become more expensive, and so that you do not just destroy their economy in that area, it would not have been more natural to spend the money in connection with the media settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142643	There have been many people who have talked about why the money does not go back to art, and there are many opinions on that. But once again, as I said at the beginning, we do not have a tradition that VAT in certain areas will then be used in those areas again. What is important is that in the forthcoming media talks we are going into, we are looking at a great many mechanisms, both in relation to whether there is equality between the television package providers and the streaming services, and there it might be interesting to hear whether the Left might also be willing to say that the streaming services should also make a contribution into the community fund here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142724	Sir. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142725	In fact, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk's speech leaves me with a lot of questions. On 8 October last year, the government agreed to an OECD agreement that a standstill or a rollback on turnover taxes, for example, should be made. streaming services. So that door is like closed to us, so we have to find other ways of doing it, and I hope we will have good discussions on that in the media negotiations. But what offends me a little bit, and I also think that it is a really bad idea with Kosovo prisons and all that; it is not our cup of tea, and that is why we are not part of the settlement on the criminal justice service. After all, if you go back and look at what this bill is about, and not what the money is being spent on, then it is about the EU trying to do away with the VAT fraud that is going on between European countries at European level, because licences and copyright are something that is being negotiated across national borders; sport rights are being negotiated in Switzerland. Can it be that it's not SF's cup of tea?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142843	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142844	Both-and. It is clear that we also have to deal with the world that is outside our own borders, and that is really why we recognise this part, which is about the implementation after a European judgment. So in this way we recognise it and it is important that we take it into account. But what is unfortunate is the way it is being implemented and that it is being done without taking a position on how to secure a media landscape that, like also, requires that we do not allow international streaming services to get an even greater bite of our content and, in fact, of our market. That's the part that's challenged. But that is also a challenge, of course, because the model that has been built up today for artists and so on is a model of rights, in which money is also earned between the periods of production. So we have to take that too, and then we have to look at whether there are other ways we can help a really hard hit cultural life, because, as I also said in my speech, they are just really, really pressed at this time on top of the corona.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142956	Thank you. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111142957	We agree that cultural life is under pressure, but it is due to some other things and not to this. And now, before we talk about taking money from cultural life, we must remember that this is an additional turnover tax, which is not really a sales tax. That is an essential difference. When I look back a little in the directive proceedings that have taken place in the European Parliament, I can see that the SF is, if any, supporting the measures that apply here to tax havens, VAT fraud, you name it and even make it very progressive. Very much respect for Mrs Margrete Auken and co. for that. Then why isn't it SF's cup of tea?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111143042	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111143044	I really think that is what I am saying is the prime reason why we say yes to it. I have also been asked why we are adding the crucial votes to this agreement, and we are doing so, both because the agreement on criminal justice is really good, but also because we recognise that this is part of the agreement we have with the European Union and that it is, in fact, also a consequence of a judgment in EU law. As far as its adverse effects are concerned, this is not the first time that this has happened in this area. We are also looking at how local associations can have challenges in the field of sport, and that is why we must also look at how we can ensure that good models are created.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111143123	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111143128	The next rapporteur, who is ready, comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Kathrine on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111143145	Thank you. We need to get to work on L 106, and this is a proposal which has been discussed long and thoroughly in the hinterland too, in that various organisations have given some very interesting consultation answers and that there have been many discussions in different organisations of interest. It acts among other things. on VAT on artistic rights, which is the main part of what we are discussing here, and which, quite rightly and with full justification, has also been ■ what should I say? When we look at the essence of the bill, we think it is extremely positive that the bill has been amended so that artists no longer have to register VAT. This would not only be difficult for artists, but also for management organisations: that would mean a great deal of administration. I can also greet from the very large crowd of artists I know and say that they are extremely happy to avoid the trouble we experience sitting with, and when we look at what else we sit and are dragged into the tax area, for example. the fact that a great many SMEs are unable to report VAT correctly, I think it is the right decision to transfer it to management organisations and not leave it with the arts. It is unfortunate and weird that we may not have excluded heirs as well, we think. Of course, we can see that there are some problems with this transfer of rights to people other than the original artists, and we do not know whether that is possible, but I do think that the working group to be set up could try to look specifically at this particular proposal on heirs. I think that the previous rapporteurs have not been so specific and detailed about what the working group might be looking at, and that they have actually merely shifted all responsibility to this working group, which we hope will then be able to solve the whole problem, which of course it cannot, because we end up exactly where this draft law lays down some revenue. So whatever it is, I'm thinking that the working group could look at this relationship around heirs as a separate problem. Administrative burdens will remain largely unchanged for management organisations if they also ensure that heirs of rights are exempted from VAT obligations. It is also positive that, as I said, a ministerial working group should be set up to look at the minimum level, and it is very good that the Treasury is sitting at the end of the table, but it could also be awesome if the Ministry of Culture was invited, they are also sitting with these problems on a daily basis and might also need to learn more about it. It remains to be seen that the adoption of the legislative proposal in its present form will result in the disappearance of more than 200 million. kr. Just from the TV market alone, and that's a lot of money for an already pressured market. This can have major consequences for the public service, Danish content and ultimately the artists, and not least also for those TV subscribers who receive an increased bill of DKK 15-20, as reported by the Treasury. That means sitting out there thinking and wondering why your subscription increases by DKK 15-20, and then you have to know that that money, among other things. is going to fund prison places in Kosovo. Because that is where the Hurd and the problems for us in the Radical Left lie. After all, we are fully in favour of a European judgment being applied at all times. If anyone is in the class, when it comes to targeting the European Union, then it is the Radical Left. And you're almost gonna have to do it all the time. Automatically just say, yes, we'll agree to this one. But just because there's this bizarre cross over to an agreement that we're not even in here, it's important to say here we don't actually think we can support this way of implementing this verdict. Since implementation can take place in a great many different ways, as the rapporteur of the Left also mentioned, we could imagine that, as in all sorts of other contexts, where VAT starts to be clawed in from certain industries, the money is returned to the same industry, so that there is no unnecessary loss of one cause or another. That is why we all saw that this money is brought back to the vulnerable dynamics of the artistic economic system. And that's why I'm counting on you and it's also a little depends on how it ends up in committee that we end up voting against this proposal. Good! These are the words of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111143625	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Radicals. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111143645	Thank you. The proposal before us contains a few elements which we can support. And then there is the crucial thing: VAT on artistic rights, and we certainly cannot support that. Basically, the bill will undermine Danish public service for the benefit of large multinational streaming services and make Danish content production more difficult. It is against what the government claims they want, and it is also against the understanding paper, which is the basis for the government's existence and which aims to strengthen Danish public service. The last one was a quote. At the heart of this is the television packages, which, on the one hand, brings Danish public service content to consumers and, on the other hand, pay rights money to artists. When the television packages are subject to VAT of 25%, two things can happen. Either they become more expensive and will be less competitive with the streaming services, and fewer television packages will be sold, or they will fail to pay the VAT themselves, and then they will have to find the amount elsewhere. Whether they choose one combination or another, the result is the same: less money to buy Danish content production and less money for artists. Conversely, subscription prices for international streaming services without Danish public service content will not be affected by the proposal. In other areas too, the proposal will damage Danish cultural production. Let us, for example: Take a author • it could also be a songwriter, a composer or an illustrator • and the tax minister says that the individual author does not become liable for VAT and does not impose additional administrative burdens on the individual but in section 13 of the bill. No. 1 7, it says: the exemption does not, however, include the transfer of rights. Quote out. However, the transfer of copyright is at the heart of, for example. authorship. And we're not talking about change. Phased in, the proposal will provide an expected additional income to the state in the vicinity of a quarter billion kroner a year, which therefore cannot in one way or another go to Danish content. Of course, you can change that if you want to, because if you really believe that this new regime is an indispensable requirement on the part of the European Union and even perhaps a positive demand on the part of the European Union, you could simply take the proceeds back to Danish content production, but you do not. Instead, the money is being used to finance a settlement in the Department of Criminal Services. That is why it is a conscious choice that has been made. It is not a choice that the European Union has made, it is not a choice that fate has made, it is exactly a choice that politicians in this Parliament have made if they end up voting in favour of this proposal. The proposal has, of course, been imposed on us by an EU judgment, although not an EU judgment against Denmark, but against Romania. So the rules are set in stone? You can't exactly say that. On the one hand, the rules are interpreted differently in different countries and with different models, and on the other hand, the Minister himself did not have a clear idea of what EU law really means. For example: there is a significant difference between the proposal at the beginning of December and the proposal we are debating today. These changes have been made by the Ministry of Taxation, as they write, and I quote further consideration. On further consideration, however, without specifying what these considerations are. Against this background and in view of the major negative consequences this proposal has for Danish content production and for artists' living conditions, the Enhedslisten will call for this proposal to be dealt with in an extremely thorough manner, including the holding of a hearing in which all interested parties may be given the opportunity to express their views. And in this discussion, a key question will be whether the version we are dealing with today is the necessary minimum implementation of the EU's demands, or whether the government can find a model that is less damaging to Danish cultural life through further consideration and help from a majority of the Danish Parliament's parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144110	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is for Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Sorry, that's what appeared on the screen. Søren Søndergaard It is a pity I would have liked to have answered Jens Rohde's question). Laughter But there is actually a brief comment to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144142	Thank you for an excellent speech which we on the Left can endorse one hundred percent. Does the Enhedslisten have any concrete proposals on what could have been done to compensate those who are now affected by this extra VAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144200	I don't know if sir. Jan E. Jørgensen remembers that we had a meeting of the Committee on European Affairs. Jan E. Jørgensen was there when it suddenly emerged in a discussion with the Minister for Finance that the possibility of making exceptions in this area was actually being discussed in the EU. It is part of the VAT law and there is a positive list, and there you could actually go in and change it. Then, like the little boy in the emperor's new clothes, I asked: uh, since the government is so opposed to it, and now that the government feels so forced by the EU to do this, I suppose it has been raised in those discussions? And what was the answer? No, you didn't. So here at home, the government is saying that we are forced by the European Union; and down in the European Union, you keep your mouth shut and don't raise it. So that would have been one option. Another option would have been to take the proceeds and throw it in to the artists in one way or another, perhaps as art support, anything, because we have to be aware that this proposal is not primarily about VAT on the television packages. It's all the derived effects that less money for the artists is the big problem in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144309	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144311	I have not been to that meeting; I would have remembered that, because this is a scandal. It shows that the government says one when you talk to someone and says another when you talk to somebody else. It was also an issue that came earlier from Uffe Elbæk, namely whether we had done everything possible to ensure that there was no way around the EU requirement to charge these 285 million. kr. Then it has apparently emerged at a meeting which one might have liked more attention to be paid to the general issue here in the Committee on European Affairs, too, that there is indeed an opportunity. I think we should pursue this and I would suggest that we call for a conciliation together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144349	I can guarantee that I also think it is a scandal. I even thought it was so much a scandal that I asked written questions, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen can go to study. And that's interesting because everyone says: we're not going to hit the artists; it's not the artists we're looking for. It is not cultural production, it is not a Danish public service content. We must realise that this benefits international streaming services, not even the Danish industry. It is the Danish public service that suffers. That's what they say, but you really don't do anything about it, and that goes for all the parties that made this deal. That is why I am very anxious to see how many of the parties are actually working in committee negotiations to reduce the very negative consequences of this. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144434	Now there is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144446	I have to make a brief comment when you stand there and yell: scandal! So, I think it would be a scandal if the Enhedslisten were not to join the fight against VAT fraud internationally in the European Union. That would be the real scandal. For whom would it take? Yes, that would be so bad for the artists, because then we have no money to support artists or anything else. That is the crux of the matter. Then we can discuss all that with Kosovo and all that sort of stuff. I think it's hopeless too. But is it not Enhedslisten's policy that we must combat VAT fraud internationally? That was point 1. Paragraph 2: Søren Søndergaard acknowledges that there is in fact a positive list which means that for example. After all, the artists, when they first sell their rights, actually pay 5%. VAT? So there's the third question: Does Enhedslisten want us to generally • because that's the way we can do it in another implementation • introduce differentiated VAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144550	Of course, we must combat VAT fraud. It goes without saying. However, as the questioner says a second later, there is in fact a positive list for the EU VAT directive which allows for a differentiated VAT. That was the discussion. And it was a model you could have used. But I will not go into that discussion at all. At least not in this context, because what is the starting point is the artists and the public service content that is being hit, and there we had an opportunity to compensate. We had the opportunity to take that amount • 250 million. kr., approx. a quarter billion a year and put into art in one way or another. We had that opportunity, but the government didn't choose it. The government chose to use it in relation to a settlement on criminal justice, where the starting point was that the prerequisite for being involved in a settlement on criminal justice was that one was willing to attack the artists. This is not particularly appropriate in the view of Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144649	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144651	No, not if you take the premise that it is about attacking the artists. I don't think the government does. Anyway, I have to point out who is the support party to this government. It's the Enhedslisten. And it's fun to hear both the Radical Left and the Enhedslist all the time telling about how terrible a government we have, because that's your choice. Now print that choice, if it's so horrible, so we can have it tested. That would be liberating, though. When it comes to streaming services and TV packages, sir. Søren Søndergaard, what is Enhedslisten's argument that TV packages should not be equated with streaming services and vice versa when it comes to payment of VAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144732	So, first of all, in relation to the discharge of elections, it is like the flattest polemic from Facebook that you can even find that every time you have a disagreement with a government, which of course is based on an overall assessment, also about what is the alternative, then you get the answer: you can just print elections. We allow ourselves the right to disagree with the government without wanting to issue elections. We do that in this area, and we do that in other areas. And then I can inform Mr. Jens Rohde says that then there are also points where we do not allow ourselves the right to disagree with the government without it leading to an election. Secondly, I would just like to say that the difference is that international streaming services do not contribute to Danish cultural content; that is what public service does. After all, television packages pay money to artists; international streaming services do not. That's all the difference, and it's fundamental to understanding how serious this attack is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144824	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There will then be no further brief comments to the rapporteur, and the speaker's desk has thus been thoroughly cleaned. We are ready for the next rapporteur, who comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144841	Thank you. Well, here we are again, tax hell on earth, also known as Denmark anno 2022. Perhaps I had a hope that we had peaked the limit of foolishness in 2021, when suddenly it was thought that there would be a charge on gliders. You could do that from in here, why not? No, now people think that people who watch TV should pay more. So if you have a TV subscription and you're a citizen of the country with the world's highest tax burden, then you're very likely to have to pay something more for that TV subscription. And why do people have to do that? Yes, they have to, because in here they had to finance a prison in Kosovo, to which some foreigners are sent down to serve, and at the same time they have to pay air tickets for people going down to visit them, and where those who are serving there have a right to return to Denmark. I understand if people out there watching think: what is really going on in there? What's really going on in there? And while they're doing that, they can cancel their TV subscription because they can't afford to pay because it's going to rise. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111144958	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathiesen, and it's from mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145006	Thank you for your speech, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. What I'd like to ask, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen says that New Citizens are apparently very critical of sending foreign criminals to Kosovo to serve so that they do not fill up in Danish prisons. It's the case of the New Citizen. But I'd like to get confirmation from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, that in the agreement that has been reached there are a number of other things that New Citizens were very happy to come along by the way. There's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... the fact that we are setting up the punishment for violence against prison officers while in prison. After all, there is a student's salary instead of su when you are training, and there are a number of new training places where we train prison officers in Jutland and Lolland-Falster as well. There are many more prison officers at all, and more officers are available. There's a look at the payroll that's being looked at whether you can pay off time off earlier, and there's a number of other good things in this deal, isn't there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145114	I can certainly confirm that in New Citizens we believe that foreigners should be expelled consistently and after the first sentence, and then they should be sent home once they have been expelled. That's not what you do here. You send them out, and then you take them back. So that's not what this is about. Then I am surprised that when we look at the massive public sector that we have, the massive glutton that is going on in the public sector, and then you want to finance an action that you want, the only way to find funding is to demand more taxes from the public and make it even more expensive to be a Dane. It is therefore a poor inventiveness, no matter what it is that you want to achieve. But unlike so many parties, we simply say: yes, we have problems with congestion in Danish prisons, but the way to solve it is not to spend more tax dollars; it is to start emptying out of those people who should not be here and keep doing crime year after year, time and time again because they are not consistently expelled after the first sentence. So if you solved it from scratch, we didn't have to make it more expensive to be a Dane.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145214	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145216	I don't think so, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen answered my question. After all, it went to all the good things that are in this agreement and about Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen will confirm this, for example. That you get paid in education instead of su. - Sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen does not confirm that it is the idea to set up a prison in Kosovo that people can be sent directly from that prison to their home country, to the extent that it cannot be done immediately from here? - Sir... Lars Boje Mathiesen does not confirm and now there is talk of bureaucracy that this agreement abolishes the requirement that reports should be made when handcuffs are used during transportation? In fact, it is in order to accommodate some of the things that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen talks about all good things. - Sir... Lars Boje Mathisen doesn't confirm it's part of the deal here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145304	You can have a lot of good thoughts and intentions. The fact is, these people have a right to come back to Denmark if they want to. So everything else is snitch talk. As far as the financing of the other elements is concerned, we in the New Citizens' Party proposed that we cut aid to developing countries and the support we give to a lot of organisations out there that do not bring any benefits. So we agree that something could be done in this area. We just said that we would much rather find funding in something about development aid that makes no sense than that we would demand the money out by the Danes. DF would then rather demand the money out by the Danes, who would then have to pay, by having a TV subscription instead of cutting off foreign aid. It's so DF's decision, not ours.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145340	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no more brief comments. Thanks for getting the platform ready. The next rapporteur comes from the Green Group. Sir. Uffe Elbæk, welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145353	That's exactly right. I'm not usually a tax rapporteur. I am a cultural rapporteur, so when I stand here, it is of course because this bill has a bias in relation to cultural life. I will start with the conclusion. It is that we do not support this proposal. We do not do so, partly because of the financing model behind it, partly because of the export of our problems to Kosovo when it comes to prison places. But my focus is on culture and the challenge culture faces with this bill if it is implemented. I think that the debate that has also taken place in this Chamber reveals that we have had to find some money for conciliation. You've been sitting one night and you've found out that if we pull this money out of cultural life, there's positive numbers on the bottom line. I think that at all levels of leadership is problematic. On the one hand, we need EU legislation to be implemented. We naturally support this, but there are many ways to do so. That is why we believe that the whole process is backwards. If this was all about implementing EU legislation in relation to these television packages, then what room of movement would there have been? Positive lists have been mentioned in this Chamber. Could it have been a little different? It has also been mentioned in the debate that it might have been possible to make differentiated VAT, which is something of a taboo concept in Danish politics. But you could have done that. There have been many things we could have done differently, but because we had to have legislation through in a completely different policy area, namely criminal justice, this decision was rushed through. And what is the consequence? It is that cultural life loses up to 288 million. kr. I think it is deeply problematic and I feel that this government is talking with two mouths is that how it is formulated? On the one hand, New Year's speeches and opening speeches say that cultural life is absolutely crucial for Danish society, not least in a coronatide, where it is pressured on all leaders and edges. And now we are implementing legislation that is straining cultural life. In other words, there is simply something in the argument that I do not understand at all. So there is a difference between word and action. It's the party speeches, and then there's the bottom lines. I don't understand why the parties that support this haven't shouted in arms. And I fully agree with those of my fellow Members who have stood up here so far saying that this requires an enormously serious committee procedure. So I hope there's such a sense of reason over the last hundred meters where you find out how to find this money in a different way. You have to implement this EU legislation. I really think you should. But if it has consequences, can you soften it up, or can you find another grip on it? So we cannot support L 106 and I hope that we will have a proper, very thorough committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145740	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145745	Thank you. Now it's time, sir. Uffe Elbæk actually just to say it at the end of his speech. In fact, it is believed that EU legislation, which this country has signed up to, is of course being implemented, and the government, which then negotiated it, had a mandate to do so via the European Committee. I hope we can agree that this is, of course, the record for us here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145817	That is also why it was important for me to stress in the end that I think that we should implement EU legislation. Of course, of course we should. That's the deal we have. That is the ambition we have. That's the community we're part of. I fully agree, but there are many ways to do that. That is why it seems quite paradoxical to set up a working group which will have to find out on a later basis whether this is appropriate. If I had been a minister, I would have asked whether we should not have examined it properly first and then find out how we can make it so lenient, so that there is consistency between what we say in the field of cultural policy and then the actions that are decided on and the economy that is for art and culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145858	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145900	If you read the EU directive and, by the way, the latest adoption from February 2020 no. 284 on e.g. payment services, then there are not many ways to do that, as we are not already doing today, unless we continue to work on differentiated VAT. After all, it is quite fair to have a view that more work needs to be done on differentiated VAT. I just wanted to say to Mr. Knox. Uffe Elbæk, that this is a very, very expensive way of working, and perhaps we should then consider instead of • and I hope that Mr. Uffe Elbæk and the Free Greens are involved in the media talks. We make sure that there is a really massive investment and that we push the government there when we start the media negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111145952	I just want to say, yes and yes. And if I were to say anything further than that, I think that the Free Greens and the Christian Democrats are very much in agreement when we go to media negotiations. I have such a feeling, because I know my colleague, and if the colleague has not changed his position on media policy from one party to another, but if he thinks what he has said, then I think we are very much in agreement, and so are we when it comes to standing up for the European Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111150022	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Christian Democrats. Welcome to sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111150043	Thank you. I can reassure you, sir. Uffe Elbæk: There are some who change principles for their party, and then there are some who change parties for their principles. I'm one of the last. I have certainly not changed my attitude as to what investments should be made, even in relation to culture. In our 2030 plan in KD, we have said that there will be 2 billion each year. kr. We have a cultural life that has been the subject of bloodshed and bleeding for years, among other things. This is a policy which has been pursued in the form of green harvesting. And what is lacking in today's cultural life is not just that we relax what has happened, but that we give our cultural life and our art • I think it is important also to dare to talk about art, including the elitist part of that investment perspective. We need that so that we can discuss seriously what it is that our art and culture will tell us about our generation in 100 years' time, just as when we travel around Europe, or when you go and enjoy beautiful buildings and enjoy what was created by art and culture 100 years ago, and which we still think is important because it tells a story about us. So we're on the whole agenda. When it comes to the media play and the media settlement, I have not at any time concealed the fact that I couldn't get it through the Radical Left, unfortunately, but I have been able to do that in KD, and it's also a little easier when you're not so many that we want to double the media support in Denmark, and that's when someone gets the coffee in their throat when you say it. It is violent to go up to 10 or 12 billion. kr. in media support, they say, but if we compare it with the budgets of Netflix, Facebook or Disney+ streaming services that have come to this country, it is peanuts. And for us, media support is not about supporting various media; it is simply about our democratic infrastructure, and it is our democratic infrastructure and the fact that we have to do something about our news deserts around the country, which, in our view, requires a rather massive investment. Because in the end it is all about having media that is relevant in the Danes' minds, because if they are not, then it doesn't really matter. So we're looking forward to it, and sir. Søren Søndergaard and I, and Mr. Uffe Elbæk has also been involved in this, if anyone has been asking for a media outlay from the government since the 2019 elections, and the media show has probably gradually had the most exposed premiere I have witnessed in Danish politics. So we are hoping that it will come from the government very soon so that we can start negotiating. After all, every day there are also journalistic jobs lost, because there is also a tournament purely advocacy. There's Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard is absolutely right in his analysis. So let's finally get on with it. Having said that, however, we cannot sit here in the Danish Parliament and renounce an EU judgment which states quite clearly that we must implement the VAT directive as it stands today. And we have stood in the Danish Parliament and adopted and also several Danish politicians have been involved in fighting, during the time I sat in the European Parliament, for copyright to be a European matter and for us to deal with the European issue, but that also includes the fact that we agree on how to deal with it in terms of settlement. That is why we need to implement and implement the directive which says that these services must be subject to VAT. When we end up voting yellow with the lax attitude, it is because we do not, under any circumstances, want to sign the prisons in Kosovo. I therefore regret that I have to say that we are voting yellow, because I think it is a little weak to do so, in principle. However, we do not want to take responsibility for a settlement of criminal justice and for funding which we think is hopeless, but we would, of course, at all times like to stand up for a directive which is quite reasonable because it combats VAT fraud between countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111150613	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is only from Mr Seligman's point of view. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111150618	I simply cannot force a dispute with Mr. Jens Rohde on the broad lines of media policy or on the importance of art. So let us stick to what is here: a very clear EU judgment that told us to implement. But it doesn't surprise you, sir. Jens Rohde, that you bring a Well, that suggests that nothing is very clear here. And by the way, sir. Jens Rohde, which one prefers the Christian Democrats to the first edition or the second edition of the two editions we have seen? Maybe there's a third edition; that's just what we're investigating. Then I agree that it's a little weak pissing to vote yellow. Vote red!
ParlaMint-DK_20220111150713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111150714	It was kind of an invitation to Mr. Søren Søndergaard! Yeah, I actually agree with sir. Søren Søndergaard in that it is a rather funny way to make a bill, and then you set up a committee. I have some experience with EU directives, and I have to say clearly that I am not a lawyer, but as I read it and excuse me, the VAT directive is not insanely complicated; it may be that you think it is, but it does not take very long to read through it. I only see what is now as an opportunity. In other words, if we want to implement it differently from the way the government is proposing here, then it is my reading that then we have to get into the field where we have a general discussion of differentiated VAT. And I know that none of the big parties will be involved, for that is a very expensive way to do it. And then I actually think that we can find other solutions more specifically.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111150825	There is no other brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard. On the other hand, there is a brief comment from Mr. Uffe Elbæk of the Free Greens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111150834	It is primarily just to say thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I look forward to the media negotiations, which are said to be just around the corner. I'd still like to ask a question. Now the rapporteur himself mentions differentiated VAT, and what is the position of the Christian Democrats on this? It is, of course, one of the tools that are in the toolbox, in the context of a differentiated approach to the VAT issue, which could possibly have been used in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111150910	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111150912	When I get that question, I usually say that I am German, and I know of some absurdities in the German differentiated VAT legislation. I'm very skeptical about going that way. It is really, really difficult to define which goods should reasonably have one VAT and the other VAT. It is suddenly going to be such a thing with packaging, and what do I know, and it is a total joke in Germany, if I may put it bluntly, so I am sceptical about it for that reason. But then I am also sceptical about differentiated VAT for another reason. I can at least remember that when I was in the Left, another VAT on fruit and vegetables was discussed a great deal, and I also know that I am recording the Free Greens, and that is that it costs, now the tax minister has to correct me if I am wrong, 6 billion. This is why I recommend that consideration be given to whether we do not make it more targeted. It does not move much, because we are lubricating the butter very, very thinly, so perhaps we should choose another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151030	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151031	It is not because we are now going to do a workshop on VAT policy, but it is interesting because a healthy logic would be that what is good and healthy should be cheap, while what is not good and healthy should be expensive. In this way, there is an interesting political discussion, and that is what will cost a lot and what will cost less. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151056-2	Yeah, that's very reasonable. However, VAT presents us with the challenge that we cannot just get back into EU legislation once again... lower VAT on one item and then raise it on another, because we are hitting the VAT ceiling in the EU. You must have a maximum VAT rate of 25%. That is to say, if we start touching it, a very, very large hole will arise in the box and butter will then be spread very thinly for a very, very small price reduction, so I think we should try to look at other ways of pursuing some very sympathetic and sensible objectives, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151139	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. Then there are no more brief comments. I just want to come up with new concepts for voting yellow, so you could think about that too. Well, then, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, of the Conservative People's Party in the Chamber, is also given the floor as rapporteur at the first reading of the bill here. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151212	Thank you. After all, this is a controversial legislative proposal, which is about introducing VAT in some areas of the art world on which there is no VAT today, and we would have liked to have been out of it in isolation, but we, like the other parties, have thought that we need to comply with the rules contained in EU directives. This new VAT is not being introduced because of the agreement on criminal justice, it is being introduced because there is an EU directive requiring Denmark to introduce this new VAT. So when you try to link it to the fact that it is because an agreement has been made on criminal justice, it is wrong. No matter how you chose to spend that money, this new VAT would come. We are sorry about this, but we do not really see that there is any choice in our policy, because we have to comply with the directives that come from the European Union, so we have therefore accepted that the money is being spent in a way that we think is reasonable, namely that the money is being spent on the agreement on criminal justice, which, among other things, is being spent. contain prisons in Kosovo and a number of other things that we are in favour of. However, it is important for us to say that, in a way, we agree that cultural life has had a really hard time. I do not know whether the rights holders and large television package providers are the ones who have necessarily had the hardest of these times, and that it is therefore necessarily those who have had the hardest, we hit aller most with these new rules, because I do not think it is, but cultural life has generally had a really hard time. It is important for us to maintain a minimum implementation of the directive, and I would like us to have an educational overview of the situations in which VAT is to be paid and in which situations VAT is not to be paid, on the part of the tax minister. It is described in the bill, but I would like it to be cut out for us, who like things simple and clear, so that there could be a list of 15, 20 examples of situations where you pay VAT and where you do not pay VAT, so it is quite clear when the artists will pay, when the rightholder will pay, when TV stations, Koda and all sorts of others will pay VAT and when they will not pay VAT. We need these examples so that we can make it concrete and so that it can be clear to us that, hopefully, this is only a minimum implementation. We understand from the government that that is what is, and that is also what we want there to be, but I hope the tax minister will deliver that to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151453	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment. Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151458	It was first of all to the comment that the 285 million had to be collected. kr. But when we have been in government together, we have brought the money back to the areas when we have had to raise taxes and taxes. Is this a consideration that the Conservatives have had?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151512	I have also said before that I would very much like to take part in some debates on what we can do for cultural life in general. It is clear that we cannot bring the money back to those who pay it, such a one to one, because that would be the same as cancelling VAT, and of course we should not. That would be an evasion of the rules. You can't introduce a tax and then say, you get a giro card on what you paid. Because then you don't pay the tax, and then you haven't introduced the tax. So you can't. However, we would like to discuss what we can do in general for cultural life, because cultural life is incredibly difficult. These are the most difficult years for cultural life at all for a very, very long time. I don't want to say anything about it, but in recent times at least this is the most difficult year for cultural life at all. That is why we are very sorry that there is an extra burden on cultural life.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151604	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151606	Thank you. I understand that. We also want to do something for cultural life, but we just didn't think they should pay these 285 million. kr., without then making sure that they benefited cultural life. But it's so different. On 3 December 2021 in Politiken, the Conservative Culture rapporteur said about the proposal: "This is a wet cloth on the face of the many people who are affected by this, and it comes right after corona. We therefore call on both the Minister for Culture and the Minister for Taxation to carefully identify the consequences for the entire cultural sector before the proposal comes to the Assembly Hall. My question is therefore: have you taken care of it? Has the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Taxation identified the consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151647	I don't think it's possible to prove that they've been carefully mapped out enough. But it is clear that there has of course been a discussion about what the consequences have been when the agreement on criminal justice was made. And in the legislative procedure here there will also be a discussion of what the consequences will be. It is of course important, as I said before, that it is quite clear what is being implemented. But I don't know if it's mapped out thoroughly enough. It can certainly bear to be mapped out even more, so it is quite clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151715	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151717	There is, of course, fierce competition between television package distributors, who pay rights money to artists and who bring out Danish public service, and then multinational international streaming services, which do not contribute anything that does not provide public service. And it is clear that when there is competition between the two, it is price sensitive. I just want to know whether the Conservative People's Party agrees that this benefits international multinational streaming services that do not contribute, at the expense of the Danish-based television package distributors who contribute. That is one question. The second question concerns the fact that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov says this has nothing to do with the settlement of criminal justice. But Mr. Rasmus Jarlov did not see that it is a strange order in which one first decides not only to commit, among other things. Mr. Rasmus Jarlov to vote in favour of a legislative proposal, but also to set a certain income it has to provide to finance this conciliation, and then to set up a working group to look at the technical implementation? Isn't that the reverse order? Because if it did not have to do with the settlement of criminal justice, one could have waited, as it will not have to enter into force until 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151838	Yes, you can say that, but I do not know if Enhedslisten had any other realistic funding proposals for that agreement on criminal justice. It is also a bit of a cheap round here when there are so many parties in Parliament who say they are against this funding. Firstly, it had come here with VAT on artistic services completely, whether or not we had made that agreement on criminal justice, because the fact that there is VAT is not conditional on that agreement on criminal justice; it is conditional on the EU having decided that the rules should be and that we should implement it. Secondly, I think we should also say how otherwise we would have financed the agreement on criminal justice in a way that is realistic, that is to say, as one might think could be adopted in the Folketing, which could find broad support. I heard that New Citizens used to come up with some proposals that they would cut back on foreign aid, which would not be able to find a majority. After all, in a debate like this, we have to come up with something that can find a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151941	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111151942	If you wanted to, you could have made that tax on streaming services. In other words, that would certainly be a way of not moving competition in favour of the multinationals and behind the television distributors who are located in Denmark and contribute to Danish content. But the opposite was chosen. It would otherwise have been very realistic, it would have been straightforward if the media were to be involved in criminal justice. But I do not really think there is an answer from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov to the point that an agreement is reached at a time when it is unclear what the agreement really means. On the one hand, we must now have a decision on a technical review, and on the other hand we have seen that the content of the agreement that was concluded has changed from many more to fewer. What, then, is EU legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111152029	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111152030	I am not sure that I fully understood the last question, but first of all I would like to say that I do not think it is so straightforward just to introduce a tax on American streaming services that Enhedslisten proposes and wants. I think it is breaking with some international trade agreements about what can be introduced by taxes. So no, it's not that simple, and that's just one more example of you standing here with some air castels saying that you could just do something else that you couldn't have done. So I think there are a little too many cheap points here today, but the important thing is still to make it clear that the VAT coming now comes because it is a demand from the European Union and not because of an agreement on criminal justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111152110	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111152113	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for that explanation. As I normally see Conservatives, it's a cultural party. I myself have had the pleasure of being with the Culture rapporteur, Birgitte Bergman, sometimes, and I do not see how Conservatives can be included in an agreement where you take the money out of the pocket of some who do not have any money at the moment, as you are doing here. Where this has something to do with the agreement on criminal justice is, of course, that when you spend 285 million. kr. Somewhere else, you just can't give the money back. But now, let's say we had the money... how would Conservatives think it was best to do this 285 million? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111152209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111152210	Again I would say that the agreement here on VAT on artistic activities is not made because of the agreement on the criminal services it is made because there is an EU directive which dictates that it should so it is not because of the agreement we made on criminal justice, no matter how many times you try to repeat that message. If we had 285 million. I do not think they would be given to the right-holders who are now subject to VAT. I believe that money would be spent elsewhere: on those who are more needy after being shut down for a very long time. Streaming services and other things that have not been shut down are probably not the ones who suffer the most from the corona restrictions. I think it is for example museums, actors and lecturers who have the hardest time here in the coronatide and who need the most help. It is just to mention some examples; it may be that there are some I have just forgotten here, but it will be some of those who have at least had a really hard time, by the fact that activities where you should have a large audience have been cancelled.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111152320	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111152321	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Then perhaps conservatives should have had a little bit more ice in their stomachs. After all, we say from the Left that that money should intelligently be brought back to our cultural life. That's what we're saying. So if you agreed, maybe you should have had a little more ice in your stomach during the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111152352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111152353	I don't know. We also believe that, with regard to the negotiations on criminal justice, there is a great need to get more prison places and to make the prison system work better. In fact, we think this is very, very important. But once again: it is not because the European Union has dictated that it should be introduced. Whatever agreement we had made on criminal justice, this would have been introduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111152426	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Thus, all the rapporteurs who wanted to speak have been on the floor, and this has made it the turn of the Minister of Taxation. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111152450	Thank you for that, President. May I not begin by thanking you for the receipt of the bill. After all, we came a long way, and that is also quite fair, because if you look at the legislative proposal as such, it also contains several elements, and it is fair that it also gives rise to a little debate. However, as I have said, the draft law contains several elements which either help to simplify what might be called unnecessary and cumbersome rules in the area of VAT and excise duties, or which, as has also been promoted, help to ensure that the Danish rules are in line with EU law. We can also hear the most important and important change in the proposal in this debate, since it concerns VAT on authors' and artists' copyrights, and here I think it is important to note immediately that Denmark is obliged to adapt its legislation in accordance with EU law and that precisely that amendment is necessary to bring the Danish VAT rules into line with EU rules in this area. Secondly, I would just like to emphasise that the proposal, which has also been put forward, is part of the financing of a new multi-annual agreement for the economy of criminal justice between 2022 and 2025. It is an agreement made between the government, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Conservative People's Party, and the agreement then helps to lay the foundations for a necessary recovery of criminal justice, with a substantial increase in capacity and, of course, a determined effort to maintain and recruit the necessary prison officers to do so. At the same time, hard action is being taken against inmates who do not want a life outside crime, while those who want to be part of society must be better helped on the way. I think it is very positive that such an agreement has been reached for the criminal justice economy. I think it is a good, an important and a broad agreement, and the parties behind the agreement will then take responsibility for it also in relation to bringing the VAT rules into line with EU law, as we have heard in today's debate. Let me start by mentioning a few changes which will also ease the administrative burden on businesses and citizens. Firstly, it is proposed to simplify the calculation of VAT by companies in the special scheme for second-hand goods, etc., i.e. the so-called used VAT system. Under the current rules, companies trading second-hand goods purchased from private individuals or non-taxable companies may avoid paying VAT several times of the same product by using the used VAT scheme. The scheme allows companies to calculate only VAT on profits rather than on the entire selling price. Today, an undertaking dealing in second-hand goods must, as a general rule, settle VAT for each item. The proposal makes it more possible to calculate VAT for a tax period rather than per year. sales. This will simplify the rules as well as the administrative burden on businesses. What might be an example? Yes, it might be that all antiquarians who buy and sell used books, for example, will be able to determine the total profit of the books per year. period of taxation, such as: could be the quarter and that therefore they do not have to account for profits and hence VAT per year. book. Secondly, it is proposed that the requirement for temporary importation from the Faroe Islands and Greenland should be abolished if the recipients of the goods are established in Denmark, in the Faroe Islands or in Greenland. And with this part of the proposal, the rules on temporary importation will be simplified and an obstacle will be removed within the Kingdom community. I am, of course, pleased that these two initiatives are included in the proposal and help to simplify the VAT rules, which may be complicated, and that they help to ease the burden on businesses. As mentioned, the proposal also contains elements to ensure that the Danish VAT rules are in line with EU VAT rules, since the Danish VAT rules, as has also been suggested in the debate, are based on common EU VAT rules. This means that, as I said, Denmark is obliged to adapt Danish legislation to new directives and decisions of the European Court of Justice. As the third element, it is proposed to apply VAT to copyright licences. Licenses for copyrights are typically granted to companies wishing to use a copyrighted product. It will typically be a management organisation such as KODA or Gramex which, on behalf of an author or artist, allows companies to use the products through a license, such as: may be allowed to play music in a shopping centre. Today it is not VAT-related to grant such licences. However, it is necessary to amend the rules in force here in the light of, inter alia: a judgment of the European Court of Justice of January 2021. As has also been the case in today's debate, in connection with the consultation of the draft law, there have been a number of questions here about the proposal, and, following on from this, the proposal, which has also been put forward, has been amended, and this is important so that authors and artists do not become liable to VAT when they grant permission to use their products themselves. This means, for example, that the payment a musician receives, which is usually from a management organisation, when the music is played on, for example. Spotify, is not liable to the musician. The fact that the freedom of VAT can be maintained for the artists themselves is due to the fact that Denmark uses an opportunity in EU rules to exempt authors and artists, including performers. But this particular exemption from VAT is personal and therefore cannot be used by anyone other than authors and artists. This has the consequence of adding value added tax to licences when other than artists give it. In other words, VAT obligations will apply to management organisations, for example. KODA, Gramex or Copydan, which in their own name grant licenses to companies who want to use it. It could be Spotify, but also others who want to play music from their artists, show a movie or the like. It is important for the government that the artists with the bill do not experience administrative trouble and have unnecessary costs associated with the VAT obligation on licences for the use of copyright, and a solution to this has been found with the amended bill. At the same time, it is important to stress that artists are also generally taken into account in the Danish VAT rules, where artistic services and the sale of works of art are to a large extent subject to special rules in the VAT law, which means that VAT is either not paid or only very little VAT is paid, and these special rules will of course continue to apply. For example, it will. say that a musician's live performance remains VAT-free and that authors will be able to give talks and readings, etc. free of VAT. As far as the sale of works of art is concerned, it is the case that an artist should not be registered for VAT if the sale is less than DKK 300,000. Every year, and if the sale exceeds this amount, only 20% of VAT is payable. the sale price, which in fact corresponds to 5% of VAT. In order to allow management organisations sufficient time to change the IT system, it is then proposed that the law here will not enter into force until 1 January 2023. Finally, I would like to mention that, as I said, I am extremely pleased that, just before Christmas, we managed to reach a significant, decisive and structural change in agreement for the future of criminal justice services, namely the multi-annual agreement for the economy of criminal justice between 2022 and 2025 with the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Conservative People's Party, where the changes to the VAT rules are therefore part of the financing of the agreement. Moreover, in the context of the agreement, it has also been decided that we should set up a rapid-working ministerial working group which, in parallel with Parliament's consideration, will explain the implementation of the proposal in relation to EU law and the guidelines for minimum rates. Thank you very much for receiving the bill. Of course, we are happy to answer all the questions that may be asked, both as regards the way in which the draft law is now drafted, the relationship with EU law and the other issues that might be related to the proposal. We are, of course, at the disposal of the Committee's, here, the Committee on Taxation, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Committee on Legal Affairs and However, thank you for your support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153433	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister, and it is only from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153439	One thing is that we are fully in favour of EU legislation, but then you choose to spend the money in a completely different area, which means that it is just a tax increase where the money is spent on something else and put in the treasury. Can the Minister say whether there could have been something EU-unlawful in it if one had chosen, for example? Putting the money in the media negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153503	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153503-2	I am not in a position to answer that here. But it's true that when you've been in here for a few years, you've seen that funding elements have been found to make big deals. I don't think that's unknown to any of those who sit in this room and there's this one element of it. What I am responsible for is ensuring that we comply with our EU legal obligations, and we believe that we are doing this here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153527	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153529	The 285 million. kr., which it has of lasting effect before reflowing and behavior, is after all money that needs to get out of the pocket. It's money, it costs the industry, if you can put it that way. So as such, there is a behavior that is being changed so that ultimately you end up consuming less culture, and therefore the amount falls to 215 million. kr. What will this have to do with Danish cultural life, which is already under pressure at this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153558	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153559	There have been some figures in the debate which come from the organisations' calculations of the consequences that will have, for example, for television packages. We have not done the calculations ourselves, but it is clear that there will be consequences. It would be unnatural other. But I think the Left should be careful not to raise the tab too high in relation to how it has previously been used to finance multi-year agreements for, for example, criminal services and police. Now there has been a good debate, and then I had some time to sit and look at how, for example, in a finance agreement, criminal justice from 2008-2011 was financed, and this was done, for example, by reducing the conditions for non-profit associations. Finance agreements have been financed by reducing public consumption. I would very much like to make a calculation of the consequences it would have today for culture if what the then bourgeois government carried out when it just stepped in, so we can have a discussion on that. This helps to finance a multi-year agreement, that is true, but the basic thing here is that we are implementing the result of an EU judgment in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153707	Thank you. Speaking time is well over. The next brief remark is to Mr. Uffe Elbæk, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153713	My question is actually that if the Minister could rewind this whole negotiation process, would he have separated the two things, that is, the one: the implementation of EU legislation, and the other, namely an agreement on criminal justice? For the debate that has taken place in this Chamber, but also among the artistic organisations, has raised a whole series of questions, and then a working group has been set up to try to find ways of dealing with the challenges that this resolution brings. So if the Minister could rewind the process with all the knowledge that has now come on, would you have shared the two processes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153758	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153759	What I am responsible for is that when a judgment has been handed down at the European Court of Justice that the VAT rules we have in Denmark should be adapted to it, then I am responsible for ensuring it. I think I'll have other problems if I don't. Then, of course, one can always discuss, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard has also been there, and he will probably ask if you could do it in a different way. There it is, then, the Treasury's clear assessment that this is the way to do it. It is true that it has changed the character of the first draft, if you like, the second draft, and it has done so for the sake of the artists who were concerned about administrative problems and other things. We have, so to speak, transferred the obligation to pay VAT from artists to management organisations. That's what we've done. Should we have stopped mixing these two things together? We must ask ourselves where you are responsible for the criminal justice negotiations. I think this is a very good financing element, which helps to ensure that we also contribute here to the recovery of criminal services. It is high time that this was addressed. I am pleased to be part of the government which can secure a broad majority in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153905	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153907	Well, that's exactly the point I'm chasing, too, of course. There was first a draft, and then you change it, and then there's a new draft. In addition, a working group will be set up to assess whether this is appropriate. If the Minister is so sure that this is the right model, why, first of all, is he jumping from the first draft to the second, and why is he setting up a working group at all if the Minister is so sure that this is the only way to do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153942	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111153943	This is because the agreement was reached on the setting up of such a rapid-working ministerial working group, which, in parallel with the parliamentary procedure, would explain the implementation of the proposal in relation to EU law. That is what has been agreed, and that is what is being established. I believe that, regardless of how you turn it and how you turn it, there are not many ways around this European Court of Justice. I was glad that Mr. Uffe Elbæk also before to Mr. Jens Rohde confirmed that there is an obligation to implement this. That is what the government is helping to secure here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154018	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154021	Thank you. I think it is so sweet when the Minister praises the broad majority behind this agreement. Could the majority be smaller? Was it technically possible that it was less than the very, very narrow majority that has been made? Well, I think it's sweet. But apart from that, I would like to ask two questions. One thing is: if, in the working group, it is found that it is actually possible to make less implementation than the one envisaged in this, can it have consequences for revenue? Is this something that is included in the agreement or is the proceeds fixed? Or can a decision in that working group have consequences for the proceeds? And the second question: is there not really an incentive here for artists not to be part of a management organisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154112	I'm not in a position to answer that last one. It must be based on the individual artist's choice and behavior. Honestly, I find that hard to answer. I understand the question, but I find it difficult to answer it immediately. Then it is clear that when you make broad agreements, as this is an expression of, money must be found. There's a bottom line that has to be connected, and this has been a financing element where you'll find these little 300 million. kr. to help finance a multi-annual agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154148	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154149	All right, we are asking the question of management organisations in writing, although I think that it should be an obvious question for a social democrat who, in the second context, has adopted legislation calling on people to join together in management organisations. Let it go. But the second question does not answer. So, is it a bullshit bullshit that has been given to some parties, or can you imagine reaching a conclusion that says that we can actually implement this in a less intrusive way? It only has the consequence that the revenue will be reduced. The Minister must be able to say if that is possible. So you have to get the money in a different way, I understand that, but is it an option that you can find a model that generates less revenue than the text of the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154234	I haven't been involved in negotiating this deal. As I said, I am responsible for implementing this bill so that we ensure that our VAT rules are in line with EU law. I find it difficult to imagine that it will end up where Enhedslisten indicates you would like it to end up, all the time that the cost is sead, and therefore the revenue must of course also be found. It is a bottom line that is tied together here, if you like, and what we do in parallel is that we set up this working group to look at how the proposal is implemented under EU law. That is the way forward, and that is what has been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154309	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154310	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I would like to start by saying that I know that the Minister is interested in culture. I'm seeing the minister at all sorts of events around here. They say, "Okay, I'll just stand here and find the money." But there is a consequence at the other end, where we all meet at all sorts of different cultural events; that's where the money gets pulled out of the pockets of people, and then they go down to the wards. It is such a strange debate, I think, when you have to hear the Minister say: well, but I just find the money because that is what I have to do. I know, however, that the Minister is interested, and here we can see that at least in relation to culture there is no connection with what the government is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154419	So, the rapporteur, who is from a government-supporting party, whom I have been in this Parliament for 20 years, for example, as rapporteur for finance and legal affairs, has had the opportunity to make multi-year agreements on both police and criminal services and have been involved in financial law negotiations, and he stands by saying that it seems completely unknown that priority should be given to making this type of multi-year agreement. May I just remind you that when, for example, a multi-year agreement was made for the criminal services at some point in the mid-00s, it was financed by an adjustment of public travel sickness insurance, which reduced the opportunities for people to pay for the return journey if they were injured abroad. However, that is a priority. If we look at another agreement in this area, we can see that the conditions of non-profit-making associations have deteriorated. It is also a priority. So the fact that you try to draw a picture of that you've never even had the cuts in it yourself, I really think you have to be careful. If you try to start by looking at what economic policy the then government was pursuing, where public consumption was reduced, that is, what it meant when the Finance Act was made in 2004, that the real economy in the public sector was reduced as sharply as was done for culture, for example, then we can have a debate about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154540	Thank you. Sir. Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154542	Yes, but, sir. Minister, there are some people out there who are now going to get less money. There are artists who simply can see that they are getting a worse business. They don't really care what's happened in the past. Of course they are. They don't give a shit what's happened in the past. And then we have to hear Conservatives say, as they said just now, that it has nothing to do with each other, but perhaps the Minister can clarify that in the end. It had something to do with each other, didn't it? Despite what Conservatives said before, it has something to do with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154619	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154620	Well, formally, it has nothing to do with each other. The Conservatives are right about that. This is about implementing EU legislation into Danish law. It gives money on the table, an additional revenue, because increased VAT revenue is coming in. They choose a broad majority in the Folketing so to use to strengthen criminal justice. And that is what I was trying to say before: if you try to be so far away from reality from the Left that you say it is such an unfamiliar exercise for the Left, then I think you should try to wake up a little and then just try to learn a little bit more about what you have been doing yourself. This will, of course, have consequences, but when you see the economic policy which the then left-wing government has been behind, it is not at all comparable to that which I have no doubt about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154703	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154737	The debate is open, and first it is the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111154741	Thank you for that, President. As I said, we need to consider a resolution from the Enhedslisten, which requires the government to draw up a national blacklist of tax havens. This is a partial re-submission of a motion for a resolution from the parliamentary year 2018-19, which is called B 34. The aim of a national blacklist is to complement the EU blacklist, which, according to Enhedslisten, is inadequate in the fight against tax havens and aggressive tax planning. I would like to start by signing for Enhedslisten's commitment to the fight against tax havens and tax evasion, and I really do think so. That commitment is one that I and the whole government wholeheartedly share. Therefore, I would also like to stress that when the government cannot support the proposal, it is certainly not due to disagreement on the objective, but only to the means of achieving it. I do not believe that a national blacklist is a means that is needed. It is, to put it bluntly, both arduous and, indeed, an inefficient means of achieving an otherwise quite reasonable objective. According to the Enhedslisten, the national blacklist should be complementary to the EU blacklist of tax havens. It is proposed that the blacklist on three points should be different from the blacklist in the European Union. Firstly, countries with a corporation tax rate of less than 9%. automatically placed on the national blacklist. The corporate tax rate is not a criterion for entering the EU blacklist today. Secondly, the national blacklist must cover both third countries and also EU countries. Today, therefore, the EU's blacklist only covers countries outside the European Union. Thirdly, in the context of the national blacklist, there should be no observation list. The countries must be removed from the national blacklist only when they comply with the listed criteria. The EU operates an observation list in the form of the so-called grey list, listing countries when they have undertaken to comply with the listed criteria. I am convinced that all of us here in the Danish Parliament want an offensive action to be taken against tax havens, tax evasion and aggressive tax planning, and I am really pleased that since the change of government a new broad majority has been found in the Danish Parliament, actually with all the parties of the Danish Parliament who have given priority not only to means but also to new tools for this struggle, because tax havens undermine our welfare society. As I said, the Danish Government has an ambition to contribute, also as far as possible, to the establishment of a fair global tax system, but I do not believe that a national blacklist such as the one proposed by Enhedslisten is an effective tool for promoting good tax practice in the international context. This is achieved most effectively internationally, not least within the framework of the European Union, and there are several reasons for this. A national blacklist will contain individual and separate actions that Denmark will be left alone in enforcing. If the requirements of such a list become too harsh, we could risk companies, indeed the good ones, leaving the country in favour of others, for example. other European countries. Effective and meaningful implementation of a national blacklist also requires a thorough knowledge of the tax systems of all the countries and, moreover, a high level of resource consumption, including the acquisition of commitments and the assessment of criteria, follow-up and ongoing diplomatic contact at a typically high level if this is to work. Furthermore, it is often seen that arrangements with tax havens and other forms of aggressive tax planning are exploited by international actors established across national borders. That is why it is not least natural that we should nurture our European alliances and confront the harmful tax regimes, as they are called, in a strong European community. Denmark can thus gain more influence by focusing on influencing and strengthening joint initiatives implemented within the European Union. Also outside the European Union, important initiatives are being taken to combat tax havens. In particular, I think it should be mentioned that a number of international measures were agreed recently, in other words, within the framework of the OECD. a global common minimum tax rate of 15%. for larger multinational groups. The European Commission has published, shortly before Christmas, a draft directive to implement this extremely important initiative, which obliges all the Member States of the European Union. The initiative is a major and also very important step in the fight against tax havens, and this is precisely a good example of the kind of international initiative that can effectively help to combat the use of aggressive tax competition. The government's assessment is that such joint coordinated action has a much greater impact than separate national actions with individual criteria, which Denmark will then stand alone with. When you read the resolution from the Enhedslisten, you can get the impression that neither Denmark nor the European Union is working to solve the problem of harmful tax regimes and that the EU blacklist is not an effective tool. I do not think this is a correct picture, because we should not forget the great effort which, in fact, is also guaranteed jointly between the government, the Enhedslisten and other parliamentary parties, both in Denmark and in the European Union. Denmark has introduced what are known as defensive measures against the EU blacklist countries, which include: consists of an increased yield tax of 44 per cent when the beneficiary is resident in one of the blacklist countries and, under the EU regime, a total of 24 Member States have similarly introduced one or more defensive measures aimed at countries on the EU blacklist of tax havens. The EU blacklist is a good and effective tool for combating tax havens, because the list is based on internationally recognised criteria of tax transparency, fair taxation and the BEPS minimum standards from the OECD and what is it? Yeah, they're these standards, like... In this respect, the Commission considers that the contested tax ruling does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. The implementation of these minimum standards is closely monitored by the EU Code of Conduct Group and, as the authors of the Enhedslisten today know, there are six-monthly reports on this. Third countries which do not meet these minimum standards will be blacklisted, and in this respect, I think it is worth bearing in mind that all EU countries must already comply with these minimum standards. From the introduction of the blacklist, if you like, the purpose of this list has been to create dialogue and to press third countries to change their harmful tax regimes. The work on the EU blacklist has, among other things, been carried out. led to approx. 130 harmful tax systems have been removed. Most recently, for example, we have been able to find a solution to the problem of hunger in the world. the countries of Dominica and Seychelles have been removed from the blacklist as they have made progress in complying with the international standards for the exchange of information. In addition, the Seychelles recently dismantled a harmful tax regime which contributed to their blacklisting. This is progress and admittedly little success on the road, which can be long and long, in the fight against tax havens. This is an important priority for the government, and the government, as the proposers also know, wants to be among the driving forces in ensuring ambitious international action against tax avoidance. The aim must be to create a global tax system in which no country, either with its eyes open or by turning a blind eye to, if you like, is taking refuge in international tax avoidance any longer. This will be an important contribution to ensuring a fairer, but also fairer, distribution of economic benefits, both in Denmark, but also on a global scale. There is more to be done; there is no doubt about that. However, the government considers the EU blacklist to be an effective tool for promoting good practice in the field of taxation, while corresponding effective results cannot be expected to be achieved with a national blacklist. The government will continue to work to strengthen the EU blacklist rather than, as I said, to introduce national measures. A strengthening will, for example, be necessary. This means increasing and adding new criteria in order to avoid blacklisting and other restrictions on these blacklisted countries. At the same time, of course, we want to strengthen the work within the European Union, where there are also challenges, and overall it is about the government's view that both resources and efforts are best used in the European Union, whether it is about internal affairs within the European Union or about using the EU's dominance over other countries, third countries, outside the European Union, and this is where the blacklist is a valuable tool. It was a long speech, but there is a short conclusion: we cannot support the proposal. We support the intention, but of course I welcome the debate and questions on this very important subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111155833	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111155837	It almost sounded as if Enhedslisten had put forward a proposal to abolish the EU blacklist. I would just like to point out to the Minister that that is not what we are proposing. We propose a supplement to the EU blacklist. And there the Minister uses such wordings as that it is more effective and that it is better than, greater impact etc. Yes, of course it is better if we can do it internationally, and if not worldwide, then on a smaller scale, the OSCE, that is fine, but that does not change the fact that we can do anything else. And that is the question I think the Minister should address. The minister comes up with some scare pictures and companies can move to another EU country, and that is a little weird. People who want to build some town hall in some municipality but do not get the order because they are in a tax haven, how can they move their business to another country? I simply do not understand that. You will be able to use this as a tool, and it will be quite clear when the Minister says about the good things you do in the European Union, where defensive measures against tax havens are possible, and then explains that 24 countries have joined. In other words, there are a number of countries that have not joined, and companies can then move there. Can't you have a supplement, Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111155958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160000	We have a supplement, and that is what we are doing, for example. have agreed on the three stages we have made regarding the strengthening of tax control in Denmark. One of the things we have done is, after all, efforts on very comprehensive tax avoidance, we have strengthened our efforts on tax havens, we have strengthened our efforts on money transfers, that is, the very, very large companies, and we have, for example, implemented legislation with regard to Trinidad and Tobago. So we're gonna do something. But basically, it is about where a small country like Denmark should prioritise its efforts and whether it can have negative consequences if you do as Enhedslisten suggests here, and we therefore assess it will, because we believe that the resources are much better used for a small country like Denmark with a very open economy in a community, and with what is happening in the OECD and in the EU at the moment, there has been a much stronger focus on this in recent years. So the agenda that we have jointly wanted to put here as a result of the change of government and the efforts we have made is on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160107	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160108	This cannot be seen in the number of countries on the EU's blacklist unless it is believed that it is actually moving forward in the fight against tax havens and there is less money placed in tax havens today. The Minister can then explain whether the Minister thinks so. But the Minister then says that there are a number of measures that we can do ourselves, and yes, that is precisely what is happening, but that denies precisely the threat of all the negative effects that will be caused by the fact that we ourselves are making a tax havens. After all, the negative effects will be on all the measures that are mentioned here, as the Minister has said. So what is the reason why exactly the tax havens that can help, for example. the municipalities to know where to buy is harmful?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160150	Because the effort in relation to the overall challenge for a small country like Denmark with a very open economy, where we also depend on capital to flow across borders, may be damaged. That's what I'm saying. Does this mean that we cannot do anything at home to intensify our efforts against tax havens? Certainly not, because we have done so, and we have done so since the change of government. We are now employing 1,000 new employees in tax control, and a substantial part of them will be in the heavy field of tax-economic crime. We are going to give priority to tax havens, transfer pricing, large VAT carousels and other things, which, of course, do not have a connection, so at least an aura of some of the things we are talking about here, and that is why we can do something, but the essential effort must be made in the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160237	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160239	Thank you. Just an hour ago we had a consultation in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, because the State Investment Fund for developing countries, known as the IFU, is using the EU's blacklist of tax havens. It is totally full of holes, and it cannot be used for anything, was at least the main conclusion there. Then we asked, why don't you use the Tax Justice Network's list? It's sharper, and we'd like to be in the lead when we do something out there in the world. There we were told that it was NGOs that had made that list, and therefore it was not really possible to use it for anything. If we want to be the best, and if we in the world want to light up like a torch for the others and say how we can do it, and not run our development aid through tax havens... it's immoral in itself, I think we could use another list if we don't want to make a list ourselves. 'Cause this list has been raided, tested and tested and all the fine stuff you're talking about. Why, then, cannot a list be used that is sharper than the totally hollowed lists in the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160351	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160352	I cannot answer what happened in a consultation an hour ago, and I hope that is quite fair. However, I can say that it is not because the government has no ambition that we should intensify our efforts here. I feel pretty convinced that we're going to follow this. The government, together with the Enhedslisten and the other parties behind the Finance Act, has taken on board the government's core parties, if you want to prioritize a strengthened fiscal control, which is historic. I do not think that is too much said. The boost that comes here means that you will be targeted, for example, at tax havens and aggressive tax planning. It's in the agreements we've made. So we can easily do more, and we will also follow it in the future, but even having a national list with a whole range of criteria, which means that we must both spend resources on it and obtain information about it, and which will conflict with the initiatives that may be in the European Union, we do not think that this is a proper way of dealing with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160500	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160501	But the last time the EU regulated its list, it deteriorated. Some of the heavyweights in the tax havens were removed there, for example. The British Virgin Islands, which are at the top. That's where you steal billions of dollars from the world's poorest countries because they're a tax haven. Those who are precisely the worst of all use the Danish investment fund and thus support the undermining of Danish development aid. So why not use the Tax Justice Network list as an indicative list instead of having nothing? And the Minister also admits that we were standing alone in the European Union, and he told us that there was no hope of strengthening that list in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160550	I cannot answer that, but from the perspective of my chair, that is, from the chair of the Minister of Taxation, there is no doubt that what is happening in the European Union and in the OECD in this area is a step forward that is not seen straight and that I feel quite convinced will be strengthened in the years to come. It is clear that when you are involved in binding cooperation, as EU cooperation is, there are challenges. There are different views and there are different opinions. It is a battle, and we saw that battle taking place under the great, crucial OECD agreement on minimum taxation. It is a battle, and we have Danish views, which, for example, are widely anchored in the Parliamentary Committee on Europe. Of course, we are fighting for them and we can do something, but spending so much resources on a national list does not seem to us to be the right priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160643	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister for Taxation. Then we start with the series of rapporteurs, and the Social Democrat rapporteur is the first. Sir. Jens Joel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160704	Thank you. It is difficult, as rapporteur from the very same party that the Minister represents, to add much here. But, of course, I would also like to thank Enhedslisten for raising the debate on tax havens once again, because it is absolutely crucial that we get it better, it can be said that we are ensuring that we do not have tax havens around the world, which really undermine the foundations on which our social model is based, but which are also a problem for many other countries in the world. If we are to be a little positive, and I know that should not necessarily be the style here when Enhedslisten has called us for a debate, then there are, in fact, things that are moving in the right direction for this agenda at the moment, as the Minister of Taxation also said. We have more attention to it in the European Union. Denmark has been one of the countries that the Danish Government has been one of the governments that has been pushing for it to be on the agenda, but it also fills more in European cooperation than it has for some years. Fortunately, because it will be even more effective, there are also large, significant players at global level at OECD level who have helped to make the historic agreement on one, one might say, global minimum taxation of multinational companies. It's really beneficial. But it is also clear that this debate will easily be about whether you think that you do nothing in Denmark and whether you think that what you do is only something you can do if you have a blacklist. I would like to say that, in addition to the priority of one's forces and whether the blacklist is really the most effective tool, because there is no doubt that the higher up one can anchor such a thing, the more effective it will be, one can do something for oneself. And some of the countries that have individually introduced a blacklist are using it to sort and deal with companies in a way that Denmark does to everyone, whether they are on the blacklist or not. In other words, we have tax rules that guarantee profit tax or tax on income, for example, if you control companies in other countries and are taxable at home. We should not, of course, reduce that part to just those countries that may be on a blacklist. It is, in fact, healthy enough that this applies in general. So all in all, I believe that both what we are doing together with Enhedslisten and other parties in the Danish Parliament to combat tax havens, and what we are doing in the European Union, is what we must continue with, not a new blacklist, but new initiatives. We do not support the resolution and I have promised from the Radical Left to say that neither does the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160942	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, sir. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111160946	I certainly understand that the Social Democrats talk a lot about fighting tax havens over and over again and also make various efforts. In 2016, Mette Frederiksen simply launched a project for the Social Democratic Party about it, where it among other things. It is a fact that the fight against tax havens and tax speculation begins in Denmark, because although there is also a need to combat it at EU level, there is a great deal we can do. And in last year's European Parliament elections, Mrs Mette Frederiksen and Mr. Jeppe Kofod also on the party's election posters with the headline • We go to battle against tax havens. Then it is just that I would like to know how the rapporteur thinks this is related to the fact that, with the active agreement of the Danish Government, the Council of Ministers approved and approved the removal of notorious tax havens such as Cayman Island from the EU blacklist, and how this is linked to the fact that it approved the removal of Anguilla and Seychelles from the blacklist, a few days after the two countries arrived in Pandora Papers as some of the largest tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161111	First of all to the first part of the question, which was about whether we can do something ourselves and whether the effort starts in Denmark, I would say that yes, that is obviously right. Now the rapporteur for the proposers makes this sound like if you are not in favour of this particular proposal, you will not do anything in Denmark to combat tax havens, and after all, reality is not that simple. We can do a lot of things. By the way, we can also make efforts to secure tax payments from a number of countries, even if they are not on a blacklist also better than we have done in the past. That is why I think it is absolutely right to demand that action be taken in Denmark. What we are discussing today is, of course, whether the effort with a blacklist is the most effective way to start, you might say, the fight against tax havens in Denmark. And that is what we do not mean, both because it is of course resource-intensive, because it is too little effective and because there may also be some negative consequences of it. But that is why we would rather give priority to our powers elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161207	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161208	I just don't think the rapporteur answered the question. We have concrete examples of the Danish Government voting in the Council of Ministers to remove countries, for example. Cayman Island and the Seychelles off the blacklist, and then the countries that are mostly at the same time appearing in the Pandora Papers as some of the countries through which tax havens are carried out. So yes, it is more effective to do it in the EU if you work for it in the EU, but at the same time you have to do something in Denmark. And there I just lack the explanation why the blacklist cannot also be another tool, for example. to not pay aid packages to those who are in tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161256	If we do not think that the blacklist is the right tool, it is, of course, linked to the things that have gradually been said sometimes about the effort to be made, in relation to what one gets out of it and how else one could do a more effective fight against tax havens. But it was kind of because Mr. Søren Søndergaard criticizes both the efforts being made at national level and the efforts being made at EU level that I did not reach the discussion about the European Union in the last reply. It is clear that in the European Union it is much more effective when you stand together, but it is also clear that in the European Union we have the challenge that not everyone has been as keen to fight tax havens as Denmark, and that is why there are, of course, some compromises in it. Nevertheless, I would venture to claim that the EU's fight against tax havens has still moved away significantly in the right direction and that it is more effective than if we were left alone with the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161347	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161348	I don't understand. When the EU removes countries from the list, will the list deteriorate? In the example I mentioned to the Minister before, it turns out that the IFU, which is a state-owned fund it is not a multinational company • provides development aid via the British Virgin Islands, which are the heavyweight and number 1 on the rated lists, not on the EU's list. Yet IFU says: we send money through that tax havens country when we send foreign aid to, for example. Myanmar. Is that working for it, then, and then saying that we are only focusing on the EU list or OECD list, as the IFU does, they should do so according to our decisions? They are not looking at the lists where the big bandits of tax havens actually stand. How are you supposed to hit them if they're not on some list? There is no chance in the European Union of putting them on, because it has been tried year after year. Is it not time to make an alternative list for our own country and our own state-owned funds as a minimum?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161457	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161458	I'm a little confused about what these lists are. I assume that some of the lists that Mr. Christian Juhl refers to some of the lists made by some NGOs. This illustrates very well the discussion here, in other words that there are some lists which we cannot, if we may say so, support because they are not sanctioned. The problem with sanctioning these things is that it's not simple. It's not like you can just throw it out and say: Now we put a country on, or we feel safe in this. There's a lot of information, a lot of documentation requirements and a lot of things that you obviously have to understand, and it's probably one of the secrets behind the balance of how you can use your powers most effectively. Is it by maintaining a list that is not going to work well enough, that is not going to be accurate enough or that cannot be supported, or is it making some efforts to combat some of the tax evasion that is taking place? There we have to a bit of both, if you can be so free, even if we have to speak Danish. That is why we say that the blacklist exercise is better at international level, even though I acknowledge that Mr. Christian Juhl is right: we do not get all the countries with or get exactly the criteria that we want and that we fight for with Danish glasses.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161616	Thank you. Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161617	We can have a long talk about that, but when Oxfam published a list in 2017, IFU directed the first step. Then they said, "Well, it doesn't matter what list it is." We know that British Virgin Islands are one of the heavyweights, but this time they did not do so because they are not on any list, which is an EU list or an OECD list, and these are the only ones to be referred to. You can also refer to other lists. Everyone knows that the British Virgin Islands are the heavyweight, the absolute heavyweight. They have emerged in all the scandals that have been in the last five years, including that, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard mentioned. That is why it is absolutely insane that a political list from the European Union means more than a neutral rated list from an NGO it just means nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161708	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161709	But I do not know whether I agree that it means nothing, because it means a great deal to the political debate. I think it might be to tighten it up when you say that a list adopted in the EU 'yes' in a political compromise should be more inflamed or less independent than a list made by an interest organisation. I do not know whether, in general terms, we can support that. However, the challenge is that we must continue to work to improve the EU list, on the one hand, and the countries in the spotlight in the European Union, on the other hand, to encourage and be pressured to actually improve and correct. Because the exercise isn't about making them disappear, because we can't make them do that, the exercise is about getting them to follow the rules they have to follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161758	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111161813	Thank you for the floor. The resolution is, after all, a partial re-submission of B 34 from 2019, so it is such a recurring event. On the Left side, there is very good satisfaction that the present government agrees with the then government to say roughly the same thing about B 14, as was said by the then government about B 34, and when now, in three years' time, a B 94 and, of course, we are in government again, we will say roughly the same thing again. So it is such a recurring event that we must be over, if I may say so. But it must also be treated with respect, because there are always some changes, of course, in this field., It was in 2019, it is still gone, and it is likely to be forward-looking as well. Why? Well, because it's really good to be with other countries when you want to do something effective, and the right places to do it is because although this proposal may seem so very sympathetic, that is, where you can say that we should take the lead ourselves in dealing with it, we really can't move very much without having others with us. So the thing about being sympathetic and progressive in relation to such a proposal does in fact just the opposite, namely that we get nowhere by ourselves. We must go through the OECD and the EU in earnest to have something to say. That is why, of course, we also need to be aware of what is happening in this context, and that is why it may not be so crazy that we talk about this every once in a while. Because something could happen that made us want to form a new opinion at a later stage, and that is why it is good to have a discussion on this. So instead of doing so alone, we could go together with the OECD countries, a total of 136 countries that are currently agreed on, for example. to create a common corporate tax rate of 15%. That is the way one moves; one does not move by saying that we must do it all ourselves. I think Enhedslisten can see that too. It is therefore also important to strengthen the EU blacklist with the addition of new criteria and more ambitious and offensive measures. That is how far we want to go, it just needs to be done through the European Union and through the OECD. Fortunately, this is what I hear from the Minister of Taxation and, as Mr. Jens Joel, rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, says that things have changed through these institutions too, because there is a more broad orientation to shifting opinion on tax havens. So it has become even more right to do it through those institutions. Well, we on the Left are still opposed to the proposal that Enhedslisten has made. And I have to say from Conservatives that they are also opposed to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111162324	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111162325	Thank you so much. The reason we are resubmitting the proposal under the new government is, of course, that we were hoping for a little more wind from the new government. Then there isn't. We have to make that clear. But this is also due to the fact that the number of tax havens on the EU's blacklist has fallen since we last discussed it, and then you could have the hope that it is because there are fewer tax havens • we remember the discussion in the European Committee on Turkey, for example. That is why we are putting it forward again. There we are more in agreement with the government than with the Left on the need for independent Danish initiatives. I do not think the rapporteur of the Left has much room for this. But I would like to take this opportunity to ask another question: does the Left think that it is okay that in October 2021 the Danish Government, without asking for a mandate in the Council of Ministers, approved the removal of Seychelles from the EU blacklist? It was, by the way, a few days after they appeared in those Pandora Papers as one of the great tax havens in the world. Does the Left think that's okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111162443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111162445	It is always the case that when you see that there are fewer countries on a blacklist, you can ask whether it is good or bad. As a starting point, we should preferably go where there are no countries on the EU's blacklist. So somewhere, when you believe in the institutions of my world, it is an expression that we are heading in the right direction. At the same time, I would like to say that there are some things I also mentioned in my speech that are moving in the other direction, namely that there is more speculation and more crime. That is why we need to be better at seeking out and preventing it. If it is the case that the Seychelles have just been better at covering up these things and have been removed from that list because they have just become better at covering up that they are actually doing something that is wrong, they have to get back on the list, and then we have to work for it through the European Union. But if the opposite is the case, then it is a good thing, because then they have moved in the right direction. You have to ask that question to the government. I think that is a very good question, and I would actually like to share that in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111162604	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111162605	Okay, but now that we agree that we must of course also work on this through the EU and that it is so important for Danish interests, does the Left agree that the question of who should be placed on the EU blacklist and who should be taken off the EU blacklist is actually something that should be raised in the European Committee for the purposes of mandate? It is not just something the government can decide, as they do, for example. Did with the Seychelles.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111162626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111162628	If we take the mandate in the Committee on European Affairs, I think that there is really a broad atmosphere for reform of the way in which mandates are given throughout the Parliament. This could be a part where they said: OK, it's actually a little thin, as the government acts in relation to the decisions taken on behalf of Denmark. So I think we should address this in the reform group.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111162659	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111162700	I would like to hear the rapporteur from the Left whether he thinks it is quite okay for a Danish-owned fund to use the Virgin Islands to transform development aid into Myanmar. The Virgin Islands are the largest tax havens we know. Every other Panama Papers case, that is, the shell companies that were revealed, were registered on the British Virgin Islands. In the money laundering scandal at Danske Bank, which the rapporteur probably knows, it turned out that a large part of the customer group in the Estonian branch was registered in the Virgin Islands. In FinCEN-Files, which is not known by many, but it is the American counterpart to the Danske Bank scandal, was one in five reports of suspicious transactions by British Virgin Islands companies. What is the reason why Danish development aid should go this way? And does the rapporteur think that is quite okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111162809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111162811	So, first of all, I think that this question should be put in writing to the government. Enhedslisten will have to make sure of that. If Enhedslisten doesn't do it alone, I'd love to be a part of the question. Secondly, I would like to say that there is this hiking that I was also trying to explain to Mr. Søren Søndergaard. On the one hand, more is being done and, on the other hand, more speculation has been made. There's been a major crime around these tax havens. When there is movement both one way and the other, then we have to check whether it is something that has improved or whether it is something that has deteriorated. I have no idea whether the British Virgin Islands have gone one way or the other. However, if things have got worse, I think we should certainly do something more with regard to the state institutions as well. Of course, we cannot be a part of that. But that's what we're gonna have to find out first. Has it gone one way, or has it gone the other way?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111162921	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111162923	After all, I have been taught for an hour what my government thinks up in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and I have just received confirmation from the Minister down here. Then I don't have to ask you again. I was just interested in whether there was a difference between the views of the Left and the Social Democrats on these things. I am constantly told that it is not on the EU list. No, it is not, because it is a politically determined list which must take account of all sorts of strange countries. And then you get rid of those who have the greatest chance of exerting pressure. That brings us to this situation. Everyone knows that the British Virgin Islands are very bad on this issue. Why do we have to keep discussing this? This can be read in newspapers, in books, in reports and also in the scandal stories that have been revealed. Why should we continue to ask questions and examine it when we know it? Then we must get them on a Danish list or in a Danish political decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111163014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111163015	This is exactly the last thing that we disagree with Enhedslisten in and with which we agree with the government. This has to be done through the OECD and the EU. This should not be done in the form of a national list. It's inefficient to do it like that. The best thing is to do it with others. And yes, it actually means that sometimes you have to be convinced by others that they may know something you don't know or that you have to compromise on some things you wouldn't have compromised with. But on the other hand, we also have the opportunity to really move something from time to time on this agenda that we would otherwise not be able to move on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111163056	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111163121	Thank you. As I said, this motion for a resolution is a re-submission of an earlier motion for a resolution or a partial re-submission; I did not see so many differences from the old one, so I just call it a re-submission. It is about imposing on the government a national blacklist of tax havens, and today we already have an international blacklist, or rather the EU has a blacklist. But there are only nine countries on it and, as the debate has shown, it is, to put it mildly, a rather thin list, because many of the places that we actually consider to be large tax havens have miraculously avoided coming on this list or they have at least come off it again. So the premise put forward by the Enhedslisten, which I agree with, and which is the reason for this, is that the EU blacklist is simply too thin, that it is too easy to get off the list and that there are too few countries on it. And we have that attitude, and I think we share it with the authors of the motion, that it is simply too easy to get out of it and that instead it should be easier to get on it. I mean, you have to get a look at this list and find out that the countries that are actually considered tax havens should also be on a tax havens. The list we have today is almost worthless. I also think it's too easy to get on this watch list. In other words, it is a good thing that people move and want to play with them. Moreover, I have not heard that Enhedslisten thinks otherwise, but one could understand that when one heard the previous speakers, that is, that one thought it was either-or. But I haven't read it that way, I can secure the Enhedslisten. I think it is quite clear that the EU blacklist is too weak, and I think it is quite good that a Danish list should be proposed not as a either-or, because I think we all agree that the EU list is better, but as a supplement, and I think that is actually quite positive. I also think that we should not just look at the European Union, because, like the Left, I would say that the OECD is, as such, an even better body to use to combat tax havens. Well, let's use that organ even more. That's what you do with the new deal you just made. But, as I said, I do not think that one excludes the other. It is not an either-or-or-isn't an EU list or a Danish list. In fact, I think it could be quite positive that we had both. I have certainly listened to several municipalities, for example. would like some more tools for how they could avoid trading with companies that had at home in tax havens or used quite aggressive tax structures to save money to cheat, for example. the Danish Treasury or other Treasury. There I think a national list, which is more offensive, could be good for municipalities, government agencies or others who could use that tool and say: we do not really want to trade with this company, because we want to trade with someone who has clean flour in the bag. And you cannot use that list if you look at the EU list. So I think it would be quite a good addition to making a Danish list not as a substitute, as I said, because I understand that there is that misunderstanding, but as a good addition, as I have also noted in the resolution. So the Danish People's Party can support this resolution, just as we also voted in favour of the last time we had this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111163429	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber, apart from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, who is Mr Cabezón Alonso. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111163458	Thank you. Every year, Denmark misses billions of dollars to the Treasury because of companies and wealthy people hiding their money in tax havens. As part of the project, researchers have calculated that Denmark loses around 8 billion each year. kr. in tax revenues, only because multinational companies store their profits in tax havens. That's 13 percent. of all Denmark's income on corporation tax. That's a lot of money. It is money that could have been used to improve conditions in the care of the elderly, for more nurses in hospitals, more staff in hospitals or to speed up the green transition, where we desperately lack action and money. Most of us are probably thinking of some exotic island in the Caribbean when chatter falls on tax havens, but some of the world's worst tax havens are actually located in the European Union, especially in countries such as Luxembourg, known from the Luxembourg Fint • Holland and Ireland are being diligently used by the multinationals to evade tax. Almost 90%. Thus, the tax revenue lost by Denmark, because multinational companies are hiding their money in tax havens, is stored in tax havens in the EU. This is partly due to the fact that the free movement of capital within the EU internal market has made it easy for companies to move their profits to countries where taxation is low or close to zero. It has created a race against the bottom when it comes to corporate tax in the EU, where countries are forced to lower corporate tax in order to avoid corporate relocation and capital flight. The figures speak their clear language: since mid-1990, the average EU corporation tax rate has fallen from over 35%. 21 per cent. in 2021. Unfortunately, efforts in the European Union to deal with the problem of tax havens have been totally inadequate. Behind closed doors, hidden from the spotlight of the press and the public, the European Union has drawn up a blacklist of tax havens in the so-called corporate tax group. The list is in many ways thin. To quote tax worker Christian Hallum from Oxfam IBIS: The EU's list has unfortunately become a bit of a joke and it is close to useless. There is really no question of any of the important tax havens left on the list, and the EU's own tax havens have never been in danger of being on the list. There are several reasons why the EU list has developed in this way. The first choice was to exclude EU countries from the list at all. That is probably why known tax havens, such as Luxembourg, Ireland, cannot be found on the list, and this is partly because all 27 EU countries must agree on the criteria to be included in the list. At the same time, the criteria for entering the blacklist are very vague. For example: a country may have a corporation tax of 0 per cent. Without getting on the blacklist What is worse, the EU has subsequently also chosen to exonerate a number of tax havens after they have been on the list, for example. known tax havens such as Barbados, Bahamas, Bermuda, Cayman Island have been removed from the list. At the latest update in October 2021, the EU decided to remove, inter alia: the archipelago of Seychelles with the support of the Danish Government and therefore with the support of the Social Democratic Party. This happened only a few days after the Seychelles appeared from a large international tax leak Pandora Papers who revealed how people use tax havens to evade to pay taxes. Today, there are awful nine countries on the EU blacklist, most of which are close to indifference in the fight against tax havens with Panama as the only positive exception. Not one of the world's ten largest tax havens is, according to the Tax Justice Network, to be found on the EU blacklist. When the Danish Parliament voted on a similar proposal from the Enhedslisten in 2019, a number of parties voted against, referring to the fact that the EU list was the way forward. Since then, the list has only become smaller. In March 2019, when we voted on the Enhedslisten resolution, there were 15 countries on the EU blacklist; today we are down to 9 countries. It is going the wrong way unless you think that there have been fewer tax havens in the world. If we are to put an end to tax havens, countries like Denmark need to take the lead. That is why we are tabling this motion for a resolution that Denmark should make its own much more ambitious blacklist of tax havens, which should include all tax havens. Specifically, we propose that we start drawing up a list which, in addition to the criteria that apply to the EU blacklist, also includes tax havens in the EU and countries with a tax rate of less than 9, as at present. is the lowest rate in the EU it has Hungary. Many EU countries already have a national blacklist, so what we are proposing is not such rocket science. Many countries already have a national blacklist; lists which, as an EU country, go beyond EU lists. The tax minister has described this in a reply to the Danish Parliament. Just to mention some of the countries: Belgium, France, Greece, Portugal and Spain. Denmark can therefore also make such a list. And I understand the question, as Mr. Jens Joel travelled on resources there we can also draw on the lists of those countries. A Danish list will make it easier and more transparent to get, for example. pension companies, public institutions, including municipalities and regions and private individuals to opt out of companies in tax havens. It's not that easy to figure out today. It is the hope of the proposers that the measure should be adopted, among other things. will help remedy the fact that 16 out of 17 Danish pension companies invest in tax havens. At the same time, on the basis of the list, the Folketing will be able to impose sanctions on companies in tax havens, for example. by excluding tax havens from public procurement. But it is something that comes after; it is not something that lies in this proposal. In this proposal, it is simply a matter of preparing a list that can complement the totally inadequate list that the European Union has. I thank you for the debate we have had. There aren't many to thank for the support... unfortunately, but thank you very much to the Danish People's Party, and thank you very much to the SF. Some may now say that the SF has not had the floor, but that is because they have been prevented from being present and have asked me to say that they support the proposal. Of course, we appreciate that, so I am happy to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164341	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164347	Thank you. I should like to begin by apologizing to Mr Seligman. Søren Søndergaard, that I didn't get into the room, but it's a little difficult, when you only have a mandate, to be in several places at once. I must be honest and say straight away that we will hardly be supporting the proposal, because I think it is actually counterproductive, but it does have many right thoughts. Something's calling for a question. After all, we are some who have been trying for many, many years to fight for a common tax base in the European Union, not tax collection, but a common tax base. I really have some doubts about where Enhedslisten is on this issue, because in my optics this is the prerequisite for everything we are talking about here to give real meaning to the fight against tax havens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164445	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164447	As long as there is a minimum regulation. You make the tax base on the basis that that's what people have to recognise, that's what all countries have to recognise, that's the level that has to be. If it is done in this way, we can support it, because it is based on the fact that all countries support it, and that tax regulation is something that must be adopted unanimously. This will, of course, also require countries to have the opportunity to increase the tax base, so to speak, in their own country, but if that is possible, it is only an advantage.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164533	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164535	I think that is a good answer and thank you for that. Yeah, of course it has to be that way. We are talking about a bottom that we must lay down for the level of taxation, but that also requires something, because this is not just about some minimum regulation. A tax base is a difficult thing, because we have such different taxation systems in the European Community, and that is why I was a little interested in it, because we have a Enhedslisten which has a very critical relationship with the European Community, but here it might perhaps be possible to form a common front with the Enhedslisten in the establishment of such a one, because then it goes from the Left, which also in the past, that is to say, I know at least, has fought for a common tax base and then to the Enhedslisten. I think that's beautiful.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164625	However, if, as we were during the previous debate, we are to be completely honest, it is quite crazy to say that from the floor of Parliament's Chair of the House we are keeping the tradition from the last point we had, it can be said that it is quite frankly also that we cannot wait for that agreement to be reached precisely because we have very different tax systems, and because there will always, or at least for a long time, be someone who says that for one reason or another they cannot participate in it. So it is fine to work for it, but I do not think we can wait to do anything until then.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164705	Thank you. Then it's mr. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164708	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Søren Søndergaard for us to continue the dialogue in which we had the opposite roles just now, and that is where we referred to the Seychelles. So I would like to hear one thing from the rapporteur. It is true that the Seychelles have been removed from this list, but does the rapporteur know why they were removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164733	No. Well, all I know is that it happened, while there were these very extensive leaks which showed that they were still part of tax arrangements and served as tax havens. So I don't know, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164753	Sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164754	Well, that happens, I can tell you because there's a movement. I mean, it's not a coincidence when you make such conclusions about taking countries in and out. Then it's because there's been a movement. And exactly in relation to the Seychelles, together with three other countries, it was because we wanted to look at things a little more closely. And that is why they are on a list where you actually want to look at things a little bit more before you put them on a blacklist, but they can easily get back on the blacklist. After all, this is the way the European Union effectively uses this list to get individual countries to move.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164832	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164834	This is of course interesting, because this discussion has also taken place in the Committee on European Affairs in relation to other countries: whether the effective tool is that when countries have actually made some improvements, they are removed from the blacklist or you have them on such an observation list. Then they can say that now they want to do something, and then they're on the watch list. Then you can threaten them with the blacklist, and then they can make some more promises that are not being fulfilled, etc. I mean, it's a question of what's most appropriate. After all, we had a very specific discussion about Turkey, and I would like to say that my assessment on the basis of everything we heard from the closed rooms because they are closed and there are no papers and minutes coming out is that it was for political reasons because there were some who had a certain attitude to where Turkey should stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164926	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Søren Søndergaard. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164941	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111164958	Thank you. This is, of course, one of my favourite agendas, so it is one of those we really have in common, and so I would like to thank you very much to the Left and, above all, Mr. Stén Knuth to keep holding on to this area. I would also like to say, however, that although this could be a theme we discussed on a weekly basis, it would be a bit of a pity for the schools if we were to come up with new tools on a weekly basis before we had seen whether those tools from the week before actually worked. Therefore, I would like to announce that no matter how many times you take this up, I would very much like to take up the debate on it, because I think it is important, and I think that the more time we debate it, the more it will spread where you have not yet reached the goal of moving into school day, so that you get on with it. So I think that the debates themselves are important, I would like to say, but that does not mean that every time we take the debate, we come up with a new tool that they will then have to deliver in schools, because I believe in the fact that the tools we have taken a stand on are working. It is the case that next week we will also have a question debate, announced by the Left, on the legal requirement for the 45 minutes of movement, and there will probably be some points that go back, but, as I said, I actually think it is an independent point to keep having a public debate on it. So far, so good, so let's just keep doing that. It is generally the case in the school sector that, although some people in this Parliament would like to see legislation made and so everything with a fingertips would be as they had decided in here, I can tell that it is not so. This is actually one of the things I think is one of the incredibly attenuating circumstances of teaching in Denmark, namely that you do the things that you think are reasonable as well as you can. This has always been the case with the school sector in Denmark, and it is, in my view, an incredibly positive kind of independent thinking that I think our children and young people benefit from their teachers. But it also gives rise to the frustration that if the teachers do not think what has been adopted is sensible, then it is not necessarily the case that they do as they are told, and it can then create a certain frustration in Parliament and, above all, sometimes also in the Minister's office. But that is fortunately, and it also means that we have a foundation for critical thinking and independence and all the sorts of things we pride ourselves on being good at in Denmark, then the students get not from strangers, but from their teachers, who are also able to do the same. That is why it is not the case that we can decide that there should be 45 minutes of movement at school, and then you just do it in schools, and that means that we must be very good at arguing for it. So, even if we have introduced the legislation so that they actually have to do it and we can tell them on a regular basis that they have to do it, it also requires us to do the legwork that needs to be done in order to actually convince the teachers that this is a very good idea, which is why public debates are important, and that is both with the question debate and with the debate that is here today. At any rate, in every possible context, I would argue and try to convince as many people as I can that it is really a good idea to get movement into teaching. It is not, of course, because the minute requirement in itself is a goal, because it is certainly not, but the intention that movement should be an integral part of school's everyday life and that pupils should move every day is important, and it is because pupils thrive better on it. And we have been able to see that there are still a number of schools and teachers who, despite the very clear legislative requirements laid down in the primary school law on the average 45 minutes of movement per day, have not come true everywhere, far from it. As a government, we are very concerned about increasing the freedom of schools around Denmark, and I am so pleased with the movement requirement that it will be one of the last parts of the legislation that I let fall, so we all have such lists of what the first of the demands we let fall are. People have different lists here in the Folketing. For some, the first thing they gave freedom from would be the national tests, because they have always loved to hate them, while for others it is something else that stands at the top. As far as I am concerned, when all other parties have agreed to remove all other regulations, we reach the 45-minute requirement in relation to movement. In this debate on freedom there is, in fact, a discussion about new public management, and fortunately we are all beginning to realise that this must be the end of it. The demand for 45 minutes is so much the reminiscent of precisely that, i.e. a desire to run retail on individual elements of the primary school, I fully acknowledge that, and so it can be said that the whole discussion about having a legal 45 minute movement is paradoxical in relation to the discussion we have about freedom of the primary schools. I shall be the first to acknowledge that. I hope that all schools will work to ensure that pupils move more in school day, and that is, of course, because I believe that movement is inextricably linked to the fact that schools and school everyday life for a lot of people become easier, better, something they look forward to more, and indeed something they get more out of also professionally. We know that there is a positive connection between movement and learning and well-being and health, and that is precisely why for some of us it is so crucial that, although it is a slightly old-fashioned way of running school and smells far away by new public management, we keep incredibly tight on this exact requirement. As you know, the Prime Minister announced in his New Year's speech that there should be an opportunity for several municipalities to come in and have the opportunity for the welfare agreements we have made so far in the school area with Holbæk and Esbjerg Municipalities, and everyone knows that this is not a fence stake in this context, and that is to say that the reality is not going to overtake this motion for a resolution within, understood in the sense that I find it difficult to see the municipalities for me where one does not want to take a positive view of one's school system being included in the welfare agreements. But we'll see about that. It is certainly my hope, and in this context it will mean that you will no longer be subject to this requirement, but will be given a great deal of freedom to plan your school day. In this context, one should not be mistaken for the fact that I will use the megaphone I have and the tools I have to argue that movement must be part of the day of school. Fortunately, there is a great deal in addition to the legislation that we can do when we want to convince someone of the wisdom of something, and some of it is, of course, contained in some of the initiatives we have taken together to promote this agenda, and I think that these things should also continue out of there, because I think it is extremely important to move during the day when we receive education. First of all, we have increased the subsidy for Danish school sport, which is fighting a brave battle in this area and is doing very well. They have established a practice centre which is working to ensure the implementation of the employment requirement through skills development in the municipalities. It is just to say that I actually believe very much in the element of what we have done together, and therefore I do not believe very much that we have to do something over and over again just to act decisively. I think we should not do that, and I think we should let this work, because I think it works, and we should lean on the right good things like Danish school sports, which we have put in place, because we believe that Danish school sport can move on this. Movement is still away a new professionalism. Although it may seem a little long since we have decided on this, it is a new professionalism that needs to be considered in school everyday life, and therefore it does not just come from one day to the next. This requires a practical development of competence, and that is exactly what we have taken the initiative on, and that is why I think we should give time for it to work, instead of taking a new initiative, on a new initiative. Then we have also launched the initiative of the movement managers, where all professional colleges, in collaboration with the Ministry of Children and Education, support local development in schools and municipalities, so that movement becomes a meaningful part of the teaching in schools. The movers are aimed both at administrations, at school management, at teachers and at educators, and the municipalities that do not participate in the movements can access digital learning courses on how to implement movement in the course of the course free of charge. I also have a meeting in my calendar with DIF, DGI and Danish School Sport, where we will discuss the status of implementation, and we will of course follow developments in the use of movement in the primary school panel. Last but not least, I will also write to the municipalities in the near future reminding them of this legal requirement and that it must be complied with, because it is not really a choice, but a requirement that the 45-minute movement be complied with. It is just to say that I think that most of these tools, such as attempts at freedom or not attempts at freedom, must continue, because I think that the same thing remains, that is a good idea, and that is the way you work when you do not run retail. But we are going to have a little interesting discussion, I would like to say. Now it has been the Left and the Social Democratic Party in particular that stood very hard on legal requirements, and we will then have an interesting discussion about this in connection with the attempts at freedom at primary school, but I would say from here at least that when all other parties have stretched arms on their respective demands, we can start discussing it here too. But to me it is one of the really important things, because it means so much, sorry, it means an incredibly great amount to a large group of children, both for their professional learning and, incidentally, for their well-being, to move in connection with their school work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111165953	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111165957	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech to the Minister. After all, the minister addresses an interesting issue, an interesting dilemma. On the one hand, people want to give schools more freedom and less new public management; on the other hand, they want to maintain the movement requirement, and then freedom must give way, new public management prevails, because the requirement for movement must be maintained. After all, we now have almost 10 years of experience, at least a number of years of experience with the reform of primary school, where there is this movement requirement, and this has not led to better learning or better well-being. On the contrary, the prosperity has fallen, learning has fallen, and in a number of other areas reform has also failed. The interesting thing is that we have tried, in experimental terms, to go the other way with more freedom. There are the free municipalities, as the Minister himself mentions, and there are actually free schools, which are to some extent also exempt from this movement requirement. I just want to know if the minister knows what happened in these free municipalities in the free schools. Is it the case that the prosperity has fallen further and that there is no movement in the free schools in these free municipalities, or has it actually been shown that giving schools more freedom does not lead to much less movement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170109	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170110	So, we know from research that there is a connection there in terms of being physically active. There is a great deal in the reform of the primary school which has obviously not met the objectives of it at all, but exactly in relation to what is about movement, one can actually isolate it and see that there is, in terms of research, a connection between moving and thriving. That's why I'm saying it's the last thing I'm gonna let fall. But in relation to the other part of what you are saying, which is about what becomes important, new public management or this requirement, I just have to say that for me and for the government, it is so that when we have chosen to play out that schools across a broad circle in Denmark should be able to join the attempt to free themselves, then this is going to fall if the municipalities want to. That means that what is most important to us is freedom, and that means that the requirement for movement is not a fence stake in the current welfare agreements with de Holbæk and Esbjerg. This is what we have agreed to, and it will also be our presentation in relation to the proposal we are making in relation to the rest of the municipalities. If there is support for this, the freedom will be highest, and I think that is right, and then we must use the other tools in the toolbox to convince that movement is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170221	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170223	All right, I misunderstood. Thank you for the clarification, because the only such relevant objection to removing the movement requirement is that the pupils do not move enough, but is it anything from the real world, from the existing free municipalities or free schools, which suggests that by not having a legal requirement for movement, the pupils do not have enough movement? I do not know whether this was the case in the Minister's own school hours before there was a movement requirement that the Minister did not move as a child, because if that is not the case, it is just a superfluous requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170254	I mean, the minister moved so much in the classroom that it often ended up sitting outside the door. So it was not such an organized part of the teaching, but rather an expression of not really being so good at sitting still in the teaching. I don't think we should bring that here. Yes, there is a connection between the requirement being introduced and the fact that there has been more movement in the primary school. I do not have any figures as to how this applies in the free schools. But the exact movement requirement has actually meant that more movement has entered the schools. There is a very long way to go that it has meant something in all schools, and that is what I mean by that there is a tendency to do what you think is wise in terms of the agreements we make in here. But yes, there is actually that connection. I think, however, that we can go far beyond this legal requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170336	Then it's mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170336-2	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech, and thank you for the cooperation and the many conversations we have had about what we are also passionate about here, namely movement in primary school. I'd like to address some of that, sir. Alex Vanopslagh also replicated, precisely the dilemma that lies in both sticking to a requirement, but also giving freedom. The Minister also mentions a great deal of action that has been taken in relation to the need for us to have more movement into primary school. What, then, are the tools that the Minister will use if it is that it does not succeed? After all, some of the tools mentioned by the Minister have been in play for a very, very many years, and we still have a remnant of schools where young people do not move. This movement thing is good for body and mind, so we don't disagree with all that. But what are the tools that the Minister is thinking about? And if it isn't because we have to press KL or run around saying this is important, what are some tools the Minister wants to use?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170442	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170443	This is simply at the heart of the discussion we are going to have and will have to have with each other, and therefore it is actually very good to have this as an example, because it is something that makes avs on me. It is always easier to remove rules when it is something that makes avs on some others. Exactly this movement thing is making me feel better. If we believe that there should be freedom to organise school education in the best possible way in schools in Denmark, we also have to say that it is not up to us to make the rules when it does avs on ourselves. That is why I replied so clearly to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh, that it means to me that freedom will be beyond my own desire to move into school, and then I will have to use the other tools we have. And one of the things that has not been applied before the legislation came is, for example, the fact that we have not been able to do so. to build up a competence centre to develop movement as part of the teaching. When this requirement was introduced at the time, there was unbelievably little about how one could actually doactically apply movement in the subjects across the subjects. That is one of the things that has been developed after the demand has arrived, and we can continue to do so. I think we can actually ask what is the most effective: is it the work that is being done, is it the legislation itself or is it the work that came with the legislation? Actually, I think it's the last of it. I would therefore hope that it is the case that we will continue with the latter, even if the legal requirement is removed, and thus continue to set aside the funding for Danish School Sport and the other initiatives that we have launched.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170607	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170607-2	Thank you. In fact, the proposal here lays precisely the freedom for the individual school to draw up a strategy based on the physical framework of the school, together with the composition of teachers, educators and pupils. There's just a freedom to build this from the bottom up. National strategies are not new. We have a national strategy for artificial intelligence, a national strategy for personal medicine, for rare diseases, for loneliness. So it is not a tool that is new, but that can actually create a framework in here from the Folketing of where we say: It is important; it is written in the law; you must have created a strategy at being individual school. I would like a few comments on that, Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170701	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170702	These are a few who have heard me say incredibly many times: it is so rare that I do not think that a national strategy is just a politician's expression of a paper tiger or at least what turns into a paper tiger. I admit that sometimes a national strategy is a good idea, but I have seen it rarely. Otherwise, to the best of my knowledge, it is a blow to the air. I myself think I have made countless suggestions about the same thing during my time at Christiansborg, so it is not to point the finger at anyone. I see it as a paper tiger. So I am actually much more prepared to listen to the extremely good proposals I have heard from the Left and which are some of the ones I have mentioned here in relation to, for example. Danish School Sports. I'm open to suggestions, but national action plans and national strategies and blah sounds like a lot of djøf-times that never come into existence in the real world if I'm gonna come up with all my prejudices about that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170752	Thank you. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170755	Then it is very good that I come on now, because we have a discussion in a different context. First of all, thank you, because I can hear the Minister take this agenda really, really seriously, that is to say that it is really a matter of heart. It is also for me and for the Free Greens, i.e. how we get the very best learning environment for all our pods out there, who learn in different ways. Some learn through the head and others learn through the body and hand. Not least, I think this debate is interesting from the point of view of such a debate, and what I'm getting into may be a little dangerous: that there are real, a lot of boys sitting out there who have gunpowder in my ass and have a fire in my ass and have difficulty simply being calm physically for as long a period as a course of instruction sometimes is. So I would like to hear how the Minister thinks from such a gender perspective, if one dares to move into that area at all, it connects with this agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111170902	If so, we will certainly have to do exactly what young people are saying today in terms of gender and identity, namely to define for ourselves what sex we then belong to, right? Because there are also a large group of girls for whom sitting still for a whole day is quite awful. I think you're right about the fact that there's a majority of boys. If we set up how many people are bored by sitting still for a whole day, there will certainly be 55%. boys and 45%. Girls in the group who are bored with it; I think that is actually true. But it is a long debate on gender policy. I would say that when it is a matter of heart to me, it is also because our concept of education has simply been narrowed down. We have very little practical education in primary school. This is also true of the movement, and it is, in fact, a continuation of what Mr. Uffe Elbæk says that we learn in different ways. In fact, I believe that our concept of education must be a little broader, and I hear that also lies in what the questioner says. This applies both to the creative, i.e. to the musical and the practical, understood as robotics or sledgehammers to take two extremes, and then, of course, to the movement, i.e. to the fact that the world is concrete and physical and something you relate to in other ways than sitting and reading in a book. It's missing in our primary school, so this movement thing is really putting me on my mind, along with everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171020	Thank you. Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171021	My final question is this: I am really curious about what the Minister said about future meetings with, among others. The DGI and the DIF and other sports organisations, for could the Association Denmark, I had almost said, the local associations, perhaps not be one of the keys to actually making the skills that might be needed in the public schools?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171049	They are just a lot of places. I mean, a lot of places have been set up to work very well in order to get movement into school day, and elsewhere you don't have it at all. And on the one hand, I love the diversity of primary school. I believe that it helps create creativity, independent thinking, critical sense and all sorts of other virtues that our society needs, that it is so diverse, and that it is not just at 2 o'clock. 8.15 can look up chapter 3, because then they all teach in that chapter in Danish in the 5th classes in Denmark. On the other hand, it also presents the challenge that, yes, you have cooperation in some places, but elsewhere you do not have it, and there I think we should be good at showing the good example so that you can be inspired by each other's ways of doing it. But even then, I would think that some will do one thing, and then there will be some others who say that they have found a better model, and so I think that is good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171138	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171140	I would like to continue where the Liberal Alliance left off by saying that we in the Radical Left are not so sure that this thing about having a minute goal is necessarily the smartest thing. I think we are making a very healthy move away from the fact that everything we want to become some specific rules, some new projects or something that comes up, and I think we should get to the point where it grows out of the professions. That is why I would like to ask the Minister: is it not really the common objective which is the most important key here, that is to say, to get rid of some very tight objectives for teaching and, on the other hand, to unfold the purpose and working methods of the professions?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171219	I am quite convinced that we have to go in and look at this, because in reality the minute and the way in which the common goals are linked today are both cut out of the same piece of wood, namely a thinking in which we want to run in detail, i.e. new public management thinking splashed out over the primary school, which, in my opinion, does not benefit from it. So I also believe that this is one of the things we need to get upside down. Then, compared to the minute count, I would say that I feel the same way as I do about gender quotas. In fact, I love to hate gender quotas, because I can't imagine anything worse than being elected alone because of my sex • that would seem an insult to me. Then it might be that, speaking of the previous debate that we had, we had to go back to the fact that one has to choose one's own gender, but when I still agree with it in a lot of contexts, it is because it can be a fantastic good rubble, that is, a necessary evil, for a period of time. And I think that the minute count has been a necessary evil when it comes to getting a debate started and making a change in some professional practice in primary school. So I'm not really sorry we did it. There may be other rules and common goals, which I think may well have become a reality, but I do not feel the same regret over the minute, because I think it was an important break of walls. On the other hand, I believe that this must eventually end, and that is where I believe that the negotiations on the welfare agreements can be a very good opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171336	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171337	I would also hate to be elected on the basis of my sex, but that hardly happens at all in these times. I have a wife who has become chairman of children and education in the City of Viborg, also under a mayor of the Left. This mayor of the left, Ulrik Wilbek, has taken 64 strategies from the time when I was on the town council, and has poured them out with the bathing water, because nobody reads all those strategies; nobody knows them, they're not under the skin. And then he has set four political values instead. People know them, you can point them at them, and it gives some compass, but at the same time it also gives some freedom. What does the Minister think of that approach? Now we are talking specifically about primary school here, and I am happy when I hear the Minister talking about freedom, but I also get worried when we cannot know which fence posts the Minister will put, because then we can have many fence posts in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171500	There will undoubtedly be a good debate on this. I very much like the idea of removing 64 strategies, because it also sounds to me like a total waste of time, and I wish you could count how many people have ever clicked in and read those papers. I also bet that it has been a waste of time to develop them, because half of the employees could have dealt with something better than sitting and developing strategies that were never read. It is not to say that strategies do not sometimes work, because they do, but my experience is that too much is being done in the public sector, so I think that part is wise. In relation to the fence posts, I would like to say that it is clear that I think that the agreements made on Holbæk and Esbjerg are sensible, otherwise we would not have put votes to them by the government, which is why it is not as far away from what we would have liked, but we have not finished discussing it yet. The fence posts we are talking about are, for example, that we are talking about. It is extremely important that it is still free to go to primary school. You might laugh at that a little, but if we remove the entire primary school law, it's kind of one of the things that smokes. So we think it is important that it remains free to go to primary school. It is, for example. not in free schools, so it is important that there is a free school offer. It is important to distribute the pupils in the municipalities. Today you have school districts, and you can do that in several ways, but it is important that it is a municipal task. There are different fence posts, and we will discuss this with each other again when we report something about what the total amount should be. But it is not very far from the welfare agreements that have already been concluded, otherwise we would not have made them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171618	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171620	No, of course we cannot abolish the primary school law, and certainly not section 1 of the primary school law, which you can run well on the basis of. Of course it is going to be a major discussion, but what is so little of my concern is that we have a minister who says anyway: we have a primary school with wooden slopes and music, and what do I know? Then we have the Conservative People's Party, which says that our primary school pupils should at least take part in internships in companies once a week; we have myself, the dog said, and the Left European rapporteur, who wants more language teaching into primary school; and we have the Left here, who then says a national strategy for sport, and at the same time everyone stands and says that we must have a shorter school day. I'm having a little trouble seeing how it's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171710	Well, I haven't said anything about a shorter school day. In any case, the rapporteur has completely misunderstood this. I have also heard that there are an incredible number of people who say that. I'm not gonna tell you. It has been a long debate and now we have come so far that a bit has actually been short of it, but I understand very well what the rapporteur thinks. I think we need to get used to a new form of legislation. I myself have baptized that model legislation, and it takes a little longer than such an answer to go into depth with it, but I simply believe that we need to get away from detailed legislation, which means that we are going to eat it, that some of the stick horses are not in the law. On the other hand, I believe that we need to work with model legislation because we can give a lot of direction and do so without having to steer down the detail as we do today, but I need a little more time than I have right now to respond to it before I can unfold it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171758	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. Then we can proceed with the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111171819	Thank you. Not surprisingly, I put myself in the slipstream of my party buddy, the minister. Some say it's career promotion; I don't know if that's actually the case, but that's how we do it here. Of course, I would also like to say a few words about movement and the importance of movement and, in fact, about that rather interesting discussion that we have just had about whether you can also get some of those good elements into school without necessarily steering it down to the detail. First, I want to say something about movement. This is how it is now and has been since we made the reform of primary schools that it is a requirement. There's like nothing to raffle about. That's good, too. It is good for learning, but it is also good for health, and in this way it applies both physical and mental health. As Mr. Uffe Elbæk also said, there are also some whose nerve pathways and physics just need to be touched once in a while, so that they can sort of calm the body and thus also keep the concentration. So there is no doubt that this is an extremely important agenda, and that is why I am also pleased that the Left and Mr. Sten Knuth has raised the discussion repeatedly and among other things. have helped to make some of the agreements, which means that we now have not only a requirement for movement, but also a little significant that we are making it more likely that it will actually become reality. For what is interesting is not what we are doing with legislation, but whether it can actually still be included out there, whether it can actually be put into practice, whether there are some who catch the ball at the other end. There we have, as the Minister has mentioned, and which others have also helped to change agreements, among other things. increased support for Danish School Sport, because some of the people who can be ambassadors, but also role models, can be said, and some of those who instruct and show how to do so. And this project has been done Fagene in Movement, which is really an attempt to look at how to think about movement in different subjects, so that it is not each teacher who has to invent the deep plate every day, and so that we avoid teachers refraining from involving movement in their teaching, because they simply cannot figure out how to approach it. It's easy in some subjects, and it's really hard in other subjects, and we're gonna help each other get better at that. So this is also just saying that movement is extremely important for social democracy. As the Minister said, perhaps it is one of the things we find hardest to do without. But it is clear that the prerequisite for a demand or, for that matter, a wish or recommendation for movement to actually become reality is that we have helped to make them at the other end of this chain of decisions, namely those in schools in classrooms, able to actually integrate it into their everyday lives. We can do something about that, not by drawing up a national strategy, which is a piece of paper, which says something nice about what to do, but by actually doing what one could really say was a national strategy. At least it is national, and it also has a strategic purpose: to make this reality, and that is one of the things we have done together. Therefore, although we do not support the motion for a resolution here, I think that we are doing some of these things in order to support movement from the national level, even if we do not print a plan on glittered paper. So we do not support the motion for a resolution, but we certainly support the intention, and we would very much like to discuss how to ensure that there is more movement in our school.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111172156	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111172222	Thank you, President. Thank you to Mr Left. Mr Stén Knuth, with the motion for a resolution, is proposing to put movement in the primary school on the agenda. It is always interesting to hear what the rapporteurs have to say about this. I know how much sir. Stén Knuth's heart is passionate about movement and sport. However, I am not sure that the proposal for a national strategy is the right way to go. I do not know whether we can reach an agreement in committee on a report at all. If I were to give the Left a good piece of advice, I would probably use this proposal as an opportunity to write out to the Left City Council groups, each of whom can take up the subject in their municipality at a municipal council meeting. Why do I suggest that? I do this because it is the municipal authorities who are responsible for running the primary school, and this is really about operating. So if the Left really thinks that some kind of strategic approach to movement in the primary school is necessary, it would be obvious that it is the individual municipalities that are setting it in motion. After all, we have already adopted a national strategy in 2013 with the reform of primary schools. It is very clear from the law that there must be some kind of movement in the primary school, and it is up to the municipal council to ensure that this happens. I do not think it is our job to draw up a national strategy, as set out in the motion for a resolution. I think the best thing would be for us to trust that the municipal councils are their job to grow up and that they make sure they do what we ask them to do. Each party can help it along the way. That's why I'm actually just suggesting that the Left grab their city council groups and say to them: Try to hear here, there's a big difference between the municipalities, but we think it would be a good idea for each of you to find a strategy for how you want to approach movement in the primary school; we know that it's popular among the pupils, and we also know that it's hugely difficult for teachers to implement it in schools; we also know that the reform of the primary school was a huge interference in the freedom of schools and teachers, among other things. in the field of movement, because it also interferes with teaching. I think that is the best way to do that, rather than from a central point of view doing it. If I may speak a little more generally, I am also a little concerned on behalf of the Left, who has, in the last ten years, become a more and more centralising party, where it was formerly the great decentralisation party. Maybe you should find a way back to the roots. I think it would be good for both the Left and the Folkeskole. I do not know whether we can reach a report in committee. Maybe that would be the best thing. But if I am to be honest, the very best thing would be for the Left to contact its council members around Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111172604	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111172628	Thank you. There is no doubt that movement during school days is important, both for children's learning, health and well-being, and perhaps especially for those who have little difficulty sitting on a chair for longer periods of time. At the same time, we can also ensure in primary school that all children experience the joy of moving and meeting the sport, both in school and in association life, so thank you to the Left for highlighting a very important element in a good school day, but it is actually also important for all of us. Movement is one of the few things in the school reform that we can see still is really positive and has a good effect. When the children are allowed to move during the school day, they benefit the individual child, but they also benefit the community in the class. Therefore, it is important for SF also to stick to the fact that children must experience a varied school day with movement. How do we get there? The 45-minute legal requirement has been in force for many years now, and yet not all schools meet the requirement, it is not in all classes and there is a difference between schooling and schooling. Many teachers and educators say that it is easier to get more movement into the school day of schooling than it is in schooling, just as many teachers and educators say that lack of time for preparation and the many other tasks makes it difficult to get it into the classroom. We know that many teachers and educators want more movement into the school day, but they lack time, skills and support from the management. It is therefore also good that Danish School Sport has been given more money to continue helping and inspiring schools, and we have also launched Fagene in Movement, which is to ensure local capacity building in terms of competence, development and knowledge sharing. At the same time, we in the SF are open to look at what we can with changes in teacher training to ensure that newly trained teachers feel more dressed to think about movement into the teaching and will be able to provide inspiration to the experienced teachers. But we are not sure that the time is right for a national strategy in this area. Both because national initiatives have already been launched and because we believe that the most important thing is local anchoring and freedom. Back in 2020, 41 per cent were assessed. of the schools that the municipality did not play a role in the work on movement. And this indicates that there are more municipalities that can do better than they do today in terms of supporting schools. And we've also seen locally that once they've made those bets, it actually rolls a lot out there. In SF we also believe that children will experience more movement if or when schools gain more freedom. In his New Year's speech, the Prime Minister told us that the government believes that all municipalities should be freed from school. In fact, we find this very exciting and much needed, and we look forward to the discussions with the government and the rest of the parties. The Left has also wanted more freedom in schools, and we think this is not entirely in harmony with several national demands and initiatives, but rather with a greater focus on municipal strategies for movement at school. That is why we do not support the motion for a resolution as such, but we thank the Left and, in particular, Mr Seligman. Stén Knuth for persistent focus on children having a right and need for movement in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111172959	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111173022	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we cannot support this motion for a resolution either, but I would like to start by saying that I am just so glad that we have Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Stén Knuth in the circle of rapporteurs who keep talking about the importance of movement and keep pushing for something more to happen. I think that is a great pleasure and really important, and we must finally continue to do so. As far back as the Blue Report in the early 1960s, school people have been talking about the need to develop the forms of work in school; pupils must feel that they are in meaningful situations. And it just doesn't make any sense that we have such a big division between head and body, because we humans have we learn through our senses, we remember where we are most affected. We're even talking about experiences going under our skin, and we're gonna need a lot more of that in school. That is why I believe that we have a completely bottom-up task together to have a school where it is possible as a student to learn in many different ways, so that sometimes you sit still and have to listen to what the teacher says, and sit with paper and pencil or with your computer and practice it over and over again, but that school day also has to be marked by the fact that you experience things, that you get out, that you move, that you see new things, that you meet other people, that you are disturbed, so that it makes sense when you have to sit and tepe something. The minister said this because we have wonderful independent teachers in the Danish school, so even if politicians think they are adopting something that is very wise, it is not always the case. And I think it might be a little too easy right here if you say it's because the teachers don't want to. Because I meet a great many teachers who really want to create a more varied education, but where it is the framework that is the problem. And that then points back to us as politicians. Because I think that some of the things that stand in the way of movement are the very tight target management, and the demands that were for everything you had to live up to, were pushed further and further down, and that as a teacher you experienced that you were more and more busy, while you have too little time to prepare for the good progress, and that you have therefore felt pressured in some places to do too much portal teaching, which is, after all, extremely monotonous and enormously sedentary, that you just solve the same kind of tasks one by one. So I think we also have a responsibility in here to ensure a framework that allows us to loosen the schools and teachers from the goal management, to give more room for the educational reflection at the school, and to provide a proper framework for preparing the good courses where movement is thought in. That is why it is very important for us in the Radical Left that when we go to this, we have to make a new policy. And I think we've already come a long way. I noted very well that the motion for a resolution from the Left attaches great importance to the fact that this is something that needs to be developed locally, even though it is a national strategy. And I thought that if this resolution had been tabled five years ago, there would probably have been some particular plan or concept, and that shows something about how we are in a really good and important development. But I still think that such a national strategy is something that comes from above or from outside. And I believe that if we really have to move something forward, there is no way around it coming through the subjects, and that is why I am so concerned that we have to develop the common goals so that we get rid of the goal management, but also so that we get the purpose of the individual subjects and the forms of work done. And there it is also important for me that movement not only becomes one And there I think that the most important thing is that this development takes place through the subjects, and then teachers must of course have time and a framework for it to become a reality too, so that it is not just something that is written on paper and they have to run from one class to another, but that they can actually do programmes where the students experience that there are varied forms of teaching where they can carry the body.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111173515	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111173517	It's just to express my enthusiasm. Now we have heard, I think, many good speeches and a rather excellent speech from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from DF. And an excellent speech from Mrs Lotte Rod, which is actually based on the same set of values. A little special, it must be said, but perhaps this is the start of our dare to make decisions, that we dare to set schools free, municipalities free, schools free, in our doings and barn here. Following on from the Minister's speech, I would like to hear from him what sort of radical left will let go and take his hands off?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111173617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111173617-2	Well, in the Radical Left, we are actually willing to clean up incredibly many rules and, as I said, I would like to have cleaned up the common goals as one of the next, because I find that the fact that teaching is governed by so many goals becomes a barrier to being able to have the educational reflection and to have a teaching that is built on spirit and imagination in school. And I would also like to share in discussing the number of hours and the bindings that are around it. In the Radical Left we would like to have a shorter school day. So we're actually willing to go pretty far. And if I'm going to challenge a little bit back, there was actually something that I disagreed a little bit with with, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen's speech as rapporteur. Because I think we should be very careful when we talk about freedom, who is freedom? So, is it for the schools, or is it for the municipalities? And we haven't gotten that far anymore if it's just the municipality that's making a strategy. I can see that, sir. Alex Vanopslagh nods as I say it, and in any case we in the Radical Left attach great importance to the need for freedom to go to schools and not just to be in the municipal council.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111173723	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111173724	But I am, but one has to acknowledge from in here that it also presupposes that we dare to set the municipalities free, so that they dare to set schools free. If we don't give up our hoops, it's gonna be a little dosed freedom. I feel a bit about doped freedom, that it's kind of like continuous intercourse. It may be that it can be something you think afterward, if you didn't want to be without it. Because crap always happens when there's freedom, and it always ends in here on Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111173809	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111173811	In reality, however, I think we have a discussion to do with freedom, because there are so many of us who have talked about freedom in all possible ways. And for us in the Radical Left, there are two freedoms at stake. There is both freedom from something, and there is freedom to something. In fact, I think we have equal political responsibility for both. If you have to be a little rude in relation to some of what I think has gone wrong in the attempts at freedom that have now been made, among other things. If you listen to some of the Esbjerg teachers, it's only been freedom from something. I mean, you've just felt like you've just thrown some rules away and you've lacked that joint, binding conversation about what the common is in our primary school. I believe that values, for example. the fact that we have to succeed in having a spirit of reality and imagination, we must commit each other more, at the same time as we then set free from rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111173854	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111173855	But then I stand in the queue of those who would like to praise the rapporteur's speech, and I would say that I almost agree with word for word. Lotte Rod Then come home, Uffe). Yeah, yeah, come home to Aarhus. Laughter No, no. I also think that the Minister mentioned this, because there is a dilemma between what national objectives we are setting ourselves and, at the same time, being able to give the primary school free, so that it can be said that the way to the objective we have now defined is up to the individual primary school. After all, I think that this debate, which is prompted by the Left, focuses precisely on how we maintain both the focus and the level of ambition and the momentum when we all want there to be more movement in primary school. That is the dilemma. So what does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111173959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111174001	I think the most important thing is a stronger commitment. That is also why I am asking the Minister about the common objectives and therefore also about the partnership that is now around school together about school, because that is what has great value. When we agree on the values and where we want to go, it can look different ways at school. I think that is what we have done so wrong in the past. We made some rules that were the same for everyone, and then we failed to discuss what the value and purpose of it really was. Now we have to do the opposite; now we have to commit more to the purpose, and I would also like to reverse the management in this way. If we are to talk about what the role of the municipalities is, it is, for example, that the municipalities should be more interested in their recognition and their management of the school leaders, whether there is imagination and enthusiasm at a school; that is, instead of measuring some requirement or some rule. So we need to change the whole way we look at what is really important and the task for the school.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111174104	Sir. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111174105	It may also be that it will be too detailed a discussion down here in Parliament and that we will have it outside the Chamber I do not know. But if we could agree to say that the primary school should be able to learn both with the head and the heart and the hand such a little airy, wouldn't it? But should there then be primary schools where they say: Well it may be that you have that purpose, but with us it is only the head. Is that the kind of freedom? I guess not. So how do we solve the dilemma we are discussing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220111174142	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111174143	That is why I believe that we must take the political direction, and then it must be the teachers, in other words the professional associations, who exercise both the purpose and also the working methods of the profession. And I think that is going to work much more, because we can see that we are making some kind of demand that there should be 45 minutes, that is not what changes the school; that is when it becomes a reality and the way the teachers work with their subjects. And then the arrow points back at us; for there must actually be a framework for making it a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111174218	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111174236	I think it is no secret that we in the Enhedslisten were not warm supporters of the reform of primary school. But one of the elements we actually found very good was the introduction of a requirement for movement at school. We think it was incredibly sensible for a strong focus to be placed on that element of teaching. It has already emerged from a number of rapporteur speeches that it is right, both from a health perspective and from a learning perspective, that there is a clear focus on student mobility. It is good for the body, and it is good for the head both in terms of learning and in relation to the well-being of the students. That is why I also think, when we have the debate, that it is essential to emphasise the ambitions of the reform in this area, because they have not been implemented so much. It may not have filled so much, but when you look at the follow-up research the figures are from January 2020, and there has certainly been something happening since then you can see that nothing had happened between 2014 and 2018 in relation to the schooling. When you look at the intermediate stage, you could see that it went a tiny bit up the first year after the reform; then it went down. And when you look at the entire education, you can actually see that after the reform of the primary school there has been a dramatic drop in the proportion of pupils who move physically 45 minutes a day. So in addition to the fine intentions, we must also say that what happened about the reform of the primary school simply did not work. And I shall not go into such a general rhetoric about the reform of primary school and how the overall situation in primary school may have affected it, i.e. whether it is due to a lack of teaching skills, or whatever the hell it may be. But what remains is that the objectives set around movement, in the agreement on the reform of primary schools, did not have the diametrically opposite effect. I would not say that, but the reality was at least that the pupils moved significantly less than four years after the reform of primary schools had been adopted. That is why I am just as happy as I can hear other rapporteurs being, that Mr. Stén Knuth constantly raises the debate on how to ensure more movement in primary school. And I think it is actually worth an analysis to find out what has happened in primary school, since we have a result where there has been no more movement, but less movement out of the decisions taken back 7-8 years ago. Unfortunately, I must join the Glee Club in saying that they do not believe that a national strategy is the way. There are many things that need to be corrected after 7-8 turbulent years in primary school. I do not think it is right at this stage to draw up a national strategy. On the other hand, I think it would be a good thing if the Minister were to take care to bring the whole debate on movement into the school cooperation. In fact, I think that the lack of results and the negative developments that have actually taken place call for us to do something. Well, I'm not generally opposed to national strategies... that choir I can't join. Well, I'd say it could be an opportunity to do that. I just don't believe that this is the right solution at this stage. On the other hand, I think it would be wise to discuss with teachers and school leaders and with parents and pupils' representatives what we can actually do to make this move in practice, so that when we or others discuss it in 7-8 years' time, we can not say that even 7-8 years after this debate it turned out to be moving back instead of what is our common intention. And yes, it is very good that we have the discussion about releasing schools more. That doesn't mean it solves this problem, because it's not freedom itself that necessarily solves the problems, so unfortunately, sir. Stén Knuth, we must say no to a national action plan now. But we will give an undertaking that we will very much be involved in discussing both the reasons for what has happened and the solutions we can then point out; because we think it is extremely important that students move more than they obviously do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111174742	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Mai Mercado, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111174804	Thank you, and thank you for an exciting motion for a resolution, which I can say that the Conservative People's Party will not support, but I will go so far as to say that we have really got a colleague with a very good cause and that there are also praises from here to Mr Conservatives. Stén Knuth to put movement on the agenda. It might be that DIF should just rewrite their slogan so that it is not move for life, but sir. Stén Knuth moves you for life. Who knows? There are three reasons why we are not going to support this motion for a resolution, and the first is that it is no secret that the legal requirement for the 45 minutes' movement is not a desire that has grown in the Conservative seas. If it was up to us, there was no requirement. If it were up to us, we would rather introduce a shorter school day with a good chance of getting out and moving more afterwards. This is the consequence that we have seen more people moving less, even after school, because they think that school day is very long. The second argument is that, at a time of debureaucratisation and at a time when we are actually discussing more freedom in schools, it seems to be going in the opposite direction to drawing up a national strategy. Because if you make a national strategy, you have to assume that unless what the minister said is such a paper tiger that the municipalities are going to put on a shelf and that they are never going to use, and that they will not live, that it will require somebody to make some feedback from the municipalities, and that will mean that there will be employees in the municipalities who will have to sit and provide documentation and input on how to comply with this strategy, and there we think that that time can be spent better. In the area of older people, for example, we see that we are going in the very opposite direction, trying to remove troubles and cumbersome rules and requirements, and then we do not think it makes sense to add more rules or requirements in the field of school. That is the second argument. The third is whether a national strategy on more movement can bring together and unite 98 municipalities, and it has actually been said a little by many rapporteurs before me here from the platform today, that you can make movement in a great many ways and in different ways in the municipalities, and when the resolution says that you want to create a common framework, we in the Conservative People's Party just think intuitively that it can be difficult to get all municipalities to be covered by this common framework. For movement may be thought of many different ways in the many different municipalities • the 98 • we have. So, as a summary from this point of view, we are not so enthusiastic about the legal requirement for the 45 minutes of movement that we can be concerned about whether it will mean more bureaucracy and at least not less bureaucracy, and that it risks becoming a strategy on glittered paper that will not be able to take shape after the municipalities out there, we will not be supporting this resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111175119	Sir. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111175120	Thank you also for a very good speech, which I think is worthwhile in terms of setting free, but also in relation to not institutionalising our children, as I think the reform of primary school that is in force today is a little an expression of, and which points to, that particular point. If we make a long school day, there may not be much to say if the children move less afterwards, but many of the children also have versatile sports and sport in their leisure life, and there must also be room for that. So I am very much on that line, but it is so straight into something else where I would like to ask Mrs Mai Mercado if, when it is said that we should not make such national strategies, she can see a contradiction in the fact that the Conservative President was then a few months ago proposing that we should make some decisions from here that the children should have one or two days' practical training in the companies every week.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111175232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111175233	I think I said it in a completely different way. In fact, it can be said that our proposal was an expression of the fact that there are some pupils for whom it does not provide the learning that they should really have. And you can learn in many different ways, and for some students to get out and be part of a vocational school early there is already a certain amount of opportunity, but also getting out and getting acquainted with the companies could actually be a way to want to go back to school again. So it should not be seen that freedom is narrowed down, but that freedom is actually extended, especially for this group of young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111175311	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111175330	If the primary school reform had started in the first grade at its introduction in 2013, then it was due for graduating this year, so it is a good time to give the reform a critical review. The objectives of the reform were quite clear. The students should be better at reading, writing and calculating, the social background should mean less, the well-being should be raised, and a full-day school should be introduced, which also took care of homework and movement. And it is also a well-known fact that the reform of primary schools has not succeeded in achieving one of its objectives. The trade union has been dumped. Well, that's a flunk. The ability to lift the weakest • dumped. To create improvements in relation to movement and body dumped. One could put it in another way: if the reform of the primary school really were to take a final this year, then we would probably conclude that the reform of the primary school should have its school money back. When the reform of primary school was presented, we warned in the Liberal Alliance that it would most likely result, i.e. a worse primary school. But we have also always said that we were hoping we were wrong; that we would rather have a good primary school than we would be right. Unfortunately, instead of getting a better primary school, we were right, and the exciting thing about it is whether it makes some new insights spread around whether it is the case that we recognize in the Folketing that we have to settle with the ideology and thinking that one can regulate oneself, regulate oneself in detail, to a better primary school. And judging by this motion for a resolution, it does not indicate that this is the case. If you look at the reactions, from the various parties, and what you hear in the public debate at all, then there is in fact something that suggests that we are learning lessons. We would like to set schools free with free municipalities. We are also talking about something similar happening in this area, and I would really like to congratulate the Minister on this idea of model legislation, in other words that one can indicate a direction that one can provide knowledge and tools, but that it is not a heavy retail regulation that is the way forward, not even in the field of school. With the resolution itself, too much of the old is not working; it is too much detailed regulation, too much bureaucracy and too many demands on how the primary schools should teach. And that's one of them. What went wrong with the reform of primary school. This does not mean that it is not healthy to move, both for adults and children. This is particularly true of the youngest people who have a natural need to move, and it is very much a question of giving them the right and place to do so. I mean, when I was a kid and I went to primary school, there was no national strategy or measure of how much we had to move, but I got plenty of movement every eternal day of the recess. I played football and table tennis when it was really bad weather, and I and by far most of my schoolmates got the movement we needed, without Christiansborg having to adopt a national strategy for it. I think it requires such a special kind of christiansborg logic, which almost borders on some sort of arrogance, although it comes of good intentions, of course, if you think that such things as movement and a good school day at all can be ensured with more legislation, more strategies and more bureaucracy. This clearly shows why there is so much bureaucracy, because when there is a demand for 45 minutes of movement, there is also a need in schools and teachers to demonstrate that we are living up to the daily 45 minutes of movement, to the municipalities and to liberal politicians in the Left. And that is how bureaucracy starts; it starts with good intentions, but it ends with bad results. In terms of ensuring movement, we must make use of the fact that Denmark is a country of association, and I also know that the rapporteurs are involved in this. And we must be proud that we are a country of association. We have thousands of associations where active Danes stand ready to play football and climb and dance with the children when they get off school. There are coaches and volunteers who have fallen in love with different sports, whether rowing, football, martial arts, or whatever it is, and that is what makes it so exciting for children to get out into an association because there they feel the community and they feel the passion. There is a very important general education and an important community in association life, and it has a zeal, that education and that movement cannot be borne by the primary school, nor should it be borne by the primary school. What we need in primary school is to give both schools and teachers more room to move on, but also more room to organise everyday life and plan school days in the way they find best. And, of course, we still have to make demands on what is the school's core task, that is, that children should learn the most important skills and know something about the society they are part of. Of course, that requirement still has to be there. The school should like to introduce the children to the world they are a part of through the subjects. And that does not mean that we should regulate in detail on something as trivial as movement. That is why we are actually in agreement with the government in saying no to this proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111175853	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to wipe off. Thank you. Then it's mr. Uffe Elbæk, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111175922	Thank you. I was actually going to make a very different speech from the one I am about to make, because I have discussed this resolution with the rapporteur on the Left on several occasions, and I actually fully agreed that there was a need for a national strategy in this area. As a starting point, I have no problem with formulating a national strategy, because there is a need for both focus, a high level of ambition and momentum. So when I went into the Chamber, I was actually going to stand up and say that I fully support the proposal. Then there have been some really interesting speeches from up here, both from the Danish People's Party, from Radicals, from Enhedslisten, from SF, but what impressed me was what the Minister said. Because I see that everyone agrees on the intention behind the proposal and that an open door is actually being run into the government and at least in relation to the minister. So I am standing here and actually intended to say something quite different, but I just have to conclude that I think that the discussion and ambition behind this proposal must be able to take a different approach if it is in the process of making a report in committee where we say this is an important issue; because I do not think that our primary schools are good enough to integrate the body at all. And I have also asked during the debate how we get a primary school that talks to both the head and the heart and the body so how do we do it? After all, this debate is not over at all. So what I'm thinking is if you could take this discussion to committee and then actually make an ambitious joint text that says that this really is something that we in the Danish Parliament are focusing on and attach great importance to. So I'm not gonna be voting with Mr. Knox. Stén Knuth, as I had actually planned, because I think that the discussion has become much more nuanced than I had expected. And I hope that we can take it on board in committee to have an ambitious joint text drawn up there. In conclusion, I believe that one of the keys to making the skills that are needed in the individual primary school is a much, much closer cooperation with the local sports associations and associations that have experience in this area. And I am thinking not only of DGI, but also of the whole circle, the ecosystem of associations that is in relation to the body. So I hope that in one way or another we can help to support and that we can send out the signals that are needed. So I'm not gonna make it to "sorry," sir. Sten Knuth to vote for it. I was prepared to do so, but I think that the discussion has made me think that it is running in an open door. And I hope that we will then be able to produce a truly ambitious joint text in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111180317	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Sir. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111180333	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, I love it when politicians aren't arguing. Well, if you can actually move something during a debate, that's good. On the other hand, I would like to say that I always get so sad when we discuss primary school, because all the rapporteurs from the Parliamentary Chair are not just now, but through me I do not know how many years the world champions are to address our primary school as one who is failing in one area, in the other, in the third area, in the fourth area. And I would like to say with some knowledge of a lot of schools in Europe and schools in Europe, because I have always been very concerned about how to run school in the rest of the European Community, that we have the world's best primary school. And something must be able to do something about it! When I look out at society and see how well-functioning we, despite various challenges, are in a wide range of areas, how much confidence there is in the Danish population to authorities, between each other, in relation to what you experience in many other countries, when I look at our labour market structure: Our primary school is great at creating independent thinking people. Hooray! Hooray! After all, I have been with so many years and helped to do the primary school reform in 2001-02 when the Fogh government came in. I myself sat with the then minister, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, and negotiated the reform of the primary school, and at that time it was all about the PISA studies, i.e. how fast we read and so on, and it has struck me that every time we come to an election and we get a new government, we have to make a new reform of the primary school, because everyone goes to the polls that we want to have the world's best primary school. Yes, of course we will. But then a new reform of primary school will have to be carried out, and it is true that none of us have given the existing reform of primary school time to work. And I think we should get away from that a little bit and then try to keep our fingers a little away and then actually acknowledge that section 1 of the primary school law is fantastic. It's the world's best public school paragraph we have. Our primary school works much better than what we're talking about here. And when it comes to movement, there is a big difference between the different schools. There is also a great difference between municipalities. I have two children attending primary school in Viborg, and I should like to say that the juices are getting a lot of movement. Can I conclude from this that because they are getting a lot of movement and, incidentally, have a lot of practice, that is how it is in the other schools? They have so many theme weeks of one kind and the other, where they are out to touch and feel and cycle, and what do I know that sometimes I think: Okay, couldn't there also be room for the biblical? I would have liked to have a strategy for German and French and ancient knowledge and political history of ideas, etc., and that is how you can continue to put it upstairs. But because they get enough movement, that doesn't mean that this is the way it is in the other schools. But the rest of us cannot conclude that the primary school is just not good enough to make movement, because I think it depends very much on how to approach the individual school. That's why I think all the good intentions, despite the fact and praise for the focus on it, sir. Sten Knuth is that our most important task is to learn how to lift your hands a little and just show confidence. It is rare for anything bad to come out of trust, so let us set schools free, let us set teachers free. They know what they are facing. And it's different from student to student. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh got moving a lot in primary school, others don't. Some are sitting in a corner, others are sitting with an iPad, or whatever. There's a huge difference between that, but it's the teachers who are closest to seeing it. So let us instead strengthen the primary school and then let the municipalities have economic freedom by abolishing the service ceiling and tax freezes. Then we can get really far.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111180842	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Uffe Elbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111180853	I just want to say thank you for an enthusiastic speech and that I agree with you very much along the way. However, there is still the dilemma that we are moving around when we talk about freedom to primary school and at the same time have some national quality goals; that is, where you have to be after 9 years in primary school. How does the rapporteur think we can deal with the fact that we have national levels of ambition and that we want to free the primary school? Because I think that this is always the dilemma in the discussion, including here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111180931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111180932	Now it is a little difficult to ask questions back, but I am not sure I understand the question correctly. Are these the national tests we're talking about? I have a very skeptical relationship with them. In relation to all the target requirements we make, I would say: yes, we have some students who we know are challenged and who require special attention. It can then be given by supporting learning with the two-teacher system etc., if you now give the municipalities financial freedom, among other things. by lifting the service ceiling and tax freeze. For the big challenge out there in the municipalities right now is a sharply decreasing number of children who challenge the economy of the municipalities, where then some schools have to be closed or you have to find another way to do it. However, I believe that the school managers and teachers know very well where the shoe prints.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111181031	Sir. Uffe Elbæk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111181033	It may be that I had a bad wording, because I am also completely opposed to national tests. But I am not opposed to there being any demands on where our children and young people should be when they leave the 9th grade. So we have to make sure that they are dressed for the future that is on their way, and therefore they have to be at a certain level within x number of subject areas. I guess we're agreed on that. But in relation to the way there, I guess that's what we're talking about... there's got to be freedom at each school to find its own way to reach the common level when the students leave the 9th grade. That's what I was asking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111181111	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111181113	We agree on that, and it would be a little difficult for me to begin to describe that path right here. Well, of course we agree on that, and of course there are some clear requirements that we must have met. I just wanted us to be a little bit better at talking about our primary school as a school that actually succeeds in incredibly many areas. Because it does so very much, because otherwise we would not have as rich a society as we do today. And we must remember this when we discuss the challenges that are, of course, and which, moreover, we have very often created from here for primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111181157	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Stén Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111181218	Thank you for that, President. Thanks for the really, really good conversation. I can hear where we are, but it should not stop me from expressing both my enthusiasm, but also respect for the good conversation we have on this very important subject. Thank you to the Minister and the rapporteurs. Everyone who is in this Chamber today has been involved in discussing the movement in primary school, and we all agree that more needs to be done. There are a lot of people out there who are doing a really, really good job, I'd like to admit, sir. Jens Rohde. I myself have been out looking at some of the things that are going on in some of the best schools around, and far, by far, most places this is going on really well. But there are also areas where we can do a little better, and that is why our proposal here today from the Left is also about creating a national strategy, just as we have done in other areas that have been about loneliness, medication, and I shall come after you. I had actually imagined that I should have made a speech other than the one I'm giving now, because I can hear where the Left could stand all alone in the Folketing on exactly this, and there isn't really anyone who wants to stand alone, so we also have to review our approach to this. But we need to look at how we get more movement in primary school. Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj's excellent idea of making other initiatives in relation to movement in the primary school and at some point bring it into the school together to have a discussion on how to see it unfold better with the other tools, including Danish School Sports, which have been given and for which we have jointly raised money, could well be a very fine proposal. And by the way, thank you very much to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen for the good suggestions on what the Left should do to get more movement in primary school, of course we will continue to work on them. And thank you for the roses, for the fact that movement is important. There are a lot of people in this Parliament who come out of sport and have seen that movement can do something for both body and mind, and just what we all want the young people to have something more of: a proper well-being, and then having some decent comrades, a proper play and some movement in primary school. So that has been the intention of the proposal that lies here. And I do not want you to be quite sure that I am stopping here because this is an important agenda, and fortunately we are all agreed on that. So just thank you very much for the debate and for your speeches. It has been tremendously inspiring to be involved in this, I think you are great, and I am glad that you also have the approach to movement that is so important for our children in primary school, so thank you very much for the debate, and thank you for accepting it. I'm happy to facilitate a conversation again if I can feel that I don't think it's going fast enough in relation to movement in primary school. Then I'll call you again so that we can discuss further here in the Assembly Hall how we think it could be out there too. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111181602	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220111181615	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 12 January 2022, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
