ParlaMint-DK_20220203100007	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 82 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on guaranteeing municipal authorizing rights for private rental property). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). From a member of the Folketing of Stinus Lindgreen (RV), who is on leave, I have been informed that, from 7 February 2022 onwards, he can again meet at the Tinget. Abba Razvis shall cease to be a member of the Folketing as from that date.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203100040	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203100059	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 36 (V, DF, NB and LA), against 68 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203100127	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203100209	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. Has everyone voted as they would like? Yeah. The vote will end. In favour of 26 votes (DF, EL, NB, FG, ALT and 3 SF), against 77 votes (S, V, SF (by mistake), RV, KF and LA), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203100246	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203100303	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 34 (V, KF, NB and LA), against 59 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), abstentions 10 (DF). The motion for a resolution has been rejected. This means that there are no more votes today so that those who do not wish to take part in the negotiations are asked to leave the Chamber in good order. Thank you. Now I assume that further discussion can take place outside the Chamber so that we can proceed with the rest of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203100533	No one has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. The next item is a question, and that is where we need to put the rapporteurs in the front rows. After all, we have returned to what is normal in the Folketing, so we are giving equal time for the rapporteurs to get in place up here in the front ranks. I think we're so small. In any case, someone is ready to justify the request.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203100718	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 8 February. We must first have a explanatory statement, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203100746	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for attending this question debate, which we in the Left have been putting together with the Danish People's Party, because for a long time, both before the bill was adopted last year and after, we have had a discussion and have heard the people express a large number of concerns. It is not least in the local areas that can potentially be designated a national park when it is estimated that it is the time. We have had a stripe that has been presented to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Many of the issues have just been raised, including the following: on animal welfare, which we have also discussed here. We have heard of neighbouring problems where those who have neighbouring areas to the natural areas feel that they are now getting enormous wear and tear on their land and, in principle, that what you want to do well in the national parks can be totally or partially put at risk in neighbouring areas. We have heard of concerns about responsibility when people get into these fenced-in nature parks where there's going to be big grassers. What is to be done in a situation where, for example, a kindergarten is on a trip with lunches in the backpack, and how big a stud of 700 kg gets the scent of them? We have from the open-air organizations, etc. heard of the concerns of the open-air people. They ask: how are we going to use these areas that we have been used to when we are going to exercise, cycle, walk etc., without going into carambola with, or at least risk going into carambola with, these big wild animals that we have planned to put out? We also hear about concerns in the local areas because they may feel completely fenced in; you now get a small corner where you live, and then you have a large enclosure around your local area. You feel a great deal of insecurity about that. We in the Left are fully aware of the problem that there is a challenge and that we need to do something more for our wild nature and for biodiversity. We fully agree with the objective. That's more the way you choose to use this drug that we have some concerns about and questions about. There we are thinking that this is precisely a good opportunity to have a more wide-ranging discussion on the various issues. We can, of course, also call for consultations in committee and other matters in which we also intend to follow up. What is our starting point is that we must take very seriously both the nature and the concern of the people living in the area. That is why we are putting forward a good and hopefully constructive debate on how we can possibly adjust the basis that lies so that it is a solution that both nature and people can be happy about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203101051	Thank you. That was the reason. This means that we must now have the answer, so go to the Minister for the Environment. It didn't get drunk, so it's up to you whether you want to do it or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203101102	I'm betting Jacob Jensen doesn't have corona. Dear all of you. Why is it that we are here today? We do because our nature is under pressure. Mine white winds, mother-of-pearl, mnemosyne. These are some of the species of butterflies that have disappeared from Danish nature and that our children can no longer see flaking around in a forest clearing. Right now we have 1,800 endangered species at home, where almost half are associated with our forest landscapes. Pearl owl, own cub, shovel lilies. We are among the bottom-scrapers in the European Union when it comes to looking after the species and habitat types that we are obliged to protect. We are here today because we have neglected our responsibility. Now we will give nature the boost it needs with an agreement that has been called the greatest for nature for 20 years. Based on recommendations that for decades have sounded to changing governments: Give nature space. Let it develop on its own terms and in a way that at the same time ensures a variety of outdoor life. This is less than 1%. of Denmark's total area, where we will make a special effort for nature and low natural national parks. That's about 25,000 hectares out of the approx. 200,000 hectares of forest of natural land managed by the Danish Nature Agency today. Now the Left says we hear that today too, and other parties, that we have to take a timeout. But dear friends, our nature needs a timeout. It's under pressure. For over 20 years the reports have piled up and told us a clear and unambiguous picture: our nature is in crisis. Action is needed. But it doesn't seem as if the seriousness is crystal clear. It is not long ago that letters were sent to almost all local and regional newspapers saying that you do not buy the claim that biodiversity is in decline in Denmark • do not buy the claim I had actually hoped that we had moved on, because the traces from the climate debate scare. For too many years we wasted time discussing whether we should do something about the climate rather than talk about what to do. Similarly, I hope that today we can see ourselves free from the discussion about whether, in December 2020, the government, the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative 888 million. kr. to a package of nature and biodiversity. In June, a broad majority in this House sided with nature. Together with the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, we adopted the legal basis which paves the way for the Danes to look forward to up to 15 natural national parks in the future. It must be large coherent natural areas where we will ensure good conditions for biodiversity and where all Danes can have exciting natural experiences. All natural parks will be different, but basically we are setting up four measures to help nature. It is about large self-managing natural areas where we give nature space, water back to the landscape, untouched forest and large grazing animals that can help create more variety with light-open areas for the benefit of many species, plants and insects. These are not measures that we have taken out of thin air. In fact, they rhyme on four of the five recommendations from an expert opinion from 2020, where 16 Danish researchers and experts point to how based on the global and regional IPBES reports, i.e. reports from the UN Nature Panel, biodiversity can be restored on land in Denmark. These are not untested measures either. They have been known, recommended and used for a long time by the state, by private foundations and by municipalities. Today the Danish Nature Agency has horses on Langeland and crown animals in Dyrehaven. In Hammer Bakker, the municipality of Aalborg has horses to graze, and in Lille Vildmose has Aage V. Jensen Naturfond elk. And less than 2 km away from here at Amager Fælled has a grasserlaug cattle and horses that graze in the wild all year round to name just a few examples. Blue governments have also supported these initiatives in the past. That is, for example, the case. less than 3 years ago, the Left President, Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, himself visited Fussingø at Randers, one of the places where there is now a national park. Here the then Minister for the Environment and Food could proudly tell that more untouched forests should be laid up, fences set up and large herbivores exposed. So that is not something new, but with changes there are of course also issues and concerns, both locally and nationally. I understand that, and we understand that, and we take that seriously too, and that is why today's debate can also be used to unfold what we want. Because I often experience that when we become concrete, when we speak from facts and not from ideas, shoulders actually fall a little. So far, we have decided on concrete plans for two natural national parks, Fussingø and Gribskov, and we have done so after having held citizens' meetings and forest migrations, after involving local project groups with neighbours, local association life, municipalities and much more, and of course after a wide public consultation. In addition, three other sites have been selected for natural national parks, namely Tranum in North Jutland, Stråsø in West Jutland and Almindingen on Bornholm. And what does "chosen" really mean? This means that what has been decided is what area they should be in. So here, too, we are engaged in the involvement which must provide good local solutions. Right now we are looking at the selection of the last up to ten national parks, and we are doing so on the basis of a gross list of potential areas, after we have received almost 200 concrete proposals for locations from citizens, organisations and municipalities, and we are doing so on the basis of the input we have received since then from municipalities, citizens, associations and many others. Once selected, the same process follows: involvement, dialogue, local project group, consultation and responsiveness, so that those living at the upcoming national parks and using the area are involved and heard. Many concerns about the national parks go into open air, and I would like to emphasise that in the national parks we want to create not only spaces for nature but also a good framework for outdoor life. There must be room for heathens, rare orchids and lizards, and there must be room for scouts, orientators, families with children and the thousands of Danes who have nature as a sanctuary or exercise room. There is therefore no change whatsoever in the rules governing access. It will be open 24 hours a day every week throughout the year. For each of the upcoming national parks, we have set aside 5 million. kr. to open air facilities, and a tripartite agreement has been made between the Ministry of the Environment, the Free Air Council and the Danish Nature Conservation Association on how we can find good solutions for both nature and outdoor life. The consideration of open-air life will apply generally in all natural national parks, which is why we also have a good and close dialogue with open-air organisations and representatives who help us to find the solutions in each natural national park that can create a good framework for open-air life. And if you look at the two places where there are final project plans, then I think that solutions have been found here where nature and outdoor life can go hand in hand, and let us just take Fussingø as an example. Here come two new marked hiking routes, and if you are alone in the wilderness type, then of course you just go wherever you want. Mountain bikers will still be able to run on their tracks in the National Park, and you can also stay overnight in the area's shelters and squares and freely set up your tent in large parts of the National Park. So when asked whether one is still allowed to enjoy and travel in nature, the answer is a clear yes. Then there are concerns about animal welfare, and let me just make it quite clear that it cannot be misunderstood: animal welfare in the national parks must be in order, just as it must be for the thousands of cows, horses, bisons and many other animals that today care for nature on the land of the state. The derogation provided for in the Animal Welfare Act does not alter our obligation to animals under fences: there must be enough food and water, and there must be shelter and shelter throughout the year. The animals are being supervised and local contingency plans are being made for what to do if, for example, there are. comes a very hard winter or a summer of drought. The animals must have a good and a rich life with plenty of space, with freedom to daze in the sun and to play with the other animals in the flock. Another concern is whether you can be comfortable walking among animals, not least for scouts and forest children's gardens and local o-course clubs and others who bring children and young people into the wild, and that is a relevant concern that we must take seriously. It is important to say here that animals that are calm and naturally shy towards humans will be selected, and because they are full-year grazing, where there will be enough food for the animals all year round, there will be far from the same density of animals as in fences with summer grazing cattle. In Fussingø, for example, you count. That there will be one stud for every five football fields, and I also know that there are good examples of forest children's gardens sharing a forest with all-year-old cattle, as well as many families for children, for example. Enjoy a walk in Bisonskoven on Bornholm. In 2020, a study was carried out in Bøthøskoven on Falster, where horses are all-year grazing. of the groups and families who visit the forests had children and that very many came to see horses. But there is a great task here because, compared to just one or two generations ago, most of us today are not used to dealing with large animals. So an important communication effort awaits here about how to deal safely with animals. Of course, there will be something to get used to in the national parks and some things will be different, but I am sure that we can find good local solutions, and that is what we are trying to do. And if I am going to return to what I started with, that is why we are standing here today, we are standing here because we have over time failed our responsibility to nature. For over 20 years, we have known that our nature is under pressure... we have even known what it took to help it... but for over 20 years the answer has been that one would of course like to do a lot for nature, but that it just shouldn't be right now. It's been a free round, just not for our nature. But we are also standing here because we now have a chance to do better for those who come after us. Last week, the Danish Ornithological Association announced that with the national parks it is likely that birds, which have otherwise disappeared from Denmark, will be able to return the black stork, and just think if our efforts for nature in the future are not only about what we stand to lose, but about everything we can get back. Think of the experiences that await children, young people and adults, the crowd of bird songs, the scouts can hear in the morning in the shelter, the many flowers you can meet on the forest floor on the run, the colorful butterflies that sit on the edge of the baby carriage, but this requires us to take the challenges seriously, not by the endangered species we have here at home, as one of the questioners has suggested, getting a think tank, but that they get better habitats. If we are to fulfil our responsibilities towards our children and grandchildren and make sure that they can explore a diverse and exciting nature at home, then we will not get around it, as has been shouted for decades, that nature will have its place, and that we will have the great cohesive natural areas where thousands of animals, plants and mushrooms can thrive, and we will not get that by continuing to do what we have done so far. That is why we need national parks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203102506	Thank you. In the first place, only the general rapporteurs have one brief comment to make to the Minister, but we will have a second round with the Minister. First, it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203102519	Thank you. The minister says that we are standing here today because we have neglected our nature. No, that is not actually the main reason why we are here today. Why we stand here today is because we are neglecting our animals, and we are doing so in the national parks and national parks which the Minister thinks are so praiseworthy. I have to say that I am very surprised, especially because we have a very great responsibility for animals that we put behind the fences and it does not matter whether it is the leisure farmer who has two cows, whether it is the conventional farmer who has a thousand cows or whether it is the state who has a responsibility for 35 cows in one of the future national parks. If the animals are behind the fences, we have. And I don't think that's gonna be taken seriously at all. It is fine to discuss it, and we have had countless consultations, where the Minister is also constantly referring to biodiversity, yes, it is important. However, when we raise the question here, it is actually to hear what we are doing in relation to animal welfare, which is being dispensed from, not in relation to the farmer, because that is not what we should do, but in relation to the animals that are in these parks.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203102627	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203102629	Well, thank you for the question. And yes, we're standing here because we're discussing what to do for our nature. What's the plan? What is it that is needed to deliver a nature that we can be familiar with children and grandchildren? It is quite fair to say that, of course, nature should not be at the expense of animal welfare, but not one politician, not one party has said the opposite. And it is true that we have had a whole series of consultations, among others. where animal welfare has filled, and therefore Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard knows very well that we have that responsibility for the animals behind the fences. We will not compromise on that. So the animals must not starve in the new national parks. They must not do so today, they must not do so in the future. No one thinks so, nor is it in the legislation. That is why we cannot go on saying this when it is actually not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203102721	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203102723	Thank you so much. Now there are also young people sitting in the audience, and the minister is saying climate crisis; then there was the corona crisis, and now there is the biodiversity crisis. Well, what are we to fear now? There is the climate crisis, there was the corona crisis, and now it is the biodiversity crisis that should be feared. I actually think that we should go back to quite common sense and be incredibly afraid of socialists and social democrats, but that must be so. Now the Minister is saying here that the animals should not suffer in these fenced-in areas. That is what the Minister said yesterday when I asked about it in a question to the Minister during Question Time and then it should actually be very, very straightforward. If the Minister really believes that the animals should not suffer in these fenced-in areas, then I look forward to the Minister removing the part from the law of L 229, which was adopted this summer, which specifically allows for derogations from Section 3 and Section 9 of the Animal Welfare Act. Will the Minister remove it if she believes that animal welfare is so important?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203102828	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203102829	I think, in fact, that the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party is precisely stressing why what we are discussing today is what we should do for nature. Because it does not sound as if the rapporteur for the New Citizens recognises that we are in the midst of a biodiversity crisis. This is not something you can just pull on your shoulders or where you can say that we just have to have some common sense. We have known for decades that nature is in decline, but there has just been no change that nature needs. That is exactly what we are discussing today. Then there is the issue of the animal welfare law, and I may have some doubts as to whether the rapporteur actually knows what is in the paragraphs referred to here. Because we were in the Chamber yesterday, when I also made it clear that no, animals must not starve, nor is it in the proposal. That is one of the things that we are dealing with here. on supervision. That is why a story is told over and over again in this Chamber and on the social media, which is simply not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203102929	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203102934	However, when there is a derogation, what the Minister says here last time is also about supervision. And that must also mean that supervision will be different from the supervision that you have outside the national natural parks that are being set up. I guess the Minister can't refuse to say that is right. So that is one part of my question. The second part is whether, in relation to the local involvement that the Minister is talking about, it makes no impression at all on the Minister and the government that there are demonstrations, that there are strong concerns, that there are deputies in our committee, one after the other saying: listen to us, we have a huge challenge. Rold Forest is being cut into the middle, at least in the proposal that is being put forward. There are villages being fenced in. Doesn't it make an impression, and does the government intend to do more than just listen? Are you going to act on that too?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103018	First of all, with regard to animal welfare, I would like to say that we have already discussed it a great deal already. A great many questions have also been answered. And yes, it is true that we can monitor at stock level, for example. There is also the possibility of regular monitoring on horses, as is currently the case on cattle. But that does not mean that we do not take responsibility for the fact that we have animals behind fences on us. So animal welfare must be controlled, and that is why we have set in motion all the plans that I have outlined. Then there is the issue of local involvement, and yes, it is very important. This is also why we are concerned in those processes with listening to what is believed locally, involving the municipality, involving citizens, involving stakeholders in the local project groups that are being set up in all the places where there are national parks. And I myself now have meetings with open-air organisations and with municipalities to have local concerns and input reflected, so that we make sure that we make wise local decisions. So of course it's important.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103122	Then it is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103124	Thank you. I assume that the reason why the appointments have been postponed is because the Minister has listened to the criticism that has been made about citizen involvement, because it is not just a criticism that has been short-lived. It has been long, it has been massive, we have had a myriad of deputies in the committee where people have told us that they have had a walk in the woods. It has been the citizen involvement that has been there. What does the Minister intend to do to restore confidence in the fact that people and people who may even look forward to a national park but who do not feel heard are actually being listened to?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103156	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103157	It is true that we had a plan to be able to identify the last up to ten national parks in December. But I fully agree that when there is a lot of input, and it is both from municipalities, citizens and organisations that there has been a great debate, we have to ensure that we get the material delved thoroughly and that there is room for the follow-up dialogue before the appointment. This is exactly what we are now doing. As I said, I myself met with a number of open-air organisations to make sure that we also get their nuances with when they are represented by a large organisation in, for example, the United Kingdom. The group of stakeholders. The same applies to citizens, and one of the things that has at least been asked for is that when you get to the local process after the appointment, there will be some more time. That's one of them. One of the things that we have listened to, and I think it is quite obvious that there will also be more time in that process. So we take it absolutely to heart, and that is also what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103302	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103303	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. After all, I fully share the joy of the process that we are now launching, where we are starting to solve the whole biodiversity crisis we are facing, and we are also getting the process where I have no doubt that this will benefit both nature and the environment and biodiversity and local communities. However, we also know that clear biodiversity targets have been set by the European Union, which, of course, requires us to allocate 10%. for strictly protected nature both on land and on water. There is, of course, this agreement on national parks and untouched forests, a very important first step. However, does the Minister agree that this is an agenda in which we have now taken the first significant steps, but that it is also an agenda that we must continue to work on if we are to resolve this biodiversity crisis?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103353	The short answer is yes. After all, we are not finished in the sense that natural parks are also only one of the elements of the nature and biodiversity package that we have decided on in the area of agreement that I mentioned earlier and in which the Enhedslisten is also part of it. We have also decided on much more untouched forest, which we also know is very good for nature and many of the species under pressure. And then, in general, we have also made every effort to ensure that the European Union, together with us, both influences the world we are part of, with new global nature objectives, but also takes the lead by having ambitious natural objectives of its own. That's one of them. 30% protected area on land and at sea and 10%. strictly protected area for the whole of the EU, i.e. the total EU target. That is where we in Denmark also have to increase our share. And there are the things that we have agreed on, of course, an important element in it, but of course there will also be steps that we need to take after this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103453	Sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103458	Thank you for a very good speech, in which I think the Minister is once again able to represent both the enthusiasm behind these national parks, but also the good arguments as to why they should be created. Following on from the Enhedslisten's question, I would like to say that we are going to have to go up to 10%. It is true that this is a Danish objective, but can it not also be said that it is an EU-wide nature which is properly protected? My question is that we have judged that we have approx. 1% wild, untouched nature in Denmark, and with these national parks and the wild forest, the minister can say what we come up on like this, but also how far further the minister thinks we should get up when it comes to creating properly protected wild, untouched nature in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103548	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103549	Thank you. Well, it's true that these are 10%. strict protection is an EU objective, which means that it is something that we undertake to do together. We have also taken them into the regional marine conventions of which we are a part, that is. HELCOM for the Baltic Sea and OSPAR for the North Sea and the Atlantic Ocean. So this is something we are actively working with, but it is not Danish objectives. However, what the rapporteur can always make me talk well about are some of the electoral promises we have made, and there are the goals that lie here in the nature and biodiversity package, the promise that Social Democracy made both the Danes and Danish nature before the elections, namely that we wanted 15 natural parks and 75,000 hectares of untouched forest. So that is exactly what we are delivering together with the Alternative, but as I mentioned before, it is clear that it does not stop here, and that is why we are also doing many other good things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103645	We thank the Minister in this round and then get to work on the rapporteur's round. First of all, it is the rapporteur of the questioners. The minister's drinking off, thank you for that. Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203103713	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As you know, the debate on national parks, which the government, together with a majority, adopted last year, continues to roar there. As time draws nearer where the next areas are planned to be designated, the public's concern also increases for the major consequences that local communities are experiencing or are at least at risk of experiencing in relation to what a designation might mean. In the Left we are very, very concerned about the crisis in which the Danish nature finds itself. There is no doubt that biodiversity is under pressure and that the number of species is declining. That is why we also want a large, targeted and active effort to strengthen our nature and biodiversity, also in relation to the aquatic environment and climate action, among other things. through afforestation as part of an overall environmental and natural policy. We must deliver a better and more diverse nature to future generations than the one we took over ourselves. This requires political initiatives and priorities, which we in the Left are prepared to push for. It must surely be initiatives that work and where the effort will be seen in a context and not in a silo thinking where each effort is assessed separately. National parks are designed to cope with the decline in biodiversity, i.e.: the number of species found in the Danish nature. The aim is important, but that is the way it is being organised now, which we do not think is properly thought out. As part of the national parks, large forest and natural areas will be fenced and exposed to large grasses such as bison and moose and other similar animals. This cannot be done without having consequences for both the people living and travelling in the forest and the surrounding nature. Because when large fences are set up, it will create unnatural obstacles for animals who already live in the forest and who have some migration patterns in search of food. And it's not natural to fence nature. Therefore, it will also mean obstacles, not only to nature, but also to the people who travel and live in the area, cultivate outdoor life, walk the dog or take a walk with the children. If you cannot travel in a natural area unhindered, you will naturally go to neighbouring forests to live out your open air life, and this can result in a concentration of the visits and thus a significantly greater wear on nature in the forest and nature areas adjacent to the national parks. At any rate, we have had an opportunity in our committee to do so, and that is a concern which we are also addressing. One thing is access, another is the responsibility for the events that can happen in national parks. A number of questions have also been raised about how to deal with an accident. comes out with a kindergarten on a tour and there is one of these big up to 700 kg heavy steers that gets the scent of a lunch or whatever it should be. It could also be a reaction from the animals if a dog comes by on an air trip, or a cyclist on his exercise. Another key element that has also been raised in the debate on the establishment of natural parks is also a concern that we have asked about several times, again today too, in relation to animal welfare and the neglect of the animals to be introduced into the areas. Why should animal welfare protection rules be more relaxed, with derogations in the areas, in relation to the rules that may apply outside the areas? Fortunately, there are good examples, and that is where the nuances come in. The Minister mentioned, for example: Also Almindingen on Bornholm, which is a good example of how to find a solution and is on the way to finding it at least. I also understand from the locals that it is one of the largest, almost the second largest tourist destinations on Bornholm, only surpassed by our all-out Hammershus. This shows that it is possible to create a proper involvement of local actors, neighbors and users, etc., if solutions are made both in size and in format that can be handled. Then there will also be much greater local support for both better nature and enhanced biodiversity. Perhaps large grassers cannot be put out in all places, just as there is no need to be fenced in places where it causes great discomfort to the local area. On the other hand, it could perhaps be considered to include even more areas of wild and untouched nature in the future, so that overall biodiversity is strengthened. At any rate, we are prepared to discuss these things, because it is no surprise that it is we who were in charge of the introduction of natural parks when we had the office of Minister for the Environment and Food. However, our approach has been somewhat different from that which is now being proposed. This applies both to the size of the scale, animal welfare, local involvement, access conditions, etc. And with the many challenges and concerns that have been raised since the adoption of the law, we will encourage the government to pause the process so that we can think better. We need action to strengthen biodiversity in Denmark's nature, but it must work, and we must bring the people with us. Against this background, I would like to make a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Left, the Danish People's Party and the New Citizens' Party. It reads: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there are increasing concerns from neighbours to and users of the natural areas that may potentially be designated for future national parks. The concerns are addressed among other things. against access conditions, the safety of outdoor life in the same fenced-in areas as large grassers, the wearing down of nearby natural areas when several visitors are expected to visit them, the lack of local involvement, etc. The Folketing therefore instructs the government to wait with appointments of future national parks until these conditions have been further clarified. The Danish Parliament also notes significant expert opinions in relation to the lack of animal welfare in the legal framework for national parks. Parliament therefore requires the government to amend the law so that no derogations from the animal welfare law can be made in the national parks. Parliament calls on the government to convene negotiations so that the legal basis for future national parks can be renegotiated. • V 35).
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104326	The proposed adoption is now part of the further debate. Now we are back to the normal rules for short remarks, and first it is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104335	Thank you. After all, nothing can be adopted here in the Folketing, which has positive consequences without any negative consequences being mentioned, and that is to say that if the negative consequences of anything were to prevent it from being adopted, we could not adopt anything at all, even where the positive consequences were better and greater than the negative consequences. In this case of natural parks, the Left has chosen to speak up a great deal about the negative consequences that some people are experiencing and to use it as a reason for stopping it all and pause it and so on. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: is the idea or idea of the rapporteur of the Left that wild nature can be created with great biodiversity in Denmark without large grassers? And if the rapporteur of the Left recognizes that it is not possible, is it the view of the Left that these large grassers should be able to walk on the roads and be driven down by cars, whereby people sitting in cars can be injured by driving into a large animal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104441	No, that is absolutely not my view. I think you can make wild nature and biodiversity in some places without there being big grassers. You can also do it in other places where there must be large grassers and where you can keep track of the grassers and, of course, you have to fence them in. What I am talking about is the size, that is the way it is done, these are areas which are also being set up to identify the small villages, and as an example I can mention Lild Strand, which one can see is completely fenced in and thus being sealed off from the outside world. And when sir... Ole Birk Olesen says that we just want to put it all on hold and not want to do anything, it's not right. What we are calling for is for us to press the pause button and say: should we sit down again and review the concerns we have received in our committee and in the consultation answers from a large number of veterinarians and others, to see if there could be some things we could adjust in this, so that we can have a solution that can both benefit nature and also the people who are out there? I can hear the Minister himself saying that she has postponed the designation of recent national parks, and so it is just that I am thinking: what is the difference between postponing something and putting something on hold?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104547	Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104549	Now we are talking about areas that account for less than 1%. I understand that is too much, in other words, because the Left is too large an area where there can be large grassers. How many big grasses can there be? And how much of the nature that comes from the fact that there are large grassers, there must be in Denmark • 1⁄2%. or 0,1%. of Denmark's area? 1% is obviously too much. How much must there be of that kind of area with large grassers where there can be real nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104619	For us, it is not about the size of the land itself; it is about what we get out of it and how we can deal with it locally. It is about what we get out of the effort, and it is whether it works and whether it works in harmony with the people who live in the local areas. I referred to Almindingen as a positive example, where you have actually found out locally how it can be done, that is something you are pleased about. Great. Then I also mention a series of examples from our committee, where you have said: this is simply too much, in terms of how we should live in our local area; so it's just to have these nuances in place. For us, it's not either-or. It is, in fact, to find solutions that can make both nature and people happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104656	Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104658	Thank you for your speech to the rapporteur. It's always exciting to discuss some of those things. Many issues have been raised by the rapporteur of the Left, it may be said: it is animal welfare, there are plenty of concerns, it is the neighbouring landowners, it is the responsibility, it is the open-air people and so on. There is a crisis and the rapporteur is very concerned about biodiversity and so on. I'm just in doubt: what's the Left's plan then? What does the Left want with this? Well, I don't hear anything coming from the Left. The left must have something much better than what the government and the support parties are proposing here, since there are so many criticisms.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104739	We certainly do. If the rapporteur had listened just a little bit to what I have said both today and in committee during the various speakers who have been, then our approach to it is that we have to do these things in a way, so that both nature and where it is not a silo. Because you can do things very, very well in the New Danish state of the art, the BMW model, or whatever to call it, in an area, but if it has some consequences for the surrounding area, which means, for example, that you are working on nature and thus biodiversity in the neighbouring areas, then it can go out and become a minus point for nature as a whole. So that's the kind of thing we don't think is properly thought into in these relationships, among other things. consequences for neighbors. It's also about how to fence these areas; how big the areas can be, compared to how you live in these areas; how you have access to these areas; how you act in these areas. Almindingen on Bornholm is a good example, Rold Skov is a bad example • just to take two extremes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104832	Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104834	Thank you. Well, well, well, I'm just hearing worries again. There is not much plan to say that it should not be a silo that everyone can say. I think the government is quite clear about its plan here. Here we are talking about the fact that there are some concerns among some pilots, neighbouring owners, too big grassers and so on, but I still do not understand what the plan is, because that is not the solution to anything. There is, of course, no solution on the part of the Left. It is, in fact, just criticism of criticism all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104900	But that's not true. I'm just trying to be very nuanced here. We don't talk about everything. I mean, we are not extremists on any point, it is generally political. There are always some who have a more extreme view than we do, and that is also true here. Because we are not the ones who say that everything should be untouched, that everything should lie down, that there should be great grassers on huge areas, that everything should be fenced in, that people should give way. We do not share that view. Nor do we share the view that everything must be a production forest, that there must be no untouched forest at all, because that is also the view of people. We say there should be room for both. Because when you lay out areas for untouched forests, we think it's positive, it just has some other consequences that we have to live up to, among other things. climate targets. That is why we also think that more forest should be set up. That is just one example.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104940	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203104942	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, because I am actually pleased to hear that the Left now recognises that we have a biodiversity crisis. Because we have heard the transport rapporteur from the Left say that he was a little bit like that: Ah, I think there was not really a problem at all. So it is good that we now know that the Left is on it as well. I'd like to follow up on sir. Ole Birk Olesen's question. The rapporteur keeps saying that it's good to do something It's good to have some fenced-in areas, but not 15. How many then? Well, we're talking 1%. of the country's area on which we are now making a radical ecosystem approach. I mean, we're gonna get big grassers out and make sure we get biodiversity up. If you recognise that there must be an ecosystem-based approach and large grassers in some places, what percentage of Denmark's area is it if it is not 1%? out of 100? Well, it's 99% we don't do it on, and 1% we do it on. If it is not 15 • 15 throughout Denmark • how many is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105045	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105046	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, which I normally see as very intelligent, actually disappoints me a little bit. This isn't about land; it's not about numbers. It is about what we get out of it all for our biodiversity and our nature. That's how I see this. And that is why I have to say again that there are places where it can be done and where it is an area of a size and a geography and a biology that can be done, but there are also other areas of these areas that can potentially be identified, where I believe that this cannot be done, because it simply has too great and violent consequences. Now I mention Rold Skov; it is suggested that you cut it right in the middle, and then you have an east and a west forest. One can mention the example of Lild Strand, where you have a village that is completely fenced from the surrounding area. There are other examples; in Tisvilde there were demonstrations the other day, and the neighbors are very, very concerned about what is going to happen etc. etc. And it is only in relation to those things that I say that we will have to talk about these concerns and whether there is something that can be adjusted in the postponement that the Minister himself says she is in the process of discussing. And I haven't mentioned the animal welfare part at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105154	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105155	Five areas have been identified so far, and the rapporteur then makes a point of talking about areas which have not been designated. So I don't understand that concern. Then the rapporteur mentions that there have been demonstrations around the Tisvilde Hegn • yes, and lots of inquiries going in the other direction. But this is all about land. Nature is under pressure. Nature has one need, and that's space. And that's land. So if it's not 1% you want to spend on it, what is it you want to spend on nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105233	But why, and that's what I don't understand... should it be exactly this model? Why should it be exactly with fences, grassers of a certain size and a certain number? Why does it have to? I just ask whether it could not be the case that there are some places where it can be made, because it can make sense, and there are other places where it can be made in a different way, where there are no grassers, where there are open and where there are no fences, and then we might all get better use and thus a stronger biodiversity. I think it is appropriate to include this in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105252	Thank you. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105255	Thank you so much. I would like to start by saying that there is a difference between grassers and browsers. one of the things that has been brought up in the debate • where browsers mainly feed on the trees and the grasses so openly off the grass, in order to make it completely simplistic. So that is also one of the things that needs to be brought into the debate. What we are contesting is that it is now flying around with strawmen that you do not care about nature and so on. Nature is important. In New Citizens we are very committed to preserving our nature; it is part of our cultural heritage that we must pass on to future generations. But there is something I also said and asked the Minister about before, which I really just want the rapporteur of the Left to confirm: if you really think that animals should not go and suffer in these fenced-in areas because I think we can all agree that nature parks are quite fine, but fences in which you keep wild nature inside and animals inside, so that they can go and starve, we do not think that the rapporteur of the Left can really just confirm that if you really cared about animal welfare, you could simply remove the possibility of the derogation that is available for dispensing from the animal welfare law?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105401	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105403	Yes, and that is one of the things we have been questioning all along. I know that explanations are coming from the other way, but I simply do not understand the explanations in the sense that if you think that there should be the same animal welfare in the natural parks as outside, then it must also be the same rules that apply in the natural parks as outside, including supervision. So, yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105423	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105425	Thank you. At least it was important to us. And then I'm actually just gonna end with this: if you look at this in such a low-practical way, I guess it's basically just upstairs, I'm sorry, I'm saying it's twisted people's heads, that wild nature has to be kept behind high fences. Well, for the vast majority of people it doesn't make any sense. So yes, thank you to nature, no, thank you to animal cruelty on the account of the state behind high fences.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105451	I'm not gonna make a shrink about it. But I agree that we need to have the nuances with that, at least, is the view we stand on. We have to have the nuances, it cannot be one model that applies everywhere, and I actually heard the Minister say that, so there are different ways to do it. I just think that what is being put up here is too simplistic; it's just big fences, it's grassers all these places. So I ask: could one not try to make it in a perhaps a little more subdued form in the places where it presents challenges and, on the other hand, perhaps involve other areas, perhaps also private areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105527	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105530	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I am therefore pleased that the rapporteur emphasises that the Left is not an extremist party in this context, and I assume that the rapporteur does not agree either, when the Left Transport rapporteur has said that natural parks represent a fundamentalist, non-existent and uncompromising view of nature. This is, in my view, a relatively extremist point of view. However, I find it a little difficult to grasp where the Left really stands in terms of how we are going to deal with the biodiversity crisis. Because, on the one hand, the rapporteur says that we must do something and, on the other hand, the rapporteur says that it has consequences. But that is exactly the point: we are going to set aside some land where, for reasons of biodiversity, we have to say that nature has the right of priority here and that it will, of course, be given and then, in cooperation with the local population, we need to find out what the consequences are and how we get information and information about it. However, does the rapporteur not agree that a prerequisite for the creation of natural parks is that it has consequences for human behaviour?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105633	Thank you. And then we get answers from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105639	Yes, it has consequences, and in our view the problem is also what we hear from people who come in committee that it can also have negative consequences overall for nature. Well, it may be that you can do something within the fence and that it can create something better biodiversity, but it has negative consequences, among other things. for CO2 You have to think about that in the overall picture. And that's why part of our plan is among other things. to say that then we must at least compensate for this by some better afforestation programmes in relation to production forests, for example, so that we sort of take these things out. In terms of how we involve the local areas, I am really glad that Enhedslisten is on it too. This is just not the impression you get when you listen to the people who live in the areas and who can see that they get their village fenced in and that to get down to the farm and shop they have to go through these areas where there will be large grassers and where there are children who have to ride to school etc. I think we should take this much more seriously, and that is why we are just saying quite quietly: could we not try to look at this before those areas are designated so that those citizens feel better involved and better heard?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105741	Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105742	It is quite true that there is also CO 2 2 But what I would like to ask is that when professional knowledge and science say that what is essential for creating biodiversity is that there are large, interconnected areas where there is also the possibility of exposing large grassers, does the rapporteur not agree that if we are to have an eco-based approach to how we create biodiversity, that is what is the advice from science and professional knowledge?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105817	I believe that the attitude of science in this case is, as in many other cases, more nuanced than that. It depends on who you ask. So that's one element. But I would say that there are other elements besides having a one-eyed focus on this, in relation to how large the areas should be. It's about what we get out of it all. Now I have talked a lot about this with neighbouring consequences; I therefore believe that, after all, we also have an obligation to take account of the people who live out there. In fact, I also believe that biodiversity can be strengthened without causing such negative consequences as are being proposed and the concerns raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105854	Thank you. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203105856	Thank you. I just think that we should have cemented up, especially after the Minister's speech... that this is about people's concerns in relation to all this. As usual, the minister talks about biodiversity and that we may not be fully involved, etc. Let us make it clear; we are. But I also have to say with the rapporteur that what is the problem is the large grassers who are fenced in. Now we've just been through the fact that somebody could read it that pours hay over, as the animals gaggle in it, as long as it's possible at all, because it's being removed again. Well, they're starving. Of course you can create biodiversity, but you should not let animals starve. It's the animals that pay a price for beetles and larvae and butterflies, and I don't know what. I just don't think it's okay. And I am of the opinion that I agree with the rapporteur. Can biodiversity really be created only by starving large animals? And they do; they have a low life span, they're starving, they're not feeling well, especially in this time of year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110001	Well, that is not my impression, because it would be awful if it were the only way, that is, to let large animals starve, and sometimes, as we have seen in the mountains of Mol, starve to death. If that was the only way to create better biodiversity, then we had a challenge. But I do acknowledge that exposing grassers can be part of the solution, part of the tool, but that is definitely not the only thing. And that is why I will never compromise animal welfare, even when we talk about national parks. That is why, in our proposal for adoption, we are calling for that part to be removed, so that we have at least the same rules of supervision within the fences as outside the fences.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110040	Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110041	Well, I totally agree, because this is a matter of derogation. Well, the state can do anything, the farmer can't. But for the land of the state, you get that derogation. I have experienced it myself and seen a farmer stand and show his animals and should live by the rules, which is absolutely all right, and then I go straight on to Mol's Mountains, where it is absolutely not okay, and where you even lie to me I never forget that when I ask about a horse that has this thing around the ear. It was just the season, as soon as the cave fell off, it would fall into place. 14 days later, a veterinarian said to sedate the animal and operate it. That was really mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110121	Well, you should never lie to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, but, of course, you should not lie to Mrs Kjærsgaard in general. My approach to this is that the rules that must apply to all of us must also apply to natural parks. Then work will have to be organized accordingly. If it becomes more complicated in terms of monitoring because the flocks are spreading and what else we have been given by explanations, then that must be part of the effort. It must not be the case that animals are going to suffer because we now think that other rules should be made inside as well as outside. I can only imagine and see examples of outcry when there is a private pilot, a farmer who has an animal welfare problem. That must also apply to the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110159	Then it's mr. Brian Bressendorff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110201	Thank you. We keep talking about these animals, and we keep making such a comparison between the farmer's animals and those animals that have to live in a kind of wildness in large areas of national parks. In my world we have come very far from nature when we believe that we can compare conventional agriculture with wild nature. Could the rapporteur not explain to me a little whether he thinks that animals will starve in these national parks, even though exactly the opposite is actually being said by the Minister, and that is actually what is being proposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110244	Experience scares me to say so. And that's why we have that concern. If that is the case and I take the Minister's word for good goods, I always do, until the opposite is proven, of course, then I am all the more puzzled as to why there is a need to make lax rules. Why, then, should a derogation be made if it is so that it is said that animals are as well within the fence as outside the fence and that supervision will be as good inside as outside? Well, then, why do you have to have that opt-out? That is what we are trying to propose, namely whether or not we should take that part away, because then we will have that concern less to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110318	Brian Bressendorff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110319	However, the rapporteur does not recognise that a clear response will be made to ensure, as the Minister also says, if we hit very hard winters or dry summers, that there will then be consequences. You start making sure the animals are okay, of course. Don't you realize that that preparedness has already been planned?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110340	Yeah, but you can think in all the tools you want. If you say that it is quite okay and that there are no animals that are going to starve or suffer here, why should you have a derogation? And I just want to ask the opposite: I know that maybe the procedure isn't whether the Social Democrat rapporteur can guarantee that there will be no animals that are going to starve or are going to suffer by making that derogation and thus having a more relaxed supervision inside the national parks than outside. I don't think social democracy can give that guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110408	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110409	Thank you for a good speech, which also sounds out of love for nature and also of certain concerns, for example. in relation to access to natural parks. I had the pleasure of being with the forester from Kronjylland myself. We were looking at potential natural parks at Mols. He's also involved in making Fussingø. He said: all the paths and roads leading into the areas that will become the future national parks will also lead into the national parks when we get them made; they can be small gates, and they can be wider gates, but all the places where there is now access will also be access in the future. Will the rapporteur help to spread the happy message that those who work specifically with it are working on the fact that all the paths and roads that lead into those areas are still going to lead away into those areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110505	I would like to help spread the good news that is at all. That is also why I am trying to sign for the remarks in my speech. I am really trying, to the best of my ability, to give these nuances on this issue, because we are not opposed to creating a national natural park that should help promote our nature and biodiversity, absolutely not. But we are opposed to the elements that I am trying to outline here, which we think could be done differently. So when Mr. Torsten Gejl just mentions that the access routes etc. I'm gonna keep going, and I think it's fine. The problem is when you get into the park. Here there's a growing concern about what happens when you meet these big flocks. What happens to the kids from kindergarten? What happens to the rider and the dog walker? These are the concerns we raise. However, with regard to access conditions and access routes, it is positive that they are maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110547	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110548	The rapporteur also addresses a concern as to whether the wild animals of the forest can enter and leave the parks. I've lived in the country for 25 years, among other things. next to a peasant, and I asked him: Can the deer come in and out of your enclosures for the cows, i.e. of a double-tapped live fence? He said: I saw it one morning; kl. 5:00 in the morning I looked out of my kitchen window, and there was a deer that had entered the enclosure; it sat down on the tail and then jumped over. So does the rapporteur recognise that in all the national parks where we are going to work with wire fences, i.e. double-stranded electric fences, the deer and wolves will be able to move freely in and out of the parks for that matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110631	That is a very good question, because it shows the nuance. It just shows that this isn't either-or. But it is my impression that that is the case in those places, and that is also the case, sir. Ole Birk Olesen was in the process of exposing the big grassers, the idea is that they should stay inside the area. I don't want them interfering with traffic and whatever else it is. So there will of course be a limitation in where they can seek food and what sort of migration patterns they can have. And as for deer, deer, etc. In the parks, I think that if one of the big grassers can't get out, the fence will be so solid that the deer won't be able to get out either. These are some of the things we have a concern about. So if you can shade it in relation to the size of fences, etc., then it is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110706	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110707	Well, it's almost impossible to ask a question to sir. Jacob Jensen, because it is simply so unclear what the Left wants. In other words, we recognise that there is a biodiversity crisis and that it may be good for some large grassers; but it is also a little sin if anyone is afraid of the animals, and it is also a little too bad if there are any fences. On the other hand, I do not assume that the animals should go out and eat from the farmer's fields. Well, it is no secret that there are a lot of considerations that have to be balanced in some way. That is what we are going to look at when we select the specific natural parks when we make the concrete management plans. But what the Left wants right now is to take a timeout. And then I have to say, Nature doesn't have the time to take a timeout. And I am also a little in doubt about what it is that you want to achieve with that timeout when you are standing and really can't really say what you want, but really just advocate all opinions at once. Finally, someone has to show some leadership, and of course, at the same time as listening to the locals in open-air life, you listen to the biologists and those who understand it. Finally, we must take responsibility and ensure solutions that ensure biodiversity, but of course also ensure an open-air life. What exactly are we supposed to be waiting for?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110817	Then Mrs Zenia Stampe managed to ask a question, although I had to understand that it was quite impossible. Well, I'm just saying that the Minister himself says that we have now postponed it for a few months, because it was supposed to have been appointed by Christmas. Now we're talking February, and maybe it'll be a while longer. We do not know that for good reasons, but we can, of course, ask the Minister when she expects an appointment to be made. Then it is just that I say: what is the difference between wanting to postpone something, because there are some things that need to be clarified, and then pause what we are proposing here today in order to get deeper into these many, many concerns which apparently do not affect Mrs Zenia Stampe and the Radical Left. But it does affect us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110852	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110852-2	It's a lie to say it doesn't affect us. It also affects us. And we will take these concerns seriously on a case-by-case basis; that is why we have given ourselves more time to select, so that we can hear about the concerns that have been expressed in relation to every natural area, and that is what we are doing in relation to the specific management plans. But what I would like a clear answer to is: what are we waiting for? That's what Mr. So Jacob Jensen and the Left are proposing today, it is in reality that we amend the legislation that has been adopted, in other words take it out with the big grassers, because that is really what is the stumbling block, and that is what the Left wants to take out of the natural national parks. Then I just think that we should have a clear answer to that, because it is an absolutely crucial element for biodiversity. I would like an answer as to whether that is what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110931	The answer now comes from the rapporteur. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203110933	So, we would like the law to be amended, and that is also why we are proposing in our draft text for adoption that new negotiations be convened so that we can address and adjust and change those things, and so that we can meet some of these many, many concerns. It's both about the animal welfare part, which we have also talked about a lot, but it's also about the size and design; i.e. the size of the areas that are fenced in, the number of grassers, whether they're starving or not starving, about the supervision of all these things. There are plenty of things that we believe have not been elucidated. Then it is fine that Mrs Zenia Stampe says that she takes the concerns seriously and listens and everything, but action is needed, and that is what we are proposing with our adoption text.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111012	Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111013	I can do it very precisely: should I hear it in such a way that the rapporteur believes that there is a serious biodiversity crisis in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111026	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111028	Mrs. Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111030	Thank you. If the crisis recognised by the rapporteur is so serious, why does the Left want to pause it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111035-2	I should like to ask: why does the Social Democrats want to postpone when these appointments will be made? Well, I just don't see the difference. After all, it is a question of • and I assume that this is why the postponement has taken place • that concerns have been raised in our committee, including among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. We are simply trying to squash ourselves and say: then we want to join in. And we point to some of the advantages of natural parks, but we also point to some of the challenges and things that we think should be done about, so that we do better for people and animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111112	Thank you for that! Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111114	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the rapporteur on the environment for a good speech and a very good answer in this debate. I don't think it's surprising that I mean that. I have been looking forward to this debate, but it annoys me that you start by doing unfine methods and dirty tricks in this debate. For what the SF rapporteur, Rasmus Nordqvist, said a moment ago, where he shot me in the shoes, that I do not recognise that there is a biodiversity crisis and that nature needs to get better, is simply below the low level, I would say. And the Minister for the Environment came to imply the same thing. I wrote back a speech at the end of November, in which, unfortunately, I did not get a sentence that should have been included, namely that we obviously have a biodiversity crisis. I corrected that a few days later, and I can prove it in black and white. And if you're not aware of it, I'll be happy to send you the post. But don't use such unfine methods as shooting someone else in the shoes and saying something that doesn't fit. We have a biodiversity crisis. We need to strengthen nature. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur if he can confirm that there is a complete battle in the Left, but that we are simply opposed to the either-or-concept that the government brings (Thank you, Mr President). Kristian Pihl Lorentzen!) and will provide a holistic solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111224	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen! The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111229	I'm super happy with the positive comments... no, now we have to take this seriously, because it's serious. Yes, I can confirm that there is a complete basis for these things, and there are also footsteps in that we would like to enter into the continuing debate and, in this way, we would like to get these things right. I think that is actually a popular government. There is legislation being made, various proposals are being made, various hearings are being held, and then there is a series of concerns from the people from users, from organisations, from professionals, from veterinarians and others. We take that seriously as a government and enter into a debate and say: okay, are there things here that we can adjust? It's not like we're gonna put it in the grave. That's not what we're talking about. We are talking about the fact that we want to do things that work and that work in context and not only on a specific area, but work in the overall nature of a whole to the delight of humans and animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111321	Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111321-2	Thank you for another wise answer. Then I hope that from now on we can have a sober and objective debate without shooting at each other something that is not right. Otherwise, I would like to emphasise once again what the rapporteur said, namely that it is absolutely essential that the users, the local populations who have to live with what comes out of this are involved from the outset. Can the rapporteur confirm that it is probably one of the very, very big mistakes that the government has made here that we come up with a concept that we then want the local people to deal with afterwards, instead of talking to the local people first?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111355	I fully agree that the order must be that you first involve and ask for advice, and then you come up with your plans. So I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111403	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments that I can see, and that means that we can go further in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203111431	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor, and thank you to my colleague from the Left for a fine motivation. There is no doubt that this is a rather important subject, I would say, among other things. on behalf of the Government, and I would like to begin by thanking the authors for giving us the opportunity to discuss more nature and, of course, the concerns surrounding it today. Because there is no doubt, as the Minister also mentioned, that nature is in crisis, and unfortunately we have known this for a very, very many years. But it is only now that we are really starting to come up with solutions which, as I see it, are really, really exciting and which can really be the right solutions in relation to the decline in biodiversity in Denmark. Our animal and plant species are in decline, we know that and many species are at risk of extinction. By international scientists, the decline in species worldwide is called the sixth mass extinction. The speed is therefore disturbing, and unfortunately it continues. But the natural crisis is here, in Denmark, and it really is, and we have to respond to that. In Denmark 52 per cent are employed. of Danish bird species at risk of extinction. It's quite a lot, though, considering that there are about 400 of them. 44 per cent of our Danish bee species are dying out, and I must honestly admit that I do not know so much about bee species, so I thought: How many can it be? But it is still out of 292 different bee species, so it is well over 100 bee species that are dying out in Denmark alone, and we simply cannot ignore that. Nature needs space. It needs large, coherent areas where nature is more just nature, and this, of course, makes a report after report. In our small country we also have to make room for nature, and we do so, of course, with the national parks. There have been grounds for concern, and this is of course something that we have to say in the debate over and over again, also in relation to the motivation for the debate itself. There have also been concerns as to whether any animals at risk are now well off, and we have discussed a great many times whether it can be dangerous to be in a national park and whether we can still do our outdoor activities in the national parks. The answer, of course, is that animal welfare is and must be in order. No animal must be harmed, and if they do, it is a mistake, and then it must be corrected. That is why we have the authorities to ensure that those errors are corrected. The same is true today, and of course it will be the same for the future. After all, we have heard the Minister say that many times. It is an unreasonable claim that it is bad animal welfare to let animals walk freely in the national parks and live a natural life. It is not dangerous to be in the national parks, and everyone should feel welcome in the national parks. Meeting a large grazing animal is something that very many people in this country are not used to because we have come really, really far away from nature. I'm not used to meeting big grasses myself. I've done it many times, but we just haven't learned it, and unfortunately I think that's something we're gonna have to look over to our children and grandchildren and say they're gonna be part of it, and we're gonna have to help teach them that so they learn to live in nature, also in wild nature. But it is an incredibly great experience, I would say, to see animals in their natural habitat, and of course we must take seriously the concerns that are out there from the citizens. So do we, and we must continue to do so. The vast majority of open-air activities can continue in national parks. A total of 5 million has been set aside. kr. to each national park to support outdoor life, to provide space for outdoor activities, and to provide space for all people in the national park. Since 2020, together with the Radicals, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, we decided to give nature a historic boost of 888 million. kr. In addition, we have been concerned about ensuring involvement, and this has been going on for a few years soon. We have both scientific working groups and stakeholder working groups that follow our work. The Ministry of the Environment collected proposals where there were well over 200 bids for where there could be a national park. The Danish Nature Agency has held migrations in the areas and made a gross list of the last ten national parks. For each area there are more than 16 local units in the Danish Nature Agency, which of course must also be available for questions and concerns from citizens; they do so today, and of course they must also do so in the future. I would like to thank the authors again for giving us the opportunity to discuss national parks and, of course, the concerns, no doubt about that. National parks will benefit nature and biodiversity and, above all, our children and grandchildren. I understand that there is a proposal for adoption. Please read it out). Yes, there is. On behalf of Enhedslisten, SF, Radical Left, Alternative and S, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The UN Nature Panel (IPBES) has concluded in 2018 that biodiversity in Europe is in a persistent, strong decline. The Danish Parliament stresses that biodiversity is in crisis globally and natural national parks are an important element in a vital strengthening of Denmark's nature and biodiversity. At the same time, national parks must contribute to more exciting natural experiences for the Danes. The Danish Parliament recognises that several measures have been taken to involve stakeholders and to address the concerns of the location of the next national parks. The two national working groups and the relevant municipalities and ministries have been able to provide input through the process. Local nature migrations have been organised and local project groups are set up in the areas where natural parks are designated. Parliament stresses that the dialogue should continue with inter alia: open-air organisations, municipalities and citizens in the local areas in order to address raised concerns and find good local solutions for nature and open-air life. • V 36)
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112055	That too will now be part of the further debate. We start with a series of brief remarks. First, it's sir. Hans Christian Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112100	Thank you. I have been sitting here listening to both the Minister and Mr. Peder Hvelplund and others who have said that the whole core is biodiversity. Everything you do here is to improve biodiversity. It's what it's supposed to be. You may have different views on it, but it is certainly a noble purpose. What I just want to know is whether what is being done now also leads to more biodiversity. So I would just like to ask whether it was the case that the rapporteur could try to tell me what evidence, what conclusions, what reports, what evidence has been presented, so that it is known that what is happening now, when nature is fenced, is exposing livestock to rewilderment in national parks, results in increased biodiversity. What are these reports or articles or evidence that show that this is the solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112202	Well, thank you. Thank you for also recognising that there is, of course, a solution and that a solution must be found to the biodiversity requirements. It is the case that, both in committee, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, in which the questioner is also present, we are regularly presented with technical reports which point out that there are problems with biodiversity. After all, the red list of animals is a good example of the fact that there are problems with the biodiversity crisis, and it is so widely recognised that we have a problem that we have to solve. There are, of course, natural parks also part of that solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112238	Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112239	Now I've been in here for a long time, and I know how to answer something without answering it. As is happening right now, that is what I want to say to listeners who come with us. This is because the rapporteur has no idea what to think of reports. I have never seen them, and I am also on that committee. That is why I would just like to give the rapporteur another chance. The minister must also be allowed to have it. And if the Minister will not reply today, the Minister will reply to a consultation. I want to know which reports, which evidence is the basis for this giving more biodiversity. And it won't shock me if no one knows where that material exists, because I don't think anyone knows that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112319	The questioner has, of course, seen a point in saying that I cannot juggle all sorts of scientific reports on a stand-by basis. Of course I'm sorry, that's how it is to be a layman. I'm not a scientist like that. I only take into account what we hear, both in committee and in the debates that are now going on. I'd love to post it because there's piles. I am sure the Minister would like to point out later some of the places where it is written. This is also something that has been emphasised several times, including in consultation, where the questioner has received an answer to it earlier. So, of course, I would like to send it to the questioner later.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112355	Thank you. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112356	Thank you. It was a rather difficult proposal for adoption that was read out. It may be that we should have it again. But I just want to relate a little to what's going on in these national parks. Now we have talked about animal welfare, and it is very, very important, but there is also some kind of accessibility which is so greatly prevented. I've visited a few of them myself. In other words, we compromise on animal welfare, but they are fenced in such a way that access for those who otherwise live in the areas is really made more difficult if it is not completely impossible. People can't walk around airing their dogs, kindergartens have trouble visiting, because there is a legitimate fear of the large animals.The smell of a lunch was mentioned.The disabled cannot get out there with their wheelchairs. The areas are transformed into weary areas filled with cow boxes so you don't want to move in the areas. Well, it's not alone, and then we won't benefit from nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112501	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112503	Thank you. There is no doubt that the Social Democratic Party is also keen to have access to the future national parks, including the existing national parks. And I'm a little sad that the questioner thinks that weird cow boxes are an obstacle to getting into the national parks. I must honestly admit that I actually think that is a shame. There are fears of large animals, but that is what some groups of the population are also living in the area, and we take this very seriously. After all, it is an information work that we must all be a part of and something that we must all try to solve. We must be involved in dialogue; that is why money has been set aside for it, so that we can engage in dialogue on how local citizens can see themselves in this project, how they can see their access to the area, so that we can solve the problems as well as possible. Of course, there must be access for ordinary citizens, kindergartens, people who are afraid of large grassers and cow boxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112607	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112608	Well, it's just not there. Well, now we're gonna look at it, and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, For example: Can a mountain biker who comes and has to open one of these gates do it, but what about a wheelchair user who's going over one of these cousins that I've also been out to see? I mean, there are so many limitations to this because they say that this is all about biodiversity. That's one thing. The second point is: why on earth should there be a derogation? I simply do not understand why we should not treat all animals in the same way as the farmer and those in the wild. There shall be no derogation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112646	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112647	Unfortunately, I do not have much time to answer the question when we have such a tough President. But the questioner points out that there is no such access. No, because we have not identified the last ten areas. We are in dialogue with the first five. It is only now that the process is really starting. This is brand-new. National parks in Denmark are completely new; no one has tried it before. After all, this is the first time we have really got some nature that needs to lie down completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112721	I would like to stress that we do not have a tough President. In fact, we have just a President who complies with the Rules of Procedure, and when I stand up, it is actually after you have exceeded your speaking time. Then it's mr. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112734	Thank you for that, President. As we can also sense here today, the debate on natural parks is something that leads to a heated discussion. This is also the case in Lejre Municipality, where the Bidstrup Forests are located. There have been a large number of citizens, local associations and institutions very concerned about these potential plans to fence Bidstrup Forests. And when you listen to these local citizens, it's special security, animal welfare, accessibility and fences that give them frowns. In Lejre, a town council has actually been consulted, because here a unanimous council, including the rapporteur's own party, has said 'no' to it. They don't want the Bidstrup Forests fenced in. That is why I really would like to hear today: does it not make an impression on social democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112828	Indeed, I am so impressed as rapporteur when there are some elected representatives who say that they are not interested, as they hear and see it, that there must be these national parks. That is precisely why we are engaging in dialogue with them. That is precisely why we are starting to discuss with people in these areas what else we can do. That's why the Minister for the Environment is more or less on a daily basis communicating about this area. I am also trying to communicate as much as possible, and also daily, about this area. So it makes an impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112904	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112906	If it makes such an impression, why does the Social Democrats not say that they have listened to the local concerns, and that is why they are now paused and taking another round at the negotiating table, rethinking it and involving some of the local stakeholders who are concerned? But what you are experiencing locally right now is a rapporteur and a government party saying: we are listening and it makes a great impression, but not so much that we are actually going to change anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203112939	After all, it is already a process that has been pushed somewhat further than we had originally planned. That is precisely because we take seriously the concerns which, among other things, we have. comes from Lejre Municipality in connection with the Bidstrup Forests, which the questioner also mentions. We must, of course, engage in dialogue. I also have the feeling that, to be honest, the questioner is taking the area hostage in this debate, because I have also heard positive statements from the area. I have also heard positive tones and heard that you are actually interested in this. You are nervous and you are worried in some areas, such as: can be connected with a fence; this is something you want to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113021	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113022	Thank you. There is no doubt that in this debate there is agreement on the objective, and that is good, namely that we need more nature; we need better biodiversity. What we are discussing is the means. It is well known that the government has this concept that is now to be implemented. It's all about getting these large fenced-in areas, which is roughly 12 per cent. of Denmark's forest area and then you base yourself on rewilding as this wonder drug to strengthen biodiversity. After all, the rest of us are trying to have a more balanced approach, and we would like to use a slightly wider range of instruments and at least involve the users. The rapporteur said that this was completely new. That's what it is. It's completely new. I guess that's why so many people around here are worried about this. So, since it is such a huge change that is taking place around here and an enclosing of forests and associated lands, can the rapporteur not understand that there is a need for time for us to have this debate; that people can be more confident about it, influence it and so on, because it is precisely something completely new?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113131	But I really hear two questions in the longer question from the rapporteur. It's first that it's part of it. In other words, once we have precisely identified the areas in which it should now be, we must, of course, engage in dialogue. We must, of course, discuss this with the citizens concerned. And then it's the rewilding thing, that's... Wild nature, you might call it a wonder drug. I don't know. It's just nature. Rewilding is just nature. It's just nature that's taken care of itself. I know that we in Denmark have not had it for many hundred years, so there is nowhere in Denmark where nature has been allowed to care for itself over very long periods, but that is what we want to do out here, because it is good for biodiversity, as the rapporteur also points out, is a challenge. So, without making it sound wrong, I simply embrace the rapporteur's concerns about biodiversity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113227	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113228	Unfortunately, I did not get a commitment that more time is needed to debate such a whole new thing here. Then I'll go over to another thing. Here's one of the plans that threatens, if I may say so. It's nature park Vester Thorup in Thy. If the rapporteur looks down here, you can see that a fence has simply been made that fences a village called Lild Strand, so that the residents have to go through a ferryist, through this fenced-in area with large grazing animals over one more ferryist to get to Use or whatever. Does the Socialist rapporteur think that it is okay to come up with such a plan for a local population, barely showing that people live here without asking them first?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113310	Thank you. It's very hard to see it from here. It is also difficult for the rapporteurs when we not only use the spoken word. So we have to settle for the spoken word in this Chamber. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113316	Thank you for that, President. Well, there's gonna be time. There's time, and there'll be time to discuss this too. It is not the case that we stop all dialogue and all kinds of discussions just because we designate an area to be a national park. It doesn't work that way, of course it doesn't. Do we fence these places, i.e. the potentially 21 different areas, which are supposed to be national parks? No, that's not the point. I'm sorry when I hear that there are local residents who feel fenced in because there's a shuttle coming and there's wire fence around it. I am very sorry to hear that, and that is of course something we must take seriously. That is also something we need to engage in dialogue with those around.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113354	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113356	Thank you. I think it's a good thing that Thy is being used as an example. For almost 17 years now, I have represented Thy here at Christiansborg, and Thy is a perfect example of how to make a good story for me. Pilot projects were set up in different locations around the country, and local visits were made to see oneself in being a national park. It was not all pilot projects that came into being because there was a local opportunity to say no. Four years were spent from the start of the project, and I should like to say that there was very great local resistance among sections of the population. But through a super, objective and inclusive process, you ended up with a National Park Thy, which has become a huge success. Why does the government only want to involve locals after the appointment?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113507	Oh, maybe it's just as crazy to say that we're only going to involve people after we've identified an area. In other words, we have already explained that there have been involvements; there have already been natural migrations in the area. After all, we have also been in contact with representatives of those elected in the area. So there are also those involved. In addition, we also have the Danish Nature Agency's local departments, which we also have the opportunity to contact, plus that the citizen involvement does not disappear simply because we designate an area. So I think that is quite an important point, including in this case here. And then I think that the questioner has a very good point about the fact that the second project that was discussed had had an objective dialogue. Exactly. That's what we want. We would like there to be a factual, real dialogue out there; that we should discuss: what is going on in this matter? What do you really want? How can we best involve the citizens who are now? Of course there has to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113606	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113607	Unfortunately, however, what the rapporteur says is not true. In response to replies, the Minister for the Environment has written to the Committee on the Environment and Food that local project groups will be set up after that is where the problem lies. That is why we are seeing repeated presentations of delegations in the Committee on the Environment and Food with local representatives who feel run over. Because they've got a walk with the Nature Agency out in the area, and that's it. Why is it that a thorough dialogue is not being sought so that this can develop into a success?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113648	There is no doubt that we have already established a dialogue. Whether or not it should be more thorough is possible, and then it is clear that we will do so. I myself, as rapporteur, have also been out in as many areas as I have been able to have time for. I think there have been some very good debates. Unfortunately, I have not been up in Thy area, which was specifically mentioned. It's not supposed to. Well, it's as if the sky is falling just because we're assigning an area to a national park. It doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113726	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113727	Sir. Morten Dahlin pointed to a specific area, namely the Bistrup Forests, where you also have the same concerns as you have so many of the other places that can potentially be designated, but the Bistrup Forests are also part of a national park, not to confuse with a national park, and why would that not be a good idea, I think? So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether he does not agree with trying to involve national parks somewhat more, because, as Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen mentions, they have just proved to be a success. And why is that? Yes, they are, among other things. because you have involved people, you have made a board of directors where you can have local actors, pilot owners, organisations, etc. on the table, and when you do different projects to promote biodiversity or dissemination, or whatever it may be, you have a good talk with the various stakeholders, and then you find a solution that fits locally. Why not deal more with how it is organized, instead of bringing it, what should I say, one size fits all-solution, and then it should otherwise be dragged down over the heads of the people living in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113825	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113826	Now I think it is a little too bad that we refer to natural parks as one size fits all and as an incredibly complicated concept. Well, it isn't, because as I said in one of my answers just now, it's just nature. What you have chosen to do is to take one of the lands of the state, and then it is to designate it as just nature, where nature is allowed to care for itself, and then you have some big grassers who, of course, have to create light-open areas and create greater biodiversity, cribs, cribs and everything. Well, it's just nature. After all, it is not a question of making it much more complicated, because it really is not. Of course we must involve ourselves, and I have already answered that many times. Of course we must do so, and we must do so in particular afterwards. It does not stop here just because there are areas that have been designated as national parks.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113911	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen. No? Excuse me, sir. Jacob Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113916	Sir. Hans Andersen will come to you in a moment with an excellent question, I'm sure. What I am going to follow up on this question is in line with what Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt asked about what comes out of it. Are there any scenarios that say it's this size that it's going to have, and that if it had only half the size or another size, it would come exactly half the size? So, can the rapporteur lift the veil a little bit? We are also interested to know whether we can adjust this in such a way that, overall, we get the most out of it, and it doesn't necessarily have to be exactly these sizes, it might also be that it was smaller sizes where we might have some peripheral regions that could do something else. Is the rapporteur aware that this has been the work of the government offices?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113953	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203113954	I am aware that many different types of scenarios are being worked on. There are already management plans that are publicly available out there, as you can see, and I do not suppose that they have been made because of a lack of professionalism. But, of course, there are plans that need to be made. What is too bad about it is that it sounds a little like it's just some fancy idea that's come, and we're gonna crawl it over people's heads. But it is for years that social democracy has been clear about this being what we want: natural parks. And then there are all sorts of other concepts, such as: National parks and so on, which are not, it must be said, wild nature. It's by no means wild nature. Well, these are two very different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114039	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114040	Thank you. The rapporteur mentions that there must be room for leisure activities and mentions very, very happyly that 5 million have been allocated. kr., so you can really work with the outdoor activities. Now it is not the case that everything can be bought for money, but it might be that the Socialists should perhaps consider whether this is really the best way. Tisvilde Fence has been designated as a potential national park, and 200 people recently demonstrated against it. The insecurity is huge. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he will give a guarantee that the open-air activities that are taking place in that area today can also take place when the government and the support parties appoint the Tisvilde Hegn for future national park.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114140	It is always such a rather exciting matter when one politician starts asking the other politician if he can get some guarantees. Unfortunately, I do not know exactly all the types of leisure activities that are in the area, and I can say that one of the activities that could not be if it were now a national park, for example. is hunting. However, there may be some stock regulations, etc. With the help of locals, I've been told. But in this way it will be a false guarantee. My point to all those who live around Tisvilde Fence, and who already benefit from Tisvilde Fence and the whole area, is that they should then continue to have it. They must then continue to be able to walk; they must then continue to be able to walk; of course, wheelchair users must also be able to continue to travel on the paths and roads that have been there all along. It's important. And I hope that you will continue to do so if the area is now fortunate enough to become a national park.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114247	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114247-2	Now the rapporteur says that it might be that the area was fortunate enough to be designated as a national park. I do not believe that citizens in that area share the same view. Mountain bikers have invested millions of hours in building a mountain biking trail; it probably has an uncertain fate, the moment there is to go large grassers in the area. Sledgedog drivers have been denied access now to Naturnational Park Gribskov. Will the same thing happen to them in the Tisvil fence? Then they have no more places to drive on Zealand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114331	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114333	Thank you. I am also aware of the fact that there is a support group to create a natural park in the Tisvilde Hegn area. It's been in my meeting, I'd like to say. And I think they could see a great many perspectives in relation to if the Tisvilde Fence could become a national park. And yes, I'm happy when I stand up here talking about national parks, because I actually think it's a really good idea. And I must admit that now I come from Lolland myself and live at Lolland... that it is with some envy that I look at the areas that have the opportunity to become so. This does not mean, however, that we should not take it seriously when there are concerns in the population. Of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114411	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114412	Thank you so much. By 2020 we were given a new animal welfare law, and it is quite clear in Section 3 of the Animal Welfare Act: • Everyone who keeps animals must ensure that they are treated carefully, including that they are housed, fed, watered and cared for, taking into account their physiological, behavioral and health needs in accordance with recognised practical and scientific experience. This is the paragraph that is now being allowed to derogate from in the national parks behind fences, because it is believed that the end justifies the means, so that in the name of biodiversity it should be okay that animals should then like. There I would just like to hear the Social Democrat rapporteur: are there other purposes that are so laudable that one can depart from these rather basic provisions of the Animal Welfare Act? Are there any other areas in which we should expect the Social Democracy and Government to take the lead in allowing other groups to exempt the animal welfare law, so that we can also see animals that will suffer elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114515	It sounds a little like the questioner would like a legal answer to a legal question, and a committee question could be put to the Ministry and the legal answer would be given. For me and for the Social Democrats, it just means a great deal that animals do not, of course, suffer harm and that they are not going to starve and that they do not have the risk of dying of starvation. That's the most important thing for me. I might as well say that. As it is now, if there are any animals that are harmed, then it is a mistake that it is wrong and that then it has to be corrected. That's why we have the authority to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114549	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114550	After all, I am asking the rapporteur because the rapporteur is the rapporteur for the party which has actually led it with these national parks and the legislation which now makes it possible to derogate from what is called Section 3 of the Animal Welfare Act, which is basically about dispensing with the proper treatment of animals. So now I ask again: are there any other areas in which the rapporteur and the government and the Social Democrats want the animal welfare law to be waived, as I know all the parliamentary parties voted in favour by 2020? And should animals be given the opportunity to suffer?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114624	I think it's too bad. I mean, I think it's a shame that you insinuate that my party accepts that there are animals out there suffering. I think that's too bad. We don't. We want all animals to be properly treated, and of course they must also be treated in national parks. They have to, when they go out in a stable, and so do they when they live in the living rooms with me or others. Animals must also be properly treated and, as I said just now, they must of course also be treated in a national park. It's pretty important to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114654	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114656	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I noticed that the rapporteur said in his speech that people would now listen to the citizens and involve them and so on. If we take a look at South-Langeland, as has been pointed out in a proposal, it has now become apparent that some citizens are being fenced in, are going over the Faroe Islands and so on, and are saying 'no' to it. Does this mean that the proposal now being made to possibly set up a national park in South Langeland is removed from the list so that citizens can say: OK, who were listened, it was taken off the list again? Can you count on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114736	Well, now there is a gross list that is already there. Of course, we are looking at it, and of course we are starting from it. In relation to the specific example of South Langeland, where wild horses are already going wild, it has been a success in that locals want to go into the area, and that neighbouring locals, you can say, people who live a little further away, also want to go into the area. It is, of course, important to say that there are already Faroese people in the area, so that those horses that are there now cannot get out of the area. So what we are talking about is moving some of the borders that are already there to other areas. And there has been local support for that. These include the local Committee on the Environment and Technology. In fact, the Municipality of Langeland has called for the area to be declared a national park.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114820	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114822	In relation to the project with the wild horses and what is already there, there is full support for no problem in it. We fully agree with that. That is not the question. After all, there is a disagreement about this, and precisely the citizens who are affected say that they do not want to be fenced in. It was then that one should say: one should drop it and move the fence and start fence other citizens and then just leave the area that is there now, which is fine and good in relation to wild horses, biodiversity and everything that is included in it, as it is, because it is running well, and then one could drop the other plans. Is that what you want? Will you listen to those citizens who have concerns and who are so affected by it now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114903	Of course, we must listen to the citizens, including those who are concerned in the area. I'm not gonna stand here and tell you exactly where a limit should go. I don't have the skills to assess that. I don't really want that either. It is, of course, a dialogue with, among others. The town council of Langeland Municipality, we must of course have. And that also applies to the area of South Langeland. We must, of course, continue to do so if the area is now designated as a national park.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114928	Thank you. Then there are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur, so thank you to Mr Seligman. Kasper Roug. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, because the rapporteur of the Left is the rapporteur for the questions. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203114955	In fact, I was just asking Mr. Jacob Jensen, if it wasn't my turn, but he claimed it was his turn so you can see! It is, in fact, a serious issue that we are here to debate and there is a great deal of interest in it around. We can feel that when we get e-mails, enquiries, etc., and it is just fine that we can then take things up in this Chamber. The point of these national parks should be to create more wild nature and biodiversity, but these national parks really have nothing to do with wild nature, because when you fence the areas and put large grassers in there, that is horses, cattle, bisons, elk, etc., it is not wild nature, because the animals are put behind a fence. It's something some people play, and while some people play, the animals suffer. We just can't be familiar with that. There will certainly be more biodiversity in this area, but the problem is that we are sacrificing the big grassers to get it. These are animals for which we have a responsibility, precisely because they are put in there behind a fence, just as everyone else who keeps animals has a responsibility for those animals. However, because the intention is to create biodiversity, it is just as if any sense disappears and we just have to accept that animals suffer. But we cannot accept that in the Danish People's Party, never. But suffering, they do, because first they starve, and if they have done so long enough, they are taken out of the area and either placed somewhere else or killed. What is the task of these great grasses? It is quite simple to create greater biodiversity so that a roset plant can grow and the beetle get better living conditions. And the biologists, the fanatics and the kidneyists, for they have almost been, think that the experiments are fantastic, because they are obviously indifferent to the welfare of the animals, and the price for that is that the great grassers are tormented and starved over the winter, where the food is obviously scarce, if it is not completely absent. Therefore, they must either die or be put to death. All the while this is happening, there is an increasing dissatisfaction among all citizens who, in one way or another, find that the areas are no longer there for them. They have to watch while the tasty animals run around the areas and act as victims of the beetle and plant. I don't think anyone is against biodiversity, but they/we/I'm all against sacrificing some big animal grassers, as they are called to succeed in getting it. I know these advocates don't care about these big grassers. They just see them as something useful in a larger perspective. And their ultimate desire is that animals should live and die perfectly on the basis of nature. Well, they have to be put off in these areas, and then they can just fall down, they just like, and they can just die behind a fence. And then the carcass should preferably remain lying down so that it can be broken down and consumed by various predators, foxes and birds and by the beetle. Because in this way, a formidable nature communication can be created and you can also videotape it. That is, for some, the ultimate goal. I think it's a direct disgusting target. We are not there yet, but if we get used to seeing great tasty grassers, it is a natural next step and a step that we will never, of course, ever accept. That is why we need to stop right now. We currently have only a few national parks, and the plan is that there should be 15 in total. Other areas have simply been fenced in and exposed to large grassers. Nevertheless, we already have enormous problems around which animals have been put out, which more or less have to live by the principles of rewilding. In some places they are fed, in others they are not and should not be fed, but the principles are the same: they are put out, and it is not for their own sake, but for the sake of biodiversity. Then it is natural to shout in arms, because what we already know about we cannot under any circumstances accept further development. There is a great deal of popular opposition to these fenced-in areas, and I understand that. Does the Minister also understand this, or should the citizens just be rolled over by the Minister and her fanatical biologists, who are completely indifferent to animal welfare? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203115437	Thank you. This gave rise to a few brief comments. First, sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203115440	Well, thank you. Fantastic biologists, and the animals die of starvation. I must say that today is a tough rhetoric. I was hoping that we could have a bit of a case-by-case and quiet debate about what natural parks are and about the concerns that citizens have about animal welfare as well. After all, an untruth is no longer right by being repeated all the way or again and again. After all, it is an untruth when you say that animals should just lie and starve if they go to a national park. Of course they shouldn't. If that happens, it's a bug, and then it has to be solved. Already today there are 38,000 hectares of land in the state where there are large grassers. It's spider-knocking me a big area. It's an area far bigger than the whole Als. So already today, there are big grassers who keep it down. To me, none of them are harmed. Otherwise it will have to change, and then we will have to get the authorities in relation to this. My question is: is it the position of the DF that we should take all the great grassers away from the land of the state because you are nervous that they are going to starve? Of course they should not, and if they do, it must be prevented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203115557	Thank you. Before I give the rapporteur the floor, I would just like to say that we must have a proper language in the Chamber. Here you go, Mrs. Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203115558	Yeah, cheat words. But we just don't really understand each other or talk past each other. Because you can probably feed a supplement, and that's exactly what you don't do. You don't do it. After all, it is a fact that a great many animals are taken out, either because they are lying and feeling really bad, or because they are directly starving or injured. That is a fact. That's what you do, that's what you do! Then it has come so far that there is no end to it anymore, I think. I simply do not understand it, i.e. this winter. Now it's not that cold, but it could be the rest of February, and it's wet. And there's not much to eat, and the animals are starving. There I just think that the derogation from the animal welfare law is the one that we cannot really understand should be maintained when it is the land of the state that is being talked about, but not the farmer's.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203115655	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203115657	Thank you. Grant feeding is actually part of the preparedness if winter is so incredibly hard that the animals are starving very much. I mean, you can do one of those things. also take them out of the area. It is also part of the preparedness in these areas so that we avoid the animals dying of starvation. Of course they shouldn't. The rapporteur's colleague, René Christensen, mentioned at one point that the best showcase, in terms of having an area where large grassers actually contribute to better biodiversity, is the Bøthøskoven at his own side at Guldborgsund. Is the rapporteur not aware that others in DF think this is very exciting and that there are great opportunities; there are show windows down in Bøthøskoven, where I also come from, and they are very good examples of how the animals are doing well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203115747	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203115748	Yeah, I believe that. I believe there is. But there are certainly also examples of animals not feeling well. I know that I am not the one who has to ask questions up here, but this whole debate has been about whether there should be a derogation from the animal welfare law and why it should be. The rapporteur has not answered that question. I don't have to ask questions. It is clear that the rapporteur will answer my question from up here. I know it's not regulated, but I just think that's what we're discussing. That's what's basic. Why would there have to be a waiver in relation to this? And that is because something is not right, because there are animals starving. They must starve, because then they can eat what is not to eat, so the beetle gets better conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203115829	There is no real possibility of replying, so we shall move on to the next brief remark, which is from Mr Beyer de Ryke. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203115836	We will probably have to clarify whether the Danish People's Party thinks that there should be nature in Denmark. Because in nature the animals eat and eat in the spring and summer and in the autumn all they can and form a huddle. During the winter months, when food is more scarce, they find the food they can, but they eat on their huddles, they eat on their fat deposits. And that's how nature is so nature for grey sparrows, that's nature for red deer, that's nature for foxes. It's nature. So the question is: should we have some nature that comes in places where there are some large animals that we have exterminated in Denmark earlier • some horses, some cattle that look like bisons and aurochs? Are we gonna have that kind of nature? For then we must also accept that the animals form hollow spring, summer and autumn, and that they use their huddle in winter. But they're not gonna die of starvation. They're not gonna.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203115941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203115941-2	Well, that's what happens in many places, that's what happens. I do not want to stand here and discuss with the questioner in this way, but that is what is happening. I just have to say, why are they being fenced in? Well, it's fantastic to talk about wild nature, hurrah, on some number of square meters, but that's fenced in. It has nothing to do with wild nature. You can play that it's wild nature, but it's true that the food in winter is more sparing. In the animal garden, the animals that go out there are actually fed, and they are very, very well. But there are very many places where they are not feeling very well, because they are not being fed. And that's what's so problematic. However, if there is no rapporteur who will reply to me like from up here when you come up here why we should have that derogation from the animal welfare law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120030	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120031	Now it is a question of whether one can say that Dyrehaven is actually nature. It is a park area and there are animals there, but whether it is really nature is more doubtful. And subsidy feeding does mean that if you serve hay for cows and horses, they just eat the hay and then they don't go out into nature and find the food they can find out there in winter, which isn't grass, and thereby help create the nature that is real nature. So that's why you don't want to give subsidy feeding unless it's absolutely necessary. And if anyone is starving, they must be taken out, just as a wolf would have done in the right wild nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120116	Yes, but, funny enough, there are also a lot of people who are taken out because they are starving. They get killed because they've starved, and you can't use them anymore. That's so dramatic and very cynical. And it is true that if they can eat hay, they do, of course, when there is nothing more to scratch off the forest floor. It's perfectly natural. And that is exactly what happened here recently, when activists had poured a proper hay over the fence, and where the animals of course cuckooed in them until it was removed again. Let's hope they got a little bit in their stomachs for the harsh winter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120156	Thank you. Then it's mr. Brian Bressendorff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120158	Thank you. I sincerely hope that future generations will have a better view of nature than that expressed here in the speech, which, after all, is more like what we see in zoos and parks, as is also mentioned. What is meant here is quite a different type of nature to what is being proposed, and I would really like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not in the nature of animals to find food, and whether we should not also be able to go back to the old belief that nature can manage in such a way that animals can find food because it lies in their nature? Could the rapporteur not tell me a little about whether it is because we have had such a bad nature for so many years that animals have simply forgotten what it is like to find food?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120259	Then it's the rough way they're gonna find out. I'm sure I'll promise you that. Because don't talk about nature when you fence the animals in. They cannot get outside that enclosure, and it has nothing to do with rewilding. That's ridiculous. This is something that is being played, as I said in my rapporteur's speech. It's so exciting, come on, it's something we play, where we're free, where we create nature, but we fence in. Well, that's two opposites.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120327	Sir. Brian Bressendorff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120328	But then let us stop playing, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. If that is the intention, can Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard please explain to me whether it is the position of DF that we should remove all grassers from the land of the state?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120341	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120342	It is the view that subsidies should be fed, that we will not accept that animals are starving, that we will not accept that animals are suffering and that there should be no derogations from the animal welfare law. Answer to that, rapporteur: why are we doing it in this matter? As soon as it is the state, we can dispense, but we cannot do so to the private farmer, which I certainly do not think we should either. There just has to be one's rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120405	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120407	That was a comment which Mr. Kasper Roug of the Social Democratic Party came along a moment ago, who just gave me the opportunity to ask Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard what wild nature really is. One has to understand from the Social Democracy that it is only wild nature when it is fenced in, but that what is out in the national parks and now I mentioned Skjoldungernes Land out in Central Zealand is not wild nature, but if you fenced in part of the national park, the Bistrup Forests, then it would be wild nature. Does Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard agree with that view, or does Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard agree with me that one can therefore have wild nature, even if they are not fenced in, perhaps rather the opposite? At least that's my point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120445	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120446	Funny enough, I totally agree with Mr. Jacob Jensen, and that is what I have been talking about all along. You talk about wild nature, but you fence in. These are the two contradictions that I cannot reconcile.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120459	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120502	I share Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's concern about animal welfare. I am not so concerned, then, because there are some very good rules in the legislation to make management plans for the individual national park, where there will also be the possibility of subsidy feeding, etc., so there will be no animals suffering. What I am going to be watching now is that I do not curse insanely provoked by the indignation that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is standing here today when Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has for many, many years allowed Danish agriculture to treat animals as they have. What about those nursing sows that are stuck in 20-40 per cent? of their lives? What about all those who call in how many now, 25,000-27,000 a day, who die? The fire speech that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard gave today for the animals that may starve in the national parks and which I do not think will be starving, because we have legislation against it, after all, is very, very few compared to the millions of animals that have suffered under the power of Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120609	Now it is always encouraging to provoke Mrs Zenia Stampe, but one does not rule out the other. It doesn't. We can have a debate on that on another day. I fully agree that there are things in conventional farming that are not liked. So we have only some obligations there and now I am moving on to a completely different level, but that is of course on the basis of the question, and I am very prepared to take that discussion, of course. But I just don't really hear anyone mention it, except when it comes to discussing national parks. And I have heard it before, also in consultation, that then we will have to turn it over to the other. Now we're discussing national parks. I would very much like to take the second discussion as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120651	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120652	We're discussing animal welfare. I just think that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard expresses a very great double standard when the Danish People's Party has kept its hands on a Danish farm that treats piglets like this, nurse sows like this, baby calves like this and have cows that have taken away their calves immediately. How can you stand with this indignation and make yourself the mother of animal welfare, when you have been watching over a Danish farm that treats animals like this for so many years? It's double standards, it's theater!
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120724	Yes, but as far as I know, there's a government with a red majority. What's going on? What is happening from Mrs. Zenia Stampe's side? Why don't you do something to the government? Get to work. You have a majority. Let's go. Well, here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe, just get started. In other words, ask the Social Democrats who have the power of government. They have a majority. Mrs. Zenia Stampe is a support party. Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe. You're there right now. And that indignation that Mrs. Zenia Stampe is showing now, she can show to the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120756	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120758	I would like to continue a little where Mrs Zenia Stampe left off, because I also sometimes think that there is a lack of proportion in the debate. Well, we have not exposed a single animal suffering or starving in any natural national park. We haven't, it's a fact. On the other hand, it is referred to as if it is a great deal of cruelty to animals. I just think that it is really enough to say if, for example, we say that. Takes the chickens that 80%. Of all chickens, the sternum breaks when laying eggs. This means that the eggs we have on our breakfast table have had the cost of 80%. of the hens that laid them have broken their sternum and felt great pain. Is it not really enough to say that if the enormous resistance to the starving animals, which then do not exist in the national parks, had been directed at agriculture, there would be a greater chance that many, many more animals could have been spared pain?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120854	Yes, and I have asked the Minister a lot of questions about the chickens and the sternum, so I am also interested. It is not because I do not want to discuss it, but it is not the debate we have now. We'll take it another time. But I have to say that exactly the matter raised by the rapporteur has been touched upon, so we can join forces there. I would be very interested in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120916	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120917	Thank you. I really, really, really want to be a part of that. I sometimes wonder how well the animal welfare law that is used as an example and according to which animals are to be visited every day actually works in, for example. agriculture. In other words, it is a guarantee that animals will thrive in, for example. National Parks of Nature? For it is certainly not a guarantee that they will thrive in agriculture.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203120945	It's not safe. I do not know if there will be any more questions, but let me just say that I am actually so interested that I personally only eat meat from organic farming and from free-range animals etc., and so I would like to see it widely applied. There we have other problems, we might as well admit that. There we have endorsed some EU regulations, so it would be very, very difficult and very, very expensive for Danish farmers to go into those schemes. That is the reality, and we also have to deal with it. But I would very much like to have a discussion in a query debate on it another day. But talk to the government first to get the majority in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203121023	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. I would like to thank Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and, after the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr Pia Kjærsgaard. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203121051	Thank you. I was actually happy when this question was called, and we talked in committee about whether we should have called it wider so that we could have a proper discussion of this again, and I am always happy to discuss nature and biodiversity in Denmark, in Europe and in the world. Because we just have to recognise that nature is in crisis and that we are facing a galloping biodiversity crisis that should drown everything else out. If we do not save biodiversity, if we do not stop the decline of species, if we do not stop the decline of wild pollinators, then we have a serious problem. That's why I was very, very proud and happy when we managed to deal with this with the 2021 Finance Act. Because there should have been action a long time ago. There should have been action when we can see that 75%. of all ecosystems on land have been degraded by human activity. There should have been action when we can actually see that all the protected forest types in Denmark are in a highly unfavourable conservation status, but no action has been taken. Not nearly enough has been done. However, we have chosen to do so with the biodiversity and nature package and with the budget law for 2021. Part of this is about converting the state forest into untouched forest, which is planning a review of the law to see how we actually create it, and whether there is something that stands in the way of creating a proper nature conservation and restoration, which is rock reefs, and then there are natural national parks that we are discussing today. And again, I just have to say, because some of the parties that have convened are saying that it is fine if you want to do something, but also asked whether it should be, or whether it should be so much or so many, that if we are to act on the natural and biodiversity crisis, it is about one thing: space. And with this, we're going to put 1 per cent. of our area of land for nature to be managed freely, for us to have some ecosystems, an ecosystem-based approach, and that is then 15 natural national parks. However, for me, this is only a start in relation to the nature protection and restoration that must take place in our country, and fortunately, the European Union is working on directives in these areas, so I hope that we will be forced to do much more. Then there have been some questions, and I would really like to answer them, and now I can see that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is not here. But Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard kept asking again and again about this animal welfare issue, and I think it is funny that we keep being asked about it, because we also discussed it when we had the law and when we adopted it, and then I replied to it, and I also discussed it in committee and so on. But I will do it again if Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard listens with somewhere. There is a difference between how to supervise when you have 1,000 hectares or a tiny fold of a few square meters, and that is all that is being done here. The responsibility for animal welfare in these national parks is exactly the same. But it is clear that when you have a tiny fold the size of nothing, then you can go out and see how that horse is doing, but that when you have 1,000 ha or more, where there is a bunch of horses running around, then you cannot conduct that kind of supervision. Then you have to find other ways to have that supervision so that you ensure that animal welfare is of course in order. For the responsibility lies, of course, with those who own the land, and in this case it is the state. Finally, I should also like to comment on some of the things that have also been talked about, namely the terrible thing about fences. Some people are talking about fenced animals inside, and others are talking about fenced people out, and I just have to say that we have plenty of fences in Denmark, and in some of these areas we are going to sort out some fences, because instead of tiny folds we make large, coherent areas. But there are plenty of fences. You can't go for a walk in the Danish landscape without fences all over it, small folds of animals or small pieces of grass that just stand and grow up so some other animals can come and eat it. Here we make large, coherent areas, and the Danes are used to fences because they are everywhere, and above all these fences are about not disturbing traffic and farmers' fields. So I think you have to put it down. But I think it should be, and then I think there might be a few questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203121553	It is there, yes, and the first questioner is Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203121555	Thank you to the SF rapporteur for an ever-enthusiastic speech when it comes to nature, and that is very fine. My question is this: the rapporteur says that what is absolutely most important is space. I thought it wasn't just about space, but also about grasses and what you put into these national parks. However, it may be an opening-up to what I have tried to say: that there could be some places where natural parks, and therefore the areas where grassers are to be used, could be restricted, in return for the inclusion of other and larger areas. I have now mentioned the national parks, which have some land which is managed in different ways. Is it not the overall increase in biodiversity that is crucial for the SF, and not that there is a special effort in a limited area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203121644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203121645	Well, then I've been unclear. When I talk about space, that it takes space, it is in relation to the overall natural crisis, and the natural parks, i.e. the one percent of our area, are only part of the answer. That's 1%. of our area, and again I just have to say that it is very, very little. Then we have, in addition to the untouched forests we remodel the forests of the state, and we have also been given money to make untouched forests in private forests, so there are a number of different answers. But the natural parks still have to be only 15 places in Denmark, and that is less than 1%. of our area. That's very little.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203121719	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203121719-2	But it's just to see what SF's objective is here: whether it's to get these natural parks through, or whether it's that we can have a global increase in biodiversity in Denmark. I just wonder if, when there are such great concerns and there are such great challenges in some places, we should say: how do we get the most biodiversity and the most nature? And then I am a little back to saying that I also think that nature outside a national natural park is nature and also helps to promote biodiversity. It may not be to the same extent, but overall it is what we are aiming for as an overall result that it benefits our nature as best we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203121759	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203121800	But that's why I'm so glad we finally got started on this work of having an ecosystem-based approach to how we do nature care. It is only now that we have started, and I get indications right up to the level that Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard had before in her speech, when I look at how little has been done for nature and biodiversity in this society. Now we are getting started on an ecosystem-based approach, because that is what is absolutely necessary. Part of the answer is the natural parks of 1%. of our area, only 15 places in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203121833	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203121835	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist used the expression here that we have a galloping biodiversity crisis. In the past, he has said that we have a biodiversity crisis and, in the past, he has also said that scientists have been pushing for action on biodiversity. That is why it is important that we find out whether what we are doing is going to help. Sir. Kasper Roug, the Social Democrat rapporteur, was unable to answer that question, and that is why I would like to make it a little easier for Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist. Because I just want to ask Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, about Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist in the negotiations that have taken place has been presented with material that proves, concludes or creates the evidence for this, so that there is nothing wrong with what I am saying here: there will be more biodiversity by enclosing nature and exposing livestock to rewilding in national parks. I am no longer going to ask about the reports, because I could understand that it was not so easy to answer, but I would just like to ask if Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has been submitted some material that provides evidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203121944	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203121945	Yes, I can promise the former Minister for the Environment that I have, of course, talked to many biodiversity researchers about this; researchers who are just pointing out that what we need is an ecosystem-based approach. That is where you think in systems and not in individual species. When we make these natural parks at 1%. of our area only 15 places in Denmark where we want grassers to be part of the dynamics and ecosystems that are, it is because we no longer just have to have forest in the sense we know today, which is a very limited small size, and where there is then a field. No, we want a much more mixed nature because we have the ecosystem-based approach. It's a shame you didn't get started 20 years ago with that approach to nature care in Denmark. Our country would have liked that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122029	Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122030	It is sad, and I would also like to say to those who are following this debate that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist cannot even answer such a simple question as: Has he been presented with that material? Then he gives me an answer to something quite different and says that he has talked to many people and that he has a feeling and a sense of something etc., but that is not at all what I am asking. I ask whether this material has been submitted to us and I would like to point out that we can read with great interest about the effects of rewilding on biodiversity, such as biodiversity. A Rasmus Ejrnæs is in it. That's 127 pages. That's good reading. But nowhere does it say that there is evidence that if you do what you have just decided, it will result in more biodiversity. So, where's Mr. Keating? Rasmus Nordqvist saw his knowledge from?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122110-2	I'll tell Mr. Knox. Hans Christian Schmidt, that what we are doing now is that we act. We are acting on something that should have been dealt with 20 years ago, and then we say: now we have to get started. At 1%. of our area we then arrange to create natural national parks • 1%. of our area. I simply do not understand the opposition to us getting started on this. Will it create a better dynamic and a better ecosystem approach, that there are large grassers who make light-open areas and who overturn trees, etc.? Yeah, that's what the scientists say.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122142	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122144	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur's speech. I was right next door, but there's also a chance to see and hear, so I did. I just want to deal with what many rapporteurs say: there are no problems at all, there are no animals that have died of starvation and that they are actually doing very well, all of them. I have to say that in five years the Mols Laboratory has been forced to remove 78 cattle and 15 horses because of the principle of zero winter feed. I think that's a lot, a lot. And they have starved because they do not adapt the animal population to the food base. Twice during the five-year lifetime of the project, employees have hit a stock size to fit twice. The rest of the hallways have been killed or handed over elsewhere. I think it's a very high number. So it's not true that they're feeling super well; they're being removed because they're feeling really bad • 78 cattle and 15 horses • because there hasn't been winter food.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122246	Well, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard speaks against better knowledge, because the Mols Laboratory is not a national park; it is a small area that is driven on the basis of rewildering principles. However, if Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard were to follow the process that has actually been and the areas we are talking about, it is quite different sizes, plus that in the management plans that are being discussed and worked on, there is a great deal of attention to the fact that we have to start out very, very cautiously when it comes to the animal pressure that has to be, precisely in order not to experience animals that are starving. But I simply do not understand why Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard cannot see the difference between whether you have the very small area or whether you have the very, very large area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122328	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122328-2	Well, that means that Molslab can just do what they want, because it's something else. Well, that was a sick point of view, simply! Come on. After all, the Mols Laboratory has really been an initiator of this debate, although, indeed, it is not a national park. But it has really been an initiator, and I think it was actually the laboratory that started the whole debate, so we have to deal with that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122356	Well, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, no, you can't do everything. Neither can we when we get started with the first national parks. But again, Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard has to relate to the fact that when you talk about area size, it has a meaning. In fact, I think Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard should deal with that soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122416	Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122419	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist came to say that he does not understand the opposition that is against this, understood in this Chamber, but certainly also the resistance that is in the country. Hasn't the SF noticed that it's actually a lot of ordinary citizens who are really worried about this? Does this mean that SF doesn't understand that they get into deputies, they write to us, lots of e-mails, and there's a lot of activity on social media... you don't understand that there can be concern about this out here in the population? Because it's a whole new concept... I've been talking about something completely new in the past... and then I can understand that it's because we're acting, we're saving something like the earth's about to end. We then recognise the problem of biodiversity, but did it matter that we took a little more time to try to meet the people, the many people around the country who are worried about this, instead of just rolling out and saying: Take it or leave it, this is it or nothing. Anything the others bring, they can pack up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122520	But nothing's gonna be rolled. I fully recognise that there are some who are opposed and that there are some who are in favour. I have also been sitting in a myriad of deputies and actually engaged in dialogue with people, because I am not afraid to take that dialogue about the concerns that might exist. However, we need to act on the biodiversity crisis we are facing, and that is what we are doing with this. And a process has just been carried out which states that once you have found out that an area is to be classified as a national park, you will have local groups look at how to do it in a way that works. This is what we can see at Fussingø, where you have actually found a way to still have room for dog forest etc. etc. So that work is still gone. So I do not understand this, and I do not understand the criticism made by the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Jacob Jensen, earlier on about the fact that you had to pause it, but it was not okay that we had actually extended the process a little, because we just had a dialogue, because you have to do it with some other words or something. I do not quite understand what it is that you want, with that question, I must honestly admit.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122616	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122618	Then I might be able to contribute to the investigation. In other words, what we just want is for us to press the pause button precisely to create the dialogue and secure the dialogue that is so important for people around the country before we start a whole lot, which is something completely new. I would like to ask SF: What about our forestry in general? Does SF recognise that forests have an effect also in relation to the climate objective, which is something SF cares a lot about? Is it subordinate to the biodiversity objective, or could we find some solutions where we combine the two things? That is what the Left is very interested in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122656	But then the Left should be happy that it is the SF that has been involved in making finance laws in the last few years since we got a change of government, because we are, of course, investing in both forest and forest management with climate forest and climate forest fund etc., and we are looking for something to be done about the biodiversity crisis. So instead of going and waiting for others to do something, we've acted on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122720	Then it's mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122723	Thank you. I think we all agree on the purpose. I don't think we can disagree on that. It's the solution that's just not good enough. There's been such a top-down process. You've been sitting in the gloom and darkness of the night on Slotsholmen, and then you've agreed that it should look like this. You haven't been out to take on board those who have to live and live next to this. This was done with the National Parks. There you were very good at involving the municipal council and the users of the forest. Here we have been sitting in the dark and dark of the night in a debate on finance and have agreed that it should be like this. Is it a good process to bring the people along?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122807	I simply disagree deeply. Nothing has happened in the dark and gloom of the night. There has been a broad discussion about this and there should be action on a biodiversity crisis that a number of politicians have unfortunately not acted on for many years. That's what you chose to do with this. Then there is a process of first finding out where to go on state land and doing so, and then there is a long and inclusive process of how it should be done. You just have to point out again that the national parks to which the questioner refers are not about nature conservation. There's all sorts of things going on in them. There are professions, agriculture, roads, etc., so it is not nature-care.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122837	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122841	Our national parks are not about nature care, says the rapporteur. It's not a either-or, it's a boat-and. Because it should of course be such that we can all see an advantage in strengthening biodiversity, and this can be done abundantly, even in existing natural parks. I come from a place where this has been pulled over the head, and I do not think there is a majority for it in the local council. I can see that large organisations that have always taken pride in fighting for biodiversity, fighting for the environment, feel completely run over by a small majority in Christiansborg in my view.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122922	Yes, there may well be nature care in a national park, and that is why there can easily be a national park as part of a national park, but we will not be able to act on this until we choose to do something active for nature and have the approach we need to have if we are to restore nature in Denmark, i.e. an ecosystem-based approach. That is what we are doing now, and so there is involvement. Now the Left will pause it. After all, we have just chosen to extend the process in order to have a proper dialogue with some of the groups we are talking about. Then there is the entire administration behind, which will also take place in cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203122959	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, so thank you to Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Here you go, Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203123021	Thank you. Nature is in a deep and escalating crisis. Fortunately, I think most parties have said so today. I think there was a line from Mette Thiesen that socialism was a greater threat to the world. Fortunately, I think she's alone with that. After all, I believe that our other bourgeois, liberal, conservative comrades in this Chamber have a sense of reality enough to see that the biodiversity crisis is, after all, more serious than a social democratic government. But what is characteristic, perhaps by this process, but also by the biodiversity crisis more generally, is that it has been such a kind of invisible little brother to the climate crisis. We have been talking about climate for some 30 years now, but it is only the last few years that it has been widely recognised, including here in the Danish Parliament, that it is a very serious crisis that requires action. And then we have only afterwards begun to understand the seriousness of the biodiversity crisis, which biologists have also been talking about for many, many years. That's why things are moving a little fast now. I understand that it may seem violent in some places around Denmark, but it is of course because the biodiversity crisis is at least as serious as the climate crisis, but we have only begun to recognise it and act on it in the last few years. I am, in fact, a little disappointed with the Left in this debate. Because when the Left had the Environment Minister's post, Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, who is now President of the Left, is very active in this debate on large, coherent natural areas, natural parks. And I remember sometimes thinking and I also think that I came to say it out loud to reach yes, but it's also great for the bourgeois who are good friends with agriculture. This is an easy way to benefit the environment. You can just manage the natural land of the state in a different way instead of ending the very, very large agriculture and the very intensive farming that we have in Denmark. For I suffered for many years from that failure. I must admit that the greatest threat to nature was agriculture. There is no doubt, then, that it matters what we people do and our production, among other things. through agriculture, but also our cities and infrastructure, etc. That's what's taken place from nature. That is what makes nature in crisis. But where it gets really serious and the warning lights start to blink, is when nature doesn't even feel good in the areas that should be nature. I thought for many years that the solution is that we take some land out, and then we make nature. It is also the long-term solution to give nature more space, but the short-term and urgent and necessary solution is that where nature has the first right today, it must also be managed on the basis of nature, instead of continuing to manage on the basis of human beings, even though we call the areas of nature. Because that's what these national parks are all about. This is about the areas where we have already decided that this is nature. There we have to manage it in a way that is best for nature. Then there has been a lot of focus on the grass today. There are three elements in nature parks. There's natural hydrology. I don't hear a debate about that. Then there is untouched forest, and there is a little debate on that. And then, finally, there are the great grassers, the great herbivores, what we will call them. I am quite sure that in a few moments I will have questions about evidence and so on, so I have taken some evidence into the pile. I can wait until the question comes. But it is actually quite simple logic that the large animals that exist in the world once lived in nature. They no longer do that, yes, they may do so in Africa and in some of the large countries to the south, but here we do not have very many large animals living in nature anymore. The big animals we have live in stables, and then we eat them. But once they lived in nature and entered into a symbiosis with a lot of other animals and a lot of other plants, and this is the symbiosis that nature has taken hundreds of thousands of millions of years to develop, which we have destroyed in a few years because we have laid out most of our country for production. But where we actually have nature, we still keep important elements of the original nature away, namely the large grassers. It's the ones we want back. That is why, of course, we are still supporting the national parks, and I look forward to the debate. I am sure there will be some questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203123537	There are at least a few brief comments. Here you go, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203123539	Thank you. Mrs. Zenia Stampe said that once these great animals lived in nature. That's right, if we get far enough back in time, there were actually mammoths here. That is why I would like to ask: how far do the Radicals think we have to go back? What's this year? Is it back to 1850 and what was then? Or is it 1,500? Or are we going back even further? That's nice enough to know, because it's kind of fluffy to say that they used to be in nature. What exactly is the objective of this if you go for rewilding and original nature? According to the natural view, should there be room for human beings at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203123618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203123619	It is a very strange approach to the area to ask for a year. I think it reveals a little lack of insight into biology. What is crucial is that we create conditions in which the species that are at risk today are both plants and animals are returning. The prerequisite for their return is, among other things, that we have large grassers who can ensure that the stand does not jump into a thicket, which can make sure that some trees are overturned, so that there is more death, etc. etc. That is the function; it is not a date; it is not a cultural talk. After all, this is really about restoring the nature that has been lost, because we have been able to remove parts of the value chain that nature has been millions of years to build. There we have taken out elements and then it all breaks down. These are the elements we need to get back into that value chain because they matter, and they matter not only to the large animals that we have largely removed from nature, but all the way down to the animal and plant hierarchy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203123727	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203123728	I do not pretend to be an expert in nature, but I have read Charles Darwin's books with interest. They're very exciting. But what's interesting is that we just say that we have to go back to something that was once, and then it's kind of unclear what the goal really is. But you're willing to put a whole lot of things at risk. Does the Radical Left recognise that in recent decades we have been targeting what is called near-to-earth forestry? I've been up to see it in Rold Skov. There you leave trees. Not only do you take everything with you, but you leave wood for the good of the beetles, and you respect that there must also be room for biodiversity. It has been introduced, and it has its effect. You can see that it has a positive effect in many places. Are we gonna have more of that, or are we just gonna sweep it aside? Then you can combine biodiversity with the fact that we also have a forestry operation where we produce some wood that we would like to have for our buildings.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203123820	So there's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203123821	What you do with this type of production is you put elements of nature into it. Our point is that where it is nature, it must be nature. There should not also be forestry. But it is clear that if you have a production forest, it will be more natural if you introduce those elements. But that is not enough if we really want areas where nature has the first right. Then I'd like to read something, because I know that Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen also asked that question to others. That's why I found an article that I really think gives a very good picture of it, no, there's no time for that. It was about the fact that history shows that during the periods when the large mammals have disappeared, nature has also suffered further down the hierarchy, so to speak, and that is the situation we are in now and which we are going to remedy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203123908	Unfortunately, Mrs Zenia Stampe, there may be another opportunity to say that. At least now it's sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203123913	Thank you. We're listening. For the citizens too. Also to the schools. Local communities too. At least it's an old radical slogan. Perhaps the rapporteur can answer me as to whether we have gone completely away from it now or whether we are just on the way. For many places in Denmark, the idea of these natural parks is decided centrally at Christiansborg without local involvement. This has led to a great deal of debate. Among other things, they do. done in Lejre Municipality with Bidstrup Skovene, where a number of associations, schools and scouts have joined forces and have said: We don't want this. There the local town council has listened to including the council members of Mrs Zenia Stampe's own party and said: no thank you; we don't want this. And that's why my question to Mrs. Zenia Stampe is just: "We're listening. Also for the citizens of Lejre? • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124022	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124023	At that time we also had a motto called: "We take responsibility. That's what this is about. And I just want to say that the most irresponsible party in this debate today is the Left, because the Left does not know what to stand on. Is it the animal welfare that you're worried about? Are they the citizens? Are those the fences? And hoof, there is also a biodiversity crisis; it is actually a little important to resolve it. What would the Left actually do besides just taking all the vacant positions and throwing them all together in a big pot and then there's nada? And we're listening. For who participated in the natural migration in the Bidstrup Forests? I did. Who stood up and said: Hello friends, I think it is... now I should not say a goddamn good idea, but a really good idea. I would like to listen, because I would like to have an administrative rule; have a solution that you can live with, and listen to your concerns and see what we can do. And I think we will get very far when we get down to the individual management plans. That is where we have to listen; that is where we have to make the concrete solutions and show the necessary consideration. But it is no help just to say: now we press the pause button, and then there is no virtue. It's not taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124129	Thank you. And since you know what words you can't say, they don't get any more allowed by saying you can't say them. But here you go, sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124133	Thank you. I think I hit a sore spot there. At any rate, I was blown behind me by the very aggressive behaviour of the rapporteur, who did not answer my question at any time, but threw himself into a long, gluttonous attack on the Left, because we allow ourselves to have more than one concern; because we allow ourselves to make more than one criticism. There are several criticisms, which is why it is quite natural that more than one thing should be targeted. And I know Mrs. Zenia Stampe and know that she has the intellectual capacity to do so. But can Mrs Zenia Stampe not answer me: why is the radical councillor of Lejre Municipality wrong when he says no to a national park in Lejre?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124223	I would now like to say that we do not know whether the national park will be in Lejre. It's the process we're doing now. But they're wrong because it's important for biodiversity that we get these nature parks where these big grassers are part of the solution. For they are necessary to recreate the nature that is currently in danger of extinction. And I think I actually answered the question. Because I replied that I came and talked to the citizens. I actually said when I showed up: all of you who disagree most about this can come to me, because I'd like to hear what it is you think is problematic. And I got a lot of that out of it. And that's some input I'm working on. But what I didn't hear a single word about in Mr. Morten Dahlin's speech was nature and the biodiversity crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124309	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124310	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I agree with the purpose; the solution is just not very good. There are many concerns here. Now that we are facing challenges with our climate, I think the rapporteur could call it a climate crisis, and I do not disagree with that, we also know that we need materials other than plastics, glass and cement. We need wood. A consequence and concern from the sawmills is also that there will be less wood available. Is this also the solution, that we may not need wood in the future, but that we need plastic, cement and glass in our construction industry instead of wood? How does this harmonize with biodiversity and climate? Because they're part of each other. What should be said to the foresters when they now make everything for biodiversity forest and cannot have a forest catch and thus cannot use wood from Denmark in the Danish construction industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124414	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124415	My party has now come up with a very ambitious proposal to plant new forests, because that is part of the climate solution. It is new forest that can absorb CO2 But what we are doing here is that we take the state production forests, which have the greatest natural value because there is both nature and forest production, and say that they are allowed to become pure nature. At the same time, however, we are planting new forests that solve the climate crisis and help create sustainable building materials. But frankly, I am extremely disappointed with the Left, which, a few years ago, had an environmental minister who helped to launch this idea of natural parks. Now you are both against the untouched forest, against the great grassers and against the fences. What will the Left actually do to resolve the biodiversity crisis? I am quite sure that we do not want to do everything possible in relation to agriculture and to limit pesticides and nitrogen, etc. etc. Are we all the way back to the time when no frogs in Denmark had gotten worse?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124521	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124522	Oh, I started my question by saying that I agreed with the purpose, precisely to avoid the whole educational speech. The rapporteur says that we must have new forests planted. How long does it take to make new woods? We're in a climate crisis now. The radical rapporteur does not care, because if we stop taking wood out of our forests, we need more plastic, more concrete, more cement and more glass. This requires that we use incredibly much more energy, which can help increase our CO2 otherwise it requires that we import it; that is what the Minister of the Environment wants, that is, that we just have to import it from others. We export a problem to other countries because we ourselves have our whole hand in the navel and do not care about the biodiversity of others. We can just cut down other countries' forests. That is the answer of the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124613	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124614	After all, it is not because it is going to be a huge climate strain that we are laying out something untouched forest. There is such a theoretical discussion at the moment about how much CO2 I do not think a conclusion has yet been reached, but we are talking marginals anyway. If it was about climate, I just have to ask why the Left did not demand that we have fewer livestock in Denmark. It's one of the great climate sinners. There was not a great deal of intense concern about the climate; on the other hand, there was a great deal of concern for the not so many farmers now who make a living from having really, very many animals, which unfortunately place an enormous burden on the climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124657	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124658	I am, of course, very sorry because I think this discussion and this way of implementing national parks have led to a violent conflict with the people. So I do not believe that it promotes nature love and biodiversity and everything else, that we first act to make enemies. Well, I can say without sounding instructive that you can do it in a different way. I myself was the first minister to make national parks, and it was done by the people who lived there having to accept it and having to go along with it. It is a real model to do it after, but of course it takes a little longer, and it is not certain that you will arrive at the result you intended. But well! I think it is even worse if it is that you ask someone for something and then are not sure if it is going to happen and if it works. So I have to ask the Radicals something that I have asked other rapporteurs and that they have not been able to answer either, but it may be that Mrs Zenia Stampe can. Has Mrs Zenia Stampe been presented with any material that shows that there is evidence that biodiversity is emerging from the inclusion and exposure of these animals? For those places where I read about it, researchers dare not write that there is evidence, they write that they expect them to believe that they think they might, but not that there is evidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124811	No, it is something new now that we are about to rewild because we have been doing the opposite for so many years, namely that we have embraced nature, of course there are examples in other parts of the world, but nature is different. But it is now that I would like to read from this article, which was written by Rasmus Ejrnæs: Our own research results indicate that the present interglacial period even before the Neolithic period was characterized by a highly impoverished fauna, both in terms of the number of different species of large herbivores and the density of animals in the landscape. The reason was man's pursuit of the large animals, and the result can be seen in deposits showing lower density of beetles linked to open landscapes and animal manure than in the previous interglacial period. So it has a consequence when you take the big grassers out of the equation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124857	Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124858	I just didn't ask if it had consequences. I asked if there was any evidence. And I just want to say, Mrs. Zenia Stampe, that it doesn't matter that Mrs. Zenia Stampe can't answer that either. That does not surprise me at all, because I cannot find that material, and it would be thought-provoking if someone had it, and then not long ago had told me that it exists. Because it hasn't been investigated yet. And no, it's been 10-15 years since you started this, so you know that well. You just haven't been able to prove that just fenced in and put those animals out will lead to that result, and that's fair enough, but then you just have to say it, instead of pretending that this is the solution to everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203124935	So now that we're in a situation where there's a biodiversity crisis... there's 1,800 species under threat and half of them are related to the forest... we shouldn't even try to do the experiment with something that most scientists say they think will have a positive impact on biodiversity. We shouldn't do that because we don't have evidence yet. Then it will be impossible to return to a good nature, because it is new that we now have to get nature back into a landscape where we have virtually sent it into exile. And that's the Left's answer... nothing. Nothing's gonna happen. But it's great; now we know you again, we know you. We know that the Left is not a green party. Left is a black party or a populist party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125017	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125018	I have to promise that the seriousness of this matter will be increased: the left is not in favour of grassers, we are not in favour of fences, we are in favour of more pesticides and more manure in the stream, and what else was it that came out? I just think it is so irresponsible to discuss things like that and to shoot something like that in our shoes. After all, it is almost impossible to have a discussion with Mrs Zenia Stampe when it is running at that level. I understand that taking responsibility, and that must then be my question, is that from Christiansborg, with Mrs Zenia Stampe in the lead, a solution is being drawn down over the head of Lejre City Council, where the Radical representatives are opposed to it. They can't take responsibility for what they say no. Mrs Zenia Stampe says this is the way it should be; it is taking responsibility. Frankly, I think it is a rather strange approach to it in a people's government where we can normally talk and where we can normally discuss on a factual and serious basis. So my question is: why is it responsible to make a decision that the local elected representatives, including radicals, think is a bad idea? However, could one not go into dialogue with them and say: there are some places you want it, and that is what we prioritise, while elsewhere you think it is a bad idea because it has some local consequences, and that is where we do not go in and make this Christiansborg solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125129	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125130	But we are still, of course, but we have to take responsibility for ourselves, take leadership on us to identify some areas where we will then have that dialogue. Because if we give all municipalities the right to veto these natural parks, we won't get very many. Then we don't get enough to save nature, which is our upbringing. That's what I'm elected to do. I know that is not what the Members of the Left have been elected for. There are quite different considerations, some quite different interests which are obviously important to the electorate of the Left or, at least, the representatives of the Left. But what I am elected to do is do something about the biodiversity crisis. And I take that leadership on me, but I take it also on me in a way that I want dialogue with those who are worried and who are opposed. But it should not be a stick in the wheel, because I take responsibility for resolving the biodiversity crisis. That's what the Left doesn't do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125232	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125234	When Mrs Zenia Stampe says that she expects the municipalities, if you left it up to them, and you could say that there was a right of veto, will say no, has Mrs Zenia Stampe considered why? Why would you say no? Could it be about the way you get out and roll it through with a christian castle solution with fences and with grassers and with, I don't know what, instead of saying: there are perhaps some other solutions that you could go into dialogue with the municipalities about and with local elected representatives, including Radicals? Has Mrs Zenia Stampe not considered why at all when she says herself that she expects the municipalities to say no? Why, then, do you have to come from Christiansborg and roll through something that is contrary to what you want locally, where you have to live with the consequences of these fences and these grasses, and where there are uncertainties and concerns?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125316	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125317	I've been thinking about that. But I have also come to the conclusion that the grasses and thus the fences are necessary. After all, the fences are a consequence of the grasses being there and not having to go out and eat from the farmer's field or get in the way of traffic. Therefore, the fences are a consequence that most of us would probably have liked to have been left out. But they are necessary if we want to put out large grassers, and I have accepted that. It is a premise for helping nature in the crisis in which nature is in. And that is where the waters seem to separate between the Left and the Radical Left. We are willing to do so, because we believe this is necessary in order to save nature, even if it creates dissatisfaction in some areas. I am quite sure that the mood will change out there when the time passes and we will have a good dialogue on how it will work with the fences I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125404	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125405	Thank you. I would just like to ask the question which I have tried in vain to get an answer to from other rapporteurs. Just quite simply, why are we dispensing from the Animal Protection Act in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125419	You do, because it would be crazy if you had to go out every single day and track every single big animal to see if it's okay. It's not very natural either, so if you had to go out and find every horse and see if it's okay. But that being said, rules have been laid down in the law on how we manage it. What is in the law is that the individual management plan must describe what to do if there is not enough feed for a period of time, what to do if the stock is too high in relation to feed etc. etc., and the responsibility is the same. The animals must not starve. It is forbidden and the authorities have a duty to act on it. But no, we cannot put out grassers if, at the same time, we demand that every single day we find every grass out in these big areas and see if it's okay. And I would just like to say that in agriculture all animals are not well every day, even if we look at them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125522	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125523	Well, in society, you have to comply with the animal protection law in general, but in these parks you don't have to. That's the answer. In other words, when it is the state, the state decides and the state decides that private farmers must comply with the law. That's the answer. I've got the answer. It's just not good enough, but that's the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125547	No, that's not the answer. Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard is trying to read in such a conspiracy that if it is the state, then we take power over us, and when it is the farmer, we want to have power over him. That is also a practical question. How can we even put grassers into such large areas if we are to mock and supervise every single animal every day? Then it can't be done, and then it gets in the way of us getting these grassers out to make the difference to nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125618	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203125629	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for calling this debate because this is a very good opportunity to have a debate on one of the world's greatest challenges, namely the biodiversity crisis. This is a crisis that really means that up to a quarter of the world's species are threatened with extinction as a result of the exploitation of natural resources, agriculture, deforestation, pollution and the impact of climate change on natural ecosystems. Although we in Denmark regard ourselves as a green pioneering country, unfortunately there is no pioneering country over Denmark when it comes to nature. We are experiencing the very same decline of species in Denmark. In fact, Denmark is among the European bottom-scrapers when it comes to looking after nature and the species that live in it. Here are a few examples of how bad things are in Denmark: Denmark is the country in the EU that has the least protected nature, Denmark is again at the bottom when you look at the state of natural habitat types and species and their decline, and in Denmark we now have less than 1⁄2%. really protected wild nature in Denmark • 1⁄2%. On the other hand, we have reserved more than 60%. of our land for agriculture, and most of the Danish forests aim to produce timber. In other words, we have almost every square mile of land in this country subordinate to our human needs. Although I am very pleased that we are now being given the opportunity to discuss this particular challenge here in Parliament, I nevertheless think that the question has been called on from a sad background. For the Left and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard have not called this question to demand the government's response to solutions in relation to the natural crisis. However, the Left has called for this request on the basis of an unsightly campaign against wild nature without at any time presenting any qualified suggestions as to how Denmark will then contribute to reducing the loss of biodiversity. On the contrary, during the debate on the nature and biodiversity package, the Left has sprung out as a new almost naturalist party, which basically challenges the need to create more wild nature in Denmark and basically does not believe that we have serious challenges with biodiversity in Denmark. All the solid research that university environments have done, which recommends untouched forest and grazing with large animals as important means of creating habitats for animals and plants, thrown under the bus and rejected. Now I understand that the Left believes that the best solution to do something for biodiversity in Denmark is to make more timber production, and it is quite essential to make more timber production and travel more forest, including production forest, but not at the expense of nature. I am quite stunned that this really is the level of the Left's current natural policy, and it actually brings scary flashbacks to when the Left's natural policy was that a cornfield was nature. As I mentioned earlier, we have less than 1⁄2%. Wild nature today. With the new measures such as national parks and untouched forests, on the lands of the state, we come up to a few percent wild nature, where we people say that here nature must be allowed to develop on its own terms and no longer be subject to human needs, and that is what the Left, with the words of their transport rapporteur, calls a fundamentalist, far-reaching and uncompromising view of nature. These are statements coming from the same party, whose current president as Minister for the Environment back in 2019 stood for the first National Park in Denmark in Fussingø and then thought, and I quote: "There must be some big grassers, and then nature must be untouched otherwise. We have a goal to have more nature, greater nature and wilder nature. It is a pity that the Left is no longer behind the visions so well formulated by the Left President at the time. The Left President promised otherwise that the Left would now be the greenest party in the blue block, but we just have to note that the Left is well in the process of undermining that promise. On the other hand, I am pleased that both the Conservative and Liberal Alliance are behind the vision of tackling the biodiversity crisis and ensuring more space for wild nature, and thank you for that. Compared to the whole debate on national parks and untouched forests, Enhedslisten stands a hundred percent target of that agreement. I fully recognise that there may be local concerns, and indeed I also see that there is a constructive dialogue around the country, where local concerns are also taken into account, and that, of course, must be the case. But we need to have this debate and dialogue on the basis of facts and science, and if you think, as I understand some of my colleagues here in the Assembly, that we should completely drop or at least pause the new national parks and the plans for untouched forests, then you have to answer how you think you can create habitats for the species that are in decline in Denmark. Because if we recognise that nature is in crisis, we also need to make a qualified choice as to how to solve it, and here are new, large natural parks and untouched forest research's best indications of how we can create habitats for those species that are currently in a serious decline.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130143	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, first of all I should like to make a brief comment. Hans Christian Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130148	Thank you. I understood from the rapporteur that a great deal is owed, and I think that if you bother a lot of people and change their everyday lives and make them difficult, you also owe it to you to check whether what you are basically doing also leads to what you say externally it should lead to, and here it is, of course, increased biodiversity. I also understood Mr. Peder Hvelplund, that it was very important that it was based on facts and scientific information, and that is why I just want to hear about Mr. Peder Hvelplund can answer what I have now asked Mr Hvelplund. Kasper Roug about from the Social Democratic Party who couldn't answer, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist about which could not answer, and Mrs Zenia Stampe about which could not answer: What material, what reports, what scientific basis proves, concludes what will now be used of words • that there will be more biodiversity by enclosing nature and exposing livestock to rewilding in national parks? Well, what kind of scientific basis is that, sir? Peder Hvelplund is standing on, and where do I find those reports, because I'm looking and looking, and I can't find them?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130256	I think that the rapporteur can find them if it is the case that the release of large grasses and the fence of large areas of wild nature are some of the things that can help to increase biodiversity. What the rapporteur has asked is whether there can be definite evidence of this, and I have not seen it anywhere. On the other hand, I have seen how biodiversity researchers both from the University of Copenhagen and from Aarhus University have pointed out that precisely natural parks and the prerequisites for natural parks are part of the response to the biodiversity crisis. It's not such a one size fits all, so we have evidence, if we do this, that we solve the biodiversity crisis. But if we do this here, while banning pesticides and ensuring that we grow forests in a more climate-responsible way, then it is all something that helps solve the biodiversity crisis. But that national parks and the release of large grassers are not part of the answer, I certainly find it difficult to find research evidence to be the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130357	Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130359	Well, I'm glad it got out, I'm going to tell Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund, that we actually have no idea what the result is. That is just something that could have been said in the first place, and it would probably have made people a little more calm, instead of saying all along that it would precisely lead to better biodiversity and so on, without basically having scientific evidence for it. I think that's what the Folketing often does. Don't do such things; be honest and say things the way they are. The people can easily take it. It would have been much better if we had said that we are doing an experiment, because we don't really know if it works, but it might have made some people say, "Wouldn't you think a little before you bother our whole life when you don't even know if this leads to the result you say, but that it's an experiment?" There, I would just like to call again for a little effort to be made to accommodate the people. That would therefore be a good idea and we will not have anyone against these projects either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130452	In other words, if the Left had the same approach to labour supply reforms and it was said that there should be evidence that labour supply reforms improved Danish economy and the competitiveness of Danish business, then I would have had more respect for that view. The truth is, when we do this, it's because there are scientists who point out that this is part of the solution. There is massive evidence of this in order to be able to say both from the University of Copenhagen and Aarhus University. Sir. Hans Christian Schmidt may call for evidence, but sir... Hans Christian Schmidt and his party adopt lots of politics which there is no evidence to work, but which one believes is the right thing to do. Here we have solid evidence to say that this will improve biodiversity and that it is part of the response to the biodiversity crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130533	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peter Juel-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130536	Thank you. It is, of course, a little difficult to be wiser when the rapporteur does not answer the questions that come up. I think my colleague, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt asked a very relevant question: What is the effect of this? I don't think anyone disagrees with the purpose. One of the effects when we stop foresting wood in our own forests for our own consumption, because we need less plastic, we need less cement and we need less glass, is that we have to pick up that tree elsewhere. Does the rapporteur agree that we will then export our biodiversity crisis to other countries which will then have to keep up with the supply of timber? Don't they have a similar crisis? Is this even responsible?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130618	That is what we are doing today, for example. import biomass for heating and that is also why we are opposed to imports of biomass. The answer to this question is afforestation, that is to raise additional land for forest. We have plenty of land, lots of agricultural land, which today could be used for afforestation instead of because they are unproductive as agricultural land. However, afforestation must not be at the expense of nature, and therefore there must be room both for us to have untouched forests, for us to have natural parks and for us to have production forests. However, the production forest should not crowd out natural parks or untouched forests. The production forest may be places where otherwise there would be, for example. agricultural land. After all, the Enhedslisten has on several occasions proposed that afforestation should be increased both in order to have untouched forests, but also in relation to being able to secure production forest for the building materials of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130706	Sir. Peter Juel-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130708	Then we will deal with a climate challenge in 30, 50 or 100 years when there is new forest, so we can use the wood in our production to produce what we would otherwise need cement and plastic for. That is not an answer, I would say to the rapporteur. We don't need a either-or, we need a boat-and-a-boat. While we are remodeling as we plant new forest, we need to have some wood that we can use in production so that we do not work hard on the climate. This is so one-sided. It's all on the moon. Now we know the policy of Enhedslisten again, it is not thought through.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130742	In other words, if there is something completely on the moon, it is to imagine that the creation of natural national parks will be a major blow to the fight against climate challenges. It is not because it is there that all production forests in Denmark are located. Of course, new forests must be set up in order to create production forests. That is the way we resolve the issues. Yeah, it takes years, but we have to do that. At the same time, we also have to act on the climate challenges today, but it is not just in relation to this. We do so in a number of other areas. The point is precisely that there is room for resolving both a biodiversity crisis, a climate crisis and a global crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130822	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130826	Thank you for that, President. It is, of course, glorious that Mr. Peder Hvelplund has read some of my debates here in connection with the National Parks. And it is true that I have used the word fundamentalism. I have done so because for me natural fundamentalism is when one chooses a totally one-sided solution, where one relationship is superoptimised at the expense of other conditions. And there it is, of course, that we in the Left are appealing to: let us promote biodiversity, let us promote nature, where we take into account all the important things, among others. is mentioned in the forest law's purpose clause. There you can actually see what is important in relation to forests. But when one makes one-sided plans and believes unilaterally in rewilding, what I would like to use is the word fundamentalism, because then it is that one disregards all sorts of other considerations and overrides other ideas. That is what I think you are talking about with this concept, where you are not willing to take a timeout and try to engage in a dialogue with the people out there and engage in a dialogue with those foresters who have a lot of knowledge of forests, and with us other parties to get something done for which we can have broad popular support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203130932	But this is not exactly a one-sided solution, and I can reassure Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says that this will not be the only way to solve the biodiversity crisis. This is part of how we can do it; there are natural parks an important element. But there are plenty of other measures we need to do to solve this challenge. This is a question of 1 per cent. of the area of natural parks, and that is only a small element. Then there can be plenty of things in relation to climate forest, and how to have a sustainable forest management. There are plenty of other measures we can do. We can ban the use of pesticides, which can help to increase the biodiversity of insects, among others. beetles. There are many things we can do. This is only a step, but it is an important and a big step, and at least it is a step that previous governments have not been willing to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203131020	Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203131022	Yes, but these are violent steps which have clear disadvantages that have not been taken into account. These plans include about 12%. 12 per cent of the Danish forest area. Now we keep mentioning 1%, but the right figure is 12% when we talk about forests. Does Enhedslisten not recognize that it is of course important for Danish wood production that we take out such large areas? For what our sawmills depend on is, of course, to have a minimum volume for them to work. And if our sawmills start to close, we need to import wood in large quantities to meet our policy objectives of more wood in the construction sites as a substitute for concrete, iron and everything else. Can't Enhedslisten see that it could be good to reconcile the two considerations? Then I know that someone says that we'll just plant new woods, but it'll be 30-40 years before it can be used for building timber. So does the Enhedslisten not see that we can reconcile these considerations, that we can strengthen biodiversity while also continuing to have sensible wood production with near-forestry?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203131124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203131125	I mean, just to correct: when I talk about 1%, it's about 1%. of the area taken out. Now Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen does not yet know which areas will be designated as national parks, and therefore it is not possible to say what part of the forest area will be taken out. However, it may be regrettable that the whole process of raising further forests has not been started in the past. After all, this is an agenda that Enhedslisten has been raising for several years, i.e. that precisely there is a need to travel forest, also in order to produce building materials. But it is clear that the whole challenge of how we deal with the climate crisis and how we build with more sustainable materials is not solved in relation to the natural parks. This is about how we resolve a biodiversity crisis and how we create habitats for species that are otherwise extinct.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203131216	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203131238	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the relevant question debate. I do not know who came first, which party, but there is no doubt that the Conservatives in the old government would have liked to see an agreement on national parks. Nature and biodiversity are classic conservative issues. We have also worked for and voted in favour of more untouched forests, while focusing on the benefits of Danish forestry and afforestation, both in terms of climate and economic terms. The former Minister for the Environment was also quite enthusiastic about this, and it is probably only because there was a change of government that it became a red government that ended up making an agreement on natural national parks. Unfortunately, they did so only with their support parties, and this, combined with a very closed process, has certainly not reduced the frustrations. And that's probably why we're standing here again. It is not that there has been a lack of debate. There has been no lack of consultation either. We have also received a multitude of inquiries, both worthwhile and outright insolent and individual even with a touch of a threat. That's how it is when there are many emotions at stake, and that's how it is on the hatches when the players on the field go for kicking knees rather than kicking ball. Now, in fact, I think that everyone should give the proposed knee and shin a break and focus on the ball. And the ball that needs to be focused on is about citizen involvement or rather the lack of the same. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, when the draft law on national parks was at first reading: there must also be wild nature in Denmark, but why scare people away from nature where they actually use it? Many natural areas provide the framework for e.g.: run and mountain bike and walk with the dog and scouts on excursion. It's just to mention a few examples. It is violent, for example. involving entire forests, and it must be possible to find space for both animals and those using the forest, and in this context it is very important for us to involve citizens in the decision-making process on how natural parks should look. Although the government has not involved us and other bourgeois parties in the agreement on natural parks, they should at least involve those who have to live and live close to them. ▪ I do not think the Minister has listened to and responded to that part. On the contrary, I see that the government is closed and just tackles through without the necessary and statutory citizen involvement. There must be room for both industry, orientation, dog airing and everything else in interaction with nature. A little goodwill from everyone solves the problem best. I also understand that the postponement of the decision on the location of the parks is due to massive criticism. I certainly hope so, and I think that the Minister has confirmed it today. Therefore, my request from here is: Show some action, show that you are listening, show that even if you are kicked over the shin, the answer is not to kick again; no one wins anything by • and wins nature. Nature does, among other things. the creation of national natural parks based on political cooperation rather than exclusive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203131527	I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether there is a text for adoption to be presented. Mona Juu l (KF): It might well be that there is a text that I had to read aloud). That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203131533	Thanks for the trick. The adoption text from the Conservative People's Party reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament believes that natural parks are an important step on the way to strengthening biodiversity as well as outdoor life and natural experiences in Denmark. The Danish Parliament notes that in the Danish Parliament's Committee on the Environment and Food (MOF) as well as in the public debate serious concerns have been raised about the degree of citizen involvement in the work on natural parks. The Danish Parliament calls on the government to strengthen the involvement of citizens in the further process of the establishment of natural national parks, with a view to citizens being consulted, ensuring a balance between nature and local conditions and desires, and strengthening confidence in the establishment of parks. • V 37).
ParlaMint-DK_20220203131616	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then there is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Seligman. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203131620	Thank you. I just wanted to say a few words of thanks for a fine speech, and I am incredibly happy that we should all now focus on the ball. It is true that there is no doubt that this debate is marked by the fact that there are many who want to keep on saying one falsehood after another and like to keep repeating them. So I would like to sign for the speech and what was quite rightly said also that the rapporteur mentions in his speech that, of course, we must involve the citizens and that they must of course be involved in the way in which natural parks are to be organised. I would like to sign for that and say that, of course, they should. It is also important for us, as a Social Democrat, to say that some of what is also involved in this process is that when we have designated the natural parks, we go very, very close to the local area where, as the rapporteur also says, we must of course listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203131714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203131715	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203131724	There will then be no further brief comments to the rapporteur, and so I would like to thank the Conservative People's Party. The next party is New Citizens represented by the rapporteur, Mrs Mette Thiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203131743	The Danish landscape, which we have inherited, must be watched out. These are values that should not be subject to the whims of fashion or to random hits in ministries and agencies. The Danish landscape and nature must be treated with respect, both for history and for the future. Unfortunately, the Danish Nature Agency, which is the authority responsible for managing nature, has allowed itself a crazy idea of trying to recreate wild nature in Denmark. Rewilding they call it with a less Danish-sounding expression. That they can't manage to find a Danish word for their ideas, I guess they just confirm that it's more delusional than it makes sense. It is believed that animals should go out all year round and take care of themselves, they should find feed, and therefore they should be able to roam freely on larger areas in the natural areas. The consequences will be that you have to fence in the natural areas and that all traffic will take place under the conditions of the animals, and that is not a good idea. This means that kindergartens cannot use the natural parks. They cannot risk the children being run over by, for example, a herd of heifers, or they could also be young bulls, who may not be directly threatening, but who, as a child, are easily at risk of being trampled down by. It can also cause people with disabilities to get much harder to get into the wild, because foreheads and enclosures will simply be very difficult to force if you are in a wheelchair. The idea of rewilding is also strongly criticised by many veterinarians who do not believe that it is reasonable both to fence in animals and at the same time leave them to find food for themselves. They simply run the risk of starving and suffering. You have a responsibility for fenced animals, you have to make sure that they have enough food, that they are healthy and that they are healthy, so I kind of agree with the critics: Rewilding is just a bad idea. It is completely crazy to think that you can create wild nature in Denmark by fenced in some square kilometers of nature park. In June 2021, a majority of the Danish Parliament passed a bill by the Minister for the Environment, Lea Wermelin, and the bill allows the state's new national parks to apply for exemption from animal welfare requirements for care and supervision. By that law, the Minister for the Environment and the politicians who voted for the law believe that all animals in Denmark are no longer equal before the law. An otherwise inviolable right for animals has been violated. No livestock may be starved or tasted, including outdoor animals on full-year grass, nature care, rewilding or in the upcoming national parks. Because in New Citizens we take animal welfare very seriously. We believe that no livestock should be starved and smoked, including outdoor animals on full-year grass, nature care, rewilding or in future national parks. A number of sad stories from rewilding projects, among others. in Djursland, speaks their own perfectly clear and clear language: the state cannot guarantee animal welfare for the large grazing animals which the state puts onto the fenced-in areas, and we know that if the animal's natural food source runs out, for example. through a hard winter, so can lead to hunger, thirst, malnutrition, disease and death. It is a fact when national parks are fenced in, because they cannot seek food anywhere else as they would if they had lived wildly in nature. The Animal Protection, the Danish Veterinarian Association, the Veterinary Health Council, the Animal Health Council and Agriculture & Food have repeatedly warned the Environment Minister and the Support Parties about the problem. Unfortunately, there has been no willingness on the part of the Minister and the support parties to listen and to include animal welfare and veterinary knowledge in good time. In New Citizens, we believe that all animals are equal before the law. The law applies equally to all animals, whether they are outdoor livestock in nature care or national parks, or it is the case that a farmer has outdoor animals. But by making exceptions to the animal welfare law, the Minister for the Environment does not solve the problem. The Minister for the Environment simply takes away the responsibility of national parks for the necessary supervision and care of their animals. There will still be sick animals in the national natural parks of the state which are in danger of not having the necessary help and care, and we simply believe that this is an expression of disrespect for the animals and that it does not belong in the Danish legal community. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132225	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132228	Thank you. It is a bit, what to say, hard to say, that in national parks no animal should be tormented or tormented or starved etc. etc. and the rapporteur mentions the example of the Mountains of Mol. We are in agreement with that. So there were some examples of animals starving, and that is something that must not occur in a national park. Well, that's exactly the point of it, that we have a national park, that's that we have the authorities to make sure that that doesn't happen, of course. And that's why they're doing a check; that's why they're going to be constantly monitoring these animals, so we make sure they don't starve or be tormented or tormented, because of course that mustn't happen. And I also hope that the rapporteur will recognise that it is, of course, built into the agreement on natural parks that we must not torment, plague or starve animals in natural parks.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132332	The legislation on the basis of which it is possible to set up these natural parks makes it quite clear that it is possible to derogate from Article 3 and Article 9 of the Animal Welfare Act. One and two, I think it is. And that's just about the care of these animals. So, in principle, if you really wanted to avoid this massive opposition, you could simply remove that part from the legislation. However, they say that now you are putting an opportunity for a relaxation, or indeed a derogation, of the animal welfare law into the legislation, and then you keep saying: No, but that is not going to happen; we will certainly not do that. But how hungry should the animals be? Sir, I'm afraid so. Kasper Roug could answer that, too. I mean, how little hollow do they need before you take them out? Now we have seen the example of Mol's Mountains with the rewilding project there. How hungry are they supposed to be? How bad do they have to be? You find it in time and so on.? I mean, no. If you really mean it by animal welfare, you would remove the possibility of derogation from Article 3 and Article 9 of the Animal Welfare Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132433	Sir. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132434	Well, the point is they don't have to starve. I mean, these animals aren't supposed to starve and get thin. That's one of the points. It is an untruth when you keep saying that animals are going to starve. That's the whole point. They don't have to. And that's why I think it's a little too bad that we have to keep discussing the same thing here, and that the same untruth is being said over and over again that you can conclude that it's going to happen, etc. I can only conclude from the agreement that lies black and white that these animals are obviously not going to starve. It's the same as in the rest of the community. Ole Birk Olesen also mentioned it at the beginning. Well, there are a lot of intentions about this, and we must of course do everything we can to ensure that they are complied with. But we cannot guarantee that there are no people who would like to see these animals hurt and then hurry out there, I would have liked to have said. My point is that we cannot continue to have a debate in the Folketing in this way, where we keep saying one falsehood after another and keep repeating the message. I think that is a pity, because there are no parties, as I hear it, that want these animals in the national parks, which have not yet been properly established, to starve. So I think it's a bad level we've come down to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132544	I think it is a pity that the rapporteur repeatedly shows his total ignorance about this. I think that is really, really boring, especially because the rapporteur is the rapporteur for the governing party, who is in charge of this. So, if you really meant it with animal welfare, it would be the easiest thing in the world simply to remove it by derogating from Section 3 and Section 9 of the Animal Welfare Act. It should be quite simple. I mean, you're standing there saying that the rest of us are untruths, but we're actually just mentioning the real worries of ^ as I've mentioned earlier several organizations, veterinarians, etc. that are really worried about this. But then you sit with this, what should I say, completely twisted attitude that wild nature is something you do behind fences, and then you put domesticated animals who haven't lived freely in there, and then they probably get wild because you don't feed them. No, but come on!
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132633	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132635	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for her concern about animal welfare and nature at all. The part of the law we are discussing in relation to the national parks is, after all, acting. on supervision. That is also a matter of supervision in agriculture. I doubt whether that legislation protects against the suffering of animals. In agriculture, for example, people die. 28,000 piglets a day, and 80 per cent. of the hens break the sternum, where there is also this requirement for supervision. Can the rapporteur not agree that it is perhaps not entirely certain that the requirement of supervision prevents the suffering that it was actually made to prevent in agriculture?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132731	We can easily talk about whether to look at the animal welfare law that is in place. We can easily agree to do so. I also hope that the rapporteur, as I know very much about animal welfare, can agree that this is a slippery slope. That is, of course, what I am advocating, i.e. that you simply make a law where you are dispensing from it in one area. That is why I asked the rapporteur before: are there any other areas where it is felt that we should be able to dispense with the law, which I know the whole parliament was behind, because we agreed that animals should be looked after?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132802	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132804	Now it is the case that all those who agree with this debate, both those who are concerned about national parks and those who are not, are concerned about animal welfare. Does the rapporteur believe that we are really, really trying to create really good conditions for these vulnerable animals by putting out flocks that fit the areas, so that there is enough food and resources, so that we simply have so few animals that there is food and that with proactive management, that is to say, looking forward to the winter that will come, trying to set up the herd, how it might look in relation to the area, and that we are trying to create good conditions with reactive management, that is, if the animals get too thin, some of them will be taken out? Does the rapporteur accept that we are really making a huge effort to ensure that animals have a very good life?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132851	To be quite honest: no, I do not actually do that when it is maintained that this possibility of derogation is still in law. Because you could just remove it, that is, it's as simple as that. The whole idea of making wild nature behind fences, I think, is something weird to be completely honest. And again, it's domestic animals. Well, there are no wild horses anymore. They are domestic animals that are put out, and then they say: Now we take a step back; now they are just allowed to take care of themselves, and then they get wild. Well, I think the vast majority of people can see that they probably don't. But start by removing the possibility of derogation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132936	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next party on the platform is the Liberal Alliance by Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203132949	Thank you. Denmark does not make a great contribution to the biodiversity of plants and animals in the world. We have plants and we have animals in Denmark, but we do not have many, compared to what it was like when there was more wild nature in Denmark. It is, of course, because we have exploited our country, in periods of almost the last square centimetre, either to allow people to live there or to be able to farm more or less intensively, where everything else is ploughed down and try to ensure that there are only cereals, beet, maize or the like in the field. This gives a country that is poor in biodiversity and, as we have become richer and richer and have made more profits, we have begun to think that we might now be able to start giving some of our country back to nature. The idea of national parks is precisely that: that some of our country, a very small part of our country, must be given back to some real nature that was here in Denmark before we humans eradicated it. This is less than 1%. of Denmark's area, and at one percent one will thus give the possibility that there may be the nature that once existed in almost the whole of Denmark. It is a nature where there are some larger grazing animals. In the old days it was wild horses and European bison and aurochs. We no longer have aurochs; they have been refined and tamed. Wild horses are found in many places in the world, but some have previously been domestic horses that have become wild, and they are now living wild, and they have also been bred on those horses so that they are more and more like the kind of horses that were at the time when the horses were wild in Europe. So these are the kinds of animals we would like to put into those areas, so that we at least have less than 1%. of Denmark's area may have the nature that once filled almost the entire area of Denmark. The reason why it is important to have this kind of nature is that evolution is so cleverly designed that our potential wealth of species in Denmark, which we could have, is based on, as Denmark was during the millennia when the species developed. The fact that we humans have cleared most of Denmark for residential or intensive farming is a relatively new idea, although we who live today, when we look back 1,000 or 2,000 years, think that it is then many years. But in relation to the history of the whole world and the history of Denmark, many, many thousands of years have gone by. And it is in the many, many thousands of years that have gone before that the wealth of species that can potentially be in Denmark evolved through evolution. So we say that at less than 1%. of Denmark's area we would like to have some natural national parks where that kind of nature can be, and it has some costs for some people. Some people think that it is very bad if there are fences around the national parks, but the fence is a prerequisite for us to have horses and cattle in there. In Denmark, we will not accept that when we drive around a road near a national park, a cow suddenly appears in front of us that we drive into, not only killing the cow, but also killing several of the passengers in the car. We will not accept that in Denmark, and that is why it is necessary for us to be able to have these large animals out in real nature, after all, that a fence can be set up. If you do not accept the fence, you will not accept the large animals, and if you do not accept the large animals, you cannot accept an original wild nature in Denmark. You can make a big deal of the negative consequences that some people think there are about this, and you certainly have to listen to all people and see if you can respond to the objections, and find out how best to do this, so that the most objections are met. But by the end of the day we are still where we have to make a decision about: Do we want more real and wild nature in Denmark, or do we not? And if we want to, we go this way, even if there are some people who think that it has some negative consequences for them, because all decisions we make in this Parliament have negative consequences for some people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203133453	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I see no rapporteur from the Green Group present in the Chamber. But I see the rapporteur from the alternative, Mr. Torsten Gejl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203133511	Thank you. I am proud to have been a Danish politician in the time when we have made 15 national parks in Denmark. Nature has been neglected for many years in Denmark, and fortunately we are doing something about it. And I'm sure it'll be a success. It will be very different national parks, which will be around Denmark. In some places it becomes dunes, in others heat meadows. In some places it becomes forest, elsewhere large meadows. And, as was the case in the morning of time, there must also be large grassers, who ensure light openings in the forest, who enrich biodiversity with their excrement, and who truffle through the soil and spread seeds. I look very much forward to seeing the diversity and biodiversity that will emerge in all those places. It will of course be 100 years from now that we will really be able to see how fine it will be. But I'm going to live another 20-30 years, so I think I'll get something out of it too. But I also note the concerns that exist. And I note that those concerns come from people who are nature-lovers and who have a very, very big heart for animal welfare. And it is clear that those concerns are helping to make me even sharper in terms of ensuring good animal welfare and access to nature in our national parks. But I can also delight many of those people with the fact that many of those concerns are fortunately groundless. As far as access is concerned, many people fear that they will not be able to enter national parks. And here I took a walk with the forester who made the natural migration on Mols, where we looked at potential natural parks. It was the forester from Kronjylland, and he said: All the places where there is now access to the forest by roads and paths, there will still be holes in the fence. So all the places where you can enter the potential areas now, you will also be able to do so when they become national parks of nature. With regard to the fences, there are also many who are concerned about them, and in particular about the fact that there will be some high fences which, among other things, will be high fences. will mean that the wild animals in the forests cannot get in and out. We work very much with low wire fences, electric shock fences, and they can keep oxen in, they can keep steers in, they can keep horses in. But they don't keep the wild animals inside. For example: They don't disturb the hiking trails of the red wild because the red wild just jumps over them. So I don't think you should worry about that either. As far as hunger is concerned, it is clear that we are well aware that when, for the first time in 5-6-10 years, a hungry animal will be photographed by some activists and smashed in the media, it will be a big matter. So not least because of the attention that will be, we will do everything we can to ensure that these natural parks become paradise for animals. It will be regulated in such a way that we put the sizes of flocks into the national parks for which there is room in terms of size, so that there is food and resources for the animals. Then it is regulated reactively and proactively; you look forward to a winter and make sure that there are no more animals than you expect the conditions of the coming winter to be able to cope with. If it turns out that some of them are getting too thin, you can take them out. So there will be a supervision and a glance for that case all the way through the whole time. I would also like to correct another misunderstanding, because it has been said that the animals in the national parks are starving. So I would like to say that we have not put a single animal into any national natural park that is suffering, that is starving or that is in any other way ill. There are no examples. However, I understand the concerns of those who care about nature and animals, and I would like to say that I hope for very good cooperation with those people who have those concerns. I believe that this will happen once we have decided where the national parks will be, because they will not disappear. Well, there will be 15 national parks. But the good forester from Kronjylland, whom I referred to before, and who showed around Mols, also told that much more calm fell on when the National Park in Fussingø was determined. It was not the case that all the locals just began to love the one who was still opposed to it but the cooperation very much changed to those who had previously been critics, now doing everything they could to make it practical, so that it suited the local needs so that the entrances where they were supposed to be were obtained; so that the whole thing was practically designed so that those who lived there were as much satisfied with it as possible. I also believe that once we have set up these 15 national parks, we must draw close to all the people who have these concerns. And together with them, we have to make sure that we find the right local solutions every place where these are supposed to lie. And for us, it's just the first 15 people to be laid down. The alternative is perfectly clear to use this to make 15 more when the time comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203134029	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The rapporteur has thus been completed and so I can give the floor to the Minister for the Environment. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203134043	Thank you. And thank you for a good debate... most of it. There is also, I think, a need to clarify at least some things in this debate. But where I really want to start is what I also started with in answering this question: why are we standing here today? We do this because nature is in crisis. And I was actually pleased that the rapporteur of the Left said that natural parks are the BMW model. So, in my ears it sounds very good. Of course it must be the electric car version that the rapporteur thinks about. But I kind of think it sounds very good. This is something that has been in demand for many years, if you look at the reports that lie there so how we look after Denmark's nature. And there I think that the debate we have had here today, at least very well shows that, of course, there may be some concerns, and I will come back to them, but that what it is basically about is: Will you help to give a historic boost to Denmark's nature? That is where I have to say that I think that in this debate the rapporteur of the Left has very much doubted and watered down all this work instead of, if you think that the natural crisis is there and we have to act on it, going fully into this work. So what have the experts pointed out? Hans Christian Schmidt asked that repeatedly. And you can say that there is no answer, but if you do not listen, you certainly will not get an answer. Now he is not here in the Chamber, but I would nevertheless like to list to all those who may be listening what the experts are really referring to. Firstly, it is the establishment of more self-managing natural areas of more than 1,000 hectares. Yeah, that's exactly what we want this to be, too. Then they point to the restoration of natural hydrology. Is that clear? Yeah, it's in. Then they point to untouched forest. Is this part of the tools we use in national parks? Yeah, that's one of the tools. And then, like the fourth, they point to the restoration of key species and their ecosystem functions. That's one of the things that has filled a lot in this debate. Is that clear? Yeah, it's in. And it is because that is what the experts are pointing to. So it is four out of the five recommendations, the options that they mention, where they say: on the basis of everything we know, us experts who know all about the scientific reports, what is it we recommend here in Denmark, what is it that is needed? And four out of the five recommendations correspond to nature parks, and I think that is a very good place to stand. Then there are all sorts of concrete things that have filled the debate, such as access. And that is where I think it is important to make it clear that there will be no change in access to state natural areas with natural parks. You have to come all year round 24 hours a day. There's full access. Does this mean that we should not take seriously those concerns, for example, from outdoor life or from those who may be insecure by the exposure of large grassers? No, of course we should take it seriously. It's something new for those who haven't been used to going there. However, this is not the same as changing the rules on access, which is why I believe that we can find good local solutions. That is also what I hear from many of the open-air organisations who love to take our children and young people out into the wild from the scouts, from some of the kindergartens who have good experience with it. They really want to help ensure that we also get more naturalisation in Denmark. It is one of the Danish values that we have that we let our children climb trees, that they come out and experience nature. And that is exactly what we also hope they will come to in the new national parks, because nature will also be more exciting. There is simply more to be experienced. If there are more species, it is also more exciting than in a production forest where the tribes are equal. So we'd really like that. Then the whole question of dialogue and involvement is asked. For me it means a great deal to listen to the different local areas that are. And all the national parks that will come will also be different. They will, partly because the natural areas are different, partly because they are different areas, and partly because there are different things to be taken into account. It may be Lild Strand, which has been mentioned here today and is located up by Vester Thorup, which is one of the gross areas. But the line around it is not the fence line, it is the area. And I can understand it if you say: You have to pay attention to the fact that we are a community here; remember us in relation to that fence. There must be a dialogue on this, both with the municipality, but we are also listening to the input from those citizens. Then there is the issue of animal welfare, and it has also filled a lot in this debate. There is something that has been repeated many times, and unfortunately there is also such a bit of a facebook machine out there, where, regardless of what the law says, and despite what we stand and say in this Chamber, you continue to claim something that is simply not true. And that is why I can only again stress here from Parliament's platform that we want good animal welfare. Animals in national parks must not starve. And as the alternative rapporteur said up here, natural parks are not even out there yet, and there are no animals that can starve in the national parks, because they do not exist at all. But there is no party, there is no rapporteur, there is no politician, I have heard that we should not deal with animal welfare. What this is all about is supervision. And why is there that difference? Pia Kjærsgaard keeps asking. And I'll try to see if I can explain this from the platform. First, there is the question of whether there may well be a difference between what is public and what is private. Now we have announced that we have started looking at how we can do the same on private land as we do here on state land. So for us it's not a either-or; it's a question of us starting on state land, and then we go on to voluntarily make some of these exciting natural measures on private land. But it is not the case that there is no difference in other areas. If we take public forest areas, then there is much more access to the land that we jointly own than to the land that the farmer owns or that is private forestry. So there can be plenty of places in Denmark where there is a difference whether it is private or public. And here it's all about the character of the area... it's significantly bigger, huge natural areas that we want you to be able to use these tools on. However, I would rather make sure that private individuals who own such areas can do exactly the same as we are proposing here, and that is what we are doing, and we will then have a wide debate with the parties of the Danish Parliament. Then there is the question of the fences. I think it might be very good to remember that already today there are 38,000 hectares of our state nature areas that have grazing animals and Ergo fences. Because we can't have the grazing animals walking without a fence. And in some of these vast natural areas, we can even remove the inner fences, so there may even be fewer miles of fences. Then it is said that this is only for high fences, but it is also wrong. It is true that there will be some places where it is game fences if you are to put out the browsers that New Citizens talked about. And if it isn't already there, then it takes a fence, but you can make sure that all the natural game can come back and forth freely. And in most places we imagine that these will be the two threads that we know from most of the agricultural land and that will keep grazing cattle or horses in, so that they will not go out on the road, as the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said. And that's exactly right. So the fence has to keep the animals in, but not people out. And it is very important that all Danes who have brought nature under their skin here during the corona crisis are also invited to the national parks. I think it was also from the Left that it was not about land. But it's wrong. It's about space and more space, you might say. That is exactly what is being pointed out. And that's why it doesn't matter how big the areas are. It's not like you can't compromise or listen to local wishes and talk about fence lines and all this, of course, we can. This is exactly the process that is under way. I myself meet with mayors and talk to them about the local concerns, and that is perfectly legitimate. But that's just not true, if you say it doesn't matter, because there's that leads me to the very last thing I can say, I can look at the time. We have a historical opportunity for Danish nature. Year after year, from report after report, decade after decade, we have known that things are going the wrong way. But, of course, we've also seen light spots when we've done something, it's actually made a difference, and I find that a lot of Danes enjoy it. They want more nature, they love the natural areas they have in the backyard. Actually, they want to. And then we have to do it in a way that we find the good local solutions. But let us not repeat the mistake we made in relation to the climate crisis, when we discussed for so many years whether or not we should do what? So if you say from this platform that biodiversity is in crisis, you also owe a response to how to solve it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135057	Thank you to the Minister, also for being unusually precise with the use of speaking time. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister, and that is only from Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135108	I would also like to thank the Minister for bringing the question to a close. When Mrs Zenia Stampe was in the debate earlier, we had a dialogue in which Mrs Zenia Stampe considered that if local authorities were to be given the opportunity to have the right of veto and to say that they would not have natural parks in their territories, because there is also a need to live with the consequences, then the vast majority of municipalities would say no. Is the government's thinking about choosing these areas how to stand at local level? Because I think that there must be a reason why, where you know the area best, you say no to what is being rolled out by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135155	First of all, I would like to say that I have tremendous respect for the local politicians we have in Denmark, who manage a great deal of responsibility, and I also find that nature has filled a great deal here during the municipal election campaign. I think we are almost sneaking up on the fact that all of the municipalities in Denmark have joined the competition that I have put out to become the wildest municipality in Denmark, and that says something about the natural movement that is in Denmark: we want a wilder nature, that is what this is all about. Then I think that some of what has been involved in relation to the national parks is that it is something new, but it is also some of the claims that have been going on out there over and over again that the animals are going to starve. A barbed wire fence has been depicted on TV MIDTVEST. There's nothing that could be more wrong than what this is about. Does it have an impact on how you stand? Yes, I think it does, and that is why I myself believe very much in dialogue. This is one of the things we are actually quite good at here in Denmark, and we are also endeavouring to listen to the criticism and to have the dialogue in relation to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. That's what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135257	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135258	It is true that the vast majority of municipalities have signed up for this competition for wilder nature, and that is very good, but it must nevertheless give rise to some kind of consideration by the Minister that they would like to have more wild nature locally, but that they just do not want to have it under the auspices of the national parks and in the way they would then be arranged. Does it not give reason for reflection and for saying that if you have two places to choose from, then you go with what they locally say they want, as opposed to choosing a place where they locally, with the elected representatives in the lead, say: we are not so happy about this? And then the last thing I can ask is: what is the expectation of the Minister in relation to when to designate the next ten national parks?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135339	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135341	One of the things that annoys me about the way the Left puts itself in this debate is that you go into that yes-no trap yourself. At any rate, it is forgotten to say that a number of municipalities have also invited in. There is the mayor of Elsinore who wants a national park in Hellebæk. There is the mayor of Vordingborg who wants a National Park in Wolfshale. There is the mayor of Langeland who finds it exciting with a national park where you already have grazing horses. There's Kolding reporting an area. The same applies to Tønder. Where are all the municipalities in the debate? They're not here. In relation to the last question, I should like to say that we have not set a date, and that is because we are in the process of dialogue, but it is clear that we will soon have to start where it will be, and that is why I do not expect there to be too much time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135426	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135427	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. The Minister says several times that she is incredibly interested in listening and that she has a great deal of respect for the local government of the people. Then she mentions some areas where you're very interested in these national parks, but she's not really answering Mr. Jacob Jensen's question. For if the Minister is so interested in listening, if the Minister has such great respect for the local government, as the Minister stands on the Kingdom's most distinguished platform and claims, why does the Minister not give a promise today and say that we are going only where there is local support for it, but where associations, where institutions and where city councils unanimously, including the Minister's own party colleagues, say that we do not want it here, well we are just deleting them from the list? Wouldn't that be listening? Wouldn't that be respectful?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135522	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135523	In fact, I think that the issue here is very well characterised by the rather indecisive debate which has also been on the part of the Left in this. Because it is quite fair that there may be legitimate issues, concerns. Now I was also in the Bidstrup Forests, also on a part of the natural migration. This is part of the local debate. So I am very happy to talk to the citizens, the associations who ask what is really going to happen with their open air life in the future. The same goes for the mayor. So I don't really buy that thing putting it up as one-sidedly as sir. Dahlin's doing here. I don't think it's the first time. I know a little bit about the form of the debate. In fact, I do not think it suits the great task we have here, namely to say that we have a promise to Danish nature. We are in the midst of a biodiversity crisis. Let's try to find the local solutions. That is actually our starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135617	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135619	I think it would suit the Minister to keep attacks on my person out and then just simply answer the question. Because if the Minister tries the dialogue that the Minister has tried and the leisure arrangements, the institutions and the city councils say no anyway, and that we do not want it, Madam Minister, we disagree with you, we do not want it in our local area, why can't the Minister just promise and say that she will of course listen to that? Or does the Minister's respect apply only to respect for the local institutions, respect for the city councils, respect for the associations, if only they agree with the Royal Danish Social Democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135700	However, it is difficult not to describe what the rapporteur says as very unmanageable when using such rhetorical tricks. It's fine. That is quite fair in the debate here too. This isn't about personal attacks. That's just saying that's not the way I go about it. I am actually going to the dialogue with mayors in Lejre, in the other places, regardless of whether you, as mayor, have entered positively or say that we are really worried, and as a starting point we have a majority that does not want to be there. Well, then, the dialogue is basically the same. I would really like to have a dialogue with the mayors, with those associations. I myself have met with the open-air organisations, and that is why I am not buying the paragraph that the rapporteur is putting forward here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135744	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135747	Thank you. I just need the Minister to confirm that it is not actually compulsory to set up fences in the national parks. In fact, I think it is quite clear in section 61A paragraph. 4, that enclosure is an option, but that it is not compulsory. I need to confirm that once again. I have also asked about this in consultation, because it is clear that there are a lot of people who believe that there should be a fence. It is, as I see it, an opportunity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135815	Thank you for the question. I understand that this is being asked, because it is something that is very much in the debate. The way in which natural parks are organized is that they are based on the local area. Compared with the large grassers, it can be said that where they can supply the grazing pressure that needs to be done it may be where you have large crown stock in advance, or there may be game reserves where they do not move so much, because there is no public access in advance you can set it up without fences. It is, for example. what we see in the academic proposal that has come from the Danish Nature Agency about Strøsø in West Jutland. What can just be the problem in many places, and probably in most places too, is that there is not a natural stock of red game in advance, and therefore you cannot make the model without fences, because then there will be growing. This is indeed one of the major problems for our nature very many places. That is why we already have 38,000 hectares of grazing. It is because in many places there is a problem of overgrownness. So that will be the local starting point. So that is both a yes to it, but also the answer that there will be a fence in many places.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135921	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135922	Thank you. Does the Minister also say that a possible enclosure can be stopped locally? Natural parks can simply be set up without a fence. I am thinking here, for example. on Gribskov. There, in relation to red deer, an electric fence has been planned. There is little enthusiasm for this, and it is also understandable. It's in the middle of the woods, and it can bring some challenges. But is it possible to block it locally? Is this the kind of listening that the Minister is out in, or what exactly does it look like when it comes to the matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203135951	Now there are two things that go wrong: blocking something and listening. That is why the dialogue is going both ways. However, as I have also said earlier today, we are interested in the dialogue with those who have these natural areas in the middle of their municipality, knowing that they are state land. We must take that into account in the overall solution. What can just be the problem in many places is, if we have a natural area which, without grazing, will thus get into trouble because of the growing, we have to have the grasses, and there is a fence with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203140027	Thank you to the Minister for the Environment. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As I have said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will only take place next week, on Tuesday 8 February 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220203140044	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 4 February 2022, kl. 10:00. I will refer you to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
