ParlaMint-DK_20220325100007	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Health (Magnus Heunicke): Bill no. L 149 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Medical Devices, the Law on the Scientific Treatment of Clinical Tests of Medical Devices, etc., the Law on the Scientific Treatment of Health Sciences and Health Data Science Research Projects and the Health Act. Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Thomas Danielsen (V), Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt (SF), Andreas Steenberg (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Mai Mercado (KF), Peter Skaarup (DF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Susanne Zimmer (FG), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Jens Rohde (KD), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Lars Løkke Rasmussen (UFG): Motion for a resolution No. B 193 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the elimination of all taxes on petrol and diesel (citizen's proposal)). Liselott Blix (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG), Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG) and Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG): Request no. F 49 (Will the Minister inform the Government of its position to introduce a licensing scheme for psychomotor therapists following the qualified responses of Danish Psychomotor Therapeuters of 8 October 2021 to the Minister's reply to the Health Committee's question no. 1558 (alm. part) from the 2020-21 parliamentary year, so that patients in the health care system, the elderly in the care of the elderly and private people who are addressing therapists can be ensured safe and professionally funded treatment and care of psychomotor therapists?). René Christensen (DF) and Morten Messerschmidt (DF): Hasteforskning nr. F 50 (Does the government intend to repay more money to the Danes, and is the government open to tax or tax reductions so that more Danish households can get help with the towering energy prices?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs (Jep Kofod) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement on selected international organisations (OSCE, Council of Europe and Council of Baltic States). 14). The statement will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 5 April 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325100144	The debate is open. And first it's the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325100218	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for the opportunity to discuss, in my view, an extremely important area, which unfortunately gets far too little publicity in the general public, which may well be surprising, because it is our adult and continuing training system, which is the whole prerequisite for continuing to have relevant qualifications when it comes to so many years in the labour market. And that is a basic requirement for green conversion and all sorts of other things. So this is incredibly important and, in my opinion, is far too little. So thank you for picking this up. What is being proposed is, after all, a comprehensive analysis and reform of the overall continuing training system. I would like to put it this way: we have so far started it because, among other things, we have done so. is what the Reform Commission is about to do. In other words, we agree on the whole point, namely that we have to analyse it thoroughly and then take some decisions. And the first part we're doing. However, if we are to sort out the background to the fact that this area is important, what we need to do with the analyses, what we would have liked to do, when we have started the Reform Commission to work on the analysis work, it is simply because everything is evolving; some things develop slowly, and sometimes things develop rapidly, and this is especially true of the labour market, where what we learn as a young person can become obsolete. Think of the typographers and typography, where what those who are now 60 years of age learned when they took their typography training as young people, so during their time in the labour market has become obsolete, and you have had to have some completely different qualifications in terms of entering the new digital age. So things may be out of date 10 years later, 20 years later or more, and therefore there is a need for some people to learn something completely new, to get a whole new subject, and there may also be a need to have new challenges, that is, simply to change track, but it may also be a question of learning new techniques in a subject, because things have simply changed a lot within one's subjects. So when the world develops, it is essential that we develop with it and we as a society make it available and that we try to keep pace with the world around us. And that is precisely why we have the adult and continuing training system, in other words simply to keep pace with the labour market that is evolving. The good opportunities in the labour market for unskilled and skilled workers depend to a large extent on whether they have good conditions for continuing to maintain and develop their skills. This, of course, is particularly topical and what most people know about in connection with the green transition, and that is why it is so good an example to use, namely because the climate crisis and in particular the green transition is one of the greatest challenges of our time. And we have set both the Climate Act and the 70-percent target a reduction target that is among the most ambitious in the world. It comes as an unstoppable train, and everyone in the labour market will in some way be affected by it, which is why, of course, those who were trained as electricians 30 years ago, through the adult and continuing training system, either have already learned or are learning some of the new techniques that need to be done in relation to the new tasks that exist. So a well-functioning continuing training system is absolutely essential for the labour market. So it is crucial for the economy and for the whole, but of course it is also important for the individual to be able to retain a place in the labour market. That is the position of the government, and I read from the Left's paper here that it is also the position of the Left and that we are thus united in it. And I believe that this is an attitude shared by all the parties in the Folketing, and that is perhaps because there is rarely much conflict about it that it does not fill so much in the press, or there may be other reasons for it, but that is at least the reality. There are challenges in the continuing training system that need to be addressed. There has been a fairly large decline over the last decade in relation to the use of different parts of our continuing training system, and we must of course do something about that. The government is therefore also doing both the analysis work required through the Reform Commission, but also preparing the concrete initiatives aimed at raising the skills of skilled and unskilled workers and supporting the green transition. In the project called "Denmark can do more," we propose to make the training promise permanent, and funds have also been set aside for the new climate vocational schools, which include young people, but also adults. However, the Reform Commission is currently working on recommendations for adult and continuing education, and they are expected to be published in early April. This means that we are very close to finalising the analysis work, and that is why it may seem a little beside setting in motion a new analysis work, that is to say, when we are now finishing the analysis work which is to be the basis for the decisions to be taken. Then, too, we have tripartite debates in the field of adult and continuing training in this spring, and this follows on from the fact that the Reform Commission makes its recommendations. Those negotiations will be launched during this spring, which means that there is, of course, a lot of preparation going on in these days. In addition to this, there is an independent discussion in which, among other things, I am concerned. met the various parties from the vuc sector and the parties from the amu sector. Because I also think that there is a discussion about the structural space, both in relation to the economic models they have, but also in relation to the location they have in the overall educational picture and what structure it is and what framework it is around them. And it is a job that has now gone on for the past six months, and that means that we also have an expectation of being able to conclude on the first parts during this spring. There are great difficulties. In particular, the vuc sector has, of course, suffered a great deal in relation to the economy and level of activity, because part of their pupils have entered the new fgu system. I think this was the right approach in terms of student glasses, but of course it leaves a sector with very great difficulties in relation to the economy because it has caused a marked reduction in the number of pupils. Similarly, one of the major problems across both vuc and amu is that they are extremely exposed to cyclical fluctuations. That is, of course, good, because it means being sucked into the labour market when there is room, and we should be happy about that, but every time it happens, activity falls. And because the economy is screwed up in a way where the economy and activity are closely linked, the curtain is ripped away under the sector every time there is a boom. And I see both the amu sector and the vuc sector as a kind of preparedness, that is to say, in the sense that when the recession hits, it is a bit like when the house burns, where we actually want to have a fire department that is there; it should not be found only when a fire is set in the house. And the problem with the way we have screwed up the economy now is that you have to come up with the system when activity suddenly increases due to recession. That's not gonna work. In other words, there is a rather stable teacher group and also rather stable facilities, so that we can accept the wave of additional entries that comes during the times when unemployment is rising. So summa summarum: I think we're really good at it. We have a really good dialogue both with the social partners and with the sector that is lifting both amu and vuc. And we have an expectation that there will be negotiations here during the spring. And that is why I do not think it is so appropriate for us to start a new group of analyses when, in my opinion, we have reached the point where the analyses are being completed and we can then, on the other hand, start making decisions. It will be an extension link where I actually think we are being where no more analysis is needed. Some decisions need to be taken and we need to ensure that adult and continuing training gets under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101021	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101025	Thank you. Thank you for the Minister's introductory speech here. It is good to hear that we basically share it here, we should call it passion for continuing training. I had a feeling that the Minister would point to the Reform Commission, and that is also relevant in this context. What concerns me a little is that when you listen to the Reform Commission, they talk about these second-generation reforms, and they say that these are reforms that have a very long-term perspective, where, when I talk to the parties in the amu and vuc sectors, i.e. the whole field of continuing training, I hear that right now we are on a burning platform. Couldn't the Minister put some words on how to look at this with the long-term perspective, versus we're standing on a burning platform right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101118	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101119	It is actually precisely because of the burning platform that there was a thrill going through me that the Left would now start a new analysis work because the burning platform means that we need to make some decisions now, not that we are waiting for another analysis. So I believe that decisions need to be taken now, in close cooperation with the parties in this area, and not to have to wait for a new analysis. I believe that the parties, both the social partners, but also the vuc sector and the amu sector, have played in with some very good proposals on how to remedy the burning platform that is currently in place and the acute problems they face. They have also given some very good proposals on the medium-term perspective, and the Reform Commission will then uncover the long-term. In other words, I do not see why we need an extra piece of analysis so that we cannot get to grips with the decision. I think we should get started.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101210	Kenneth Mikkelsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101212	Thank you. In fact, the analysis could then be carried out fairly quickly, because I do share the Minister's view that there is a great deal of data in this area. Many of the players have invited in. The question is to bring it together and then we can start discussing it politically. So couldn't the Minister put a little word on the time perspective in this? I have taken note of the various issues which the Minister has listed here. When are we going to have political discussions in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101246	I have a clear expectation that we have not only begun but also largely completed it on this side of the summer holiday. And the part that is about trialogue negotiations, we start during this spring, after all, the hope is always bright green. I do not know how long the negotiations will take, but it is intended that the trialogue negotiations, which are, of course, the place where we take decisions that are not about the long term, but are actually about here and now, and about what sort of action is going to be taken in the sea, will start in the course of the spring. I expect them to be completed by summer... the hope is bright green. With regard to the parts relating to the vuc sector and the emu sector, we will certainly have started them on this side of the summer holiday.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101322	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101325	Thank you. I am now speaking mostly because I am at the end of the rapporteur's line and there are a great many meetings in the ministries today, and I just want to say that I am completely in line with the Minister's view that it is not analyses that are needed. I would also just like to ask that, when we discuss these things, we do not always put on the hat that says that we need very major reforms. Many times small things have to be changed. I sometimes think that, when we pursue those huge reform tracks, we are going to create as many problems as there were before. It may be that there are many things that need to be looked at, but an elephant must be eaten in small bites. I am just a little concerned that it may not be such a great reform, but that we take things in the order in which they are to be taken, so that together we resolve the problems and also in a way that they are subsequently complementary to them, it must live with it in the real world outside Christiansborg's walls. That was just my comment on it, because I have to leave for a meeting in a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101434	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101435	Thank you. I agree with that. I never believed in the fact that now we're just letting everyone switch places in some sector, and when they've all got a new desk, we've probably solved the problems. In this way, I do not think that making a structural change in itself necessarily brings anything other than the fact that the staff are busy doing something other than what they are supposed to do. So I kind of agree with that. When I met with the parties around vuc it was this week or last week; I can't remember that I urged them to make a bid on exactly this, i.e. whether there is or isn't a need for us to do something about the actual basic structure on vuc. It is simply because vuc has changed and because conditions and frameworks around vuc have changed so much that one can discuss whether the form it has today is the best. It has been in other forms in the past, which perhaps gave a better grip on their ability to carry out the task they have. If they come back to me and say that there is absolutely no need for that, then I think it should be completely buried. On the other hand, I would like to say that it is such a poor sector that I will not deny that it is the only way to save it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101544	Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101547	Thank you. I therefore agree that there is no need for us to have a completely fundamental analysis of this, because we are well aware of some of the problems. I actually believe that we share the view of those in the Left, the Social Democrats and the Radical Left: we need to have an economic model for our continuing training sector, which also lasts when there is a boom, so that we actually take advantage of the possibility of a boom to get some prepared for a recession. On the other hand, we also have a desire in the Radical Left that we very, very soon begin some negotiations on this. For now the Minister has called for negotiations on a new institutional policy, such as: It is the government's own proposal that youth education should be extended throughout the country. We would very much like this to be part of the negotiations so that we can start the negotiations very soon. And so I agree with KD that there may not be a need to throw up all the pieces, but there is a need to throw out a rescue wreath. So I hope that the Minister will give an undertaking that we can have that in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101650	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101652	I think it was myself who held the rapporteur because we had a meeting just before we went to the Chamber. That is why I think it is my fault that the rapporteur came just a few minutes later. In other words, I managed to give that undertaking to the rapporteur of the Left before radicals came in here after meeting that was in my area. So it is not self-inflicted that the rapporteur did not hear that part. However, I have the expectation that we will be able to start negotiations before the summer. That is to say, during this spring we can finish those things. I have started the process of involvement in relation to both the vuc sector and the amu sector. In fact, I did so before Christmas, so it has been going on for six months now. I think we're starting to have the bricks for it. But the last question I put to the vuc sector, which I have just asked, is this one with the basic structure. So, they have made 14 or 15 offers, I think it is, of concrete changes where it is precisely on the ball street, as Mr. Jens Roh mentioned. And I am so left with the fact that I am simply unsure whether it will solve it. Student activity has fallen to such a low level that I doubt whether it actually solves the problem. That is why I have sent it back with the question: can the pants hold?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101800	Anne Sophie Callesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101801	Then the Minister has been very quick to give the undertaking, because it is true that I came into the Chamber just a few minutes later. But, of course, I'm only happy about that. I understand it's before summer. In other words, we want the negotiations to be part of what we now have on a new institutional policy. Is that how I should understand the undertaking?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101819	No, that's actually not how it's supposed to be understood. And that is because I would like us to be able to put an end to that part of institutional legislation quite quickly, and I would like a proper response from the vuc sector before we start. That is why we are going to put an end to one agreement before we start the next. It is actually because I am incredibly pleased with the principle that Mr. Jens Roh said that an elephant should be eaten in smaller bites. That is to say, instead of making the agreement on everything it tends to be incredibly long, because everything is only finished in incredibly long time, then I'd rather say that we end the one if we can, and then we start the next. If those negotiations take a long time, it will be parallel. So we shall see that in relation to the willingness to negotiate, or whatever to say, with everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101902	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. We are going to start the rapporteur's round, and first it is Mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325101916	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Left for the resolution on this extremely important area. Of course, I also agree with the Minister's statement that far too little is being said about this. In other words, we are debating too little about how important it is for the people it is about, but also for our social development, and that is probably what lies in the fact that the Left is now tabling a motion for a resolution to put this on the agenda. It is clear that adult, continuing training is extremely important for all target groups. After all, there are some who have gone to school for a relatively long time, received a long education, but who still need new skills along the way. There are also some who have drawn very, very little on the education account at the beginning of their lives and who, in my view, are extra important to give, perhaps, skills as skilled later in life, but perhaps also just the skills that need to get involved; read a bedtime story for their kids or for their grandchildren. And in this way there are both personal and labour market gains in the adult and continuing education system. It is clear that some things will change very quickly. These could be new requirements in the green transition, which means that we need to be able to take action fairly quickly. Some things are unfortunately long-term problems, for example. This is about some groups getting out of our school system without getting the basic skills. One might say that the Minister also mentioned the Reform Commission that if it succeeds in ensuring that fewer people fall off the training car and that everyone joins, then it is a long-term success, if any. And until it starts to break through, we must of course have a system that is always available, whether it is for people who have struggled with dyslexia or other things in order to obtain basic skills at the level of graduation, or for example for people who have struggled with dyslexia or other things in order to obtain basic skills at the level of graduation. to receive courses as skilled in order to move from unskilled to skilled. That is one of the reasons for what the Minister said at the end, and as several rapporteurs have also said about the vuc sector, that is that it is in need right now, but it is extremely important that it exists, even in those times when there are not so many pupils on the school benches, because there are very many who are in work. But it has to be found so that it is clear when the business cycle is reversed. That is also why, for example, we have made our permanent boost to the unskilled who choose to become skilled, in some of the areas where we lack labour and where, as part of our agreements here, we have raised the daily allowance rate that can be obtained so that you can get 110 per cent if you are taking a skilled training course. So all in all, I think that in reality there are things where we have taken steps. However, there are certainly also things which I agree with the rapporteur of the Left in relation to the question put to the Minister where there are burning platforms, for example. in the vuc area, where we have to discuss it very soon, and perhaps that is the conclusion here too. I share the Minister's view that we have enough analyses. We know what the problem is, and what we are going to do is to spend this spring on both what we are much more directly involved in it could be the discussion about vuc but, of course, what we are a little less directly involved in, namely the trialogue negotiations that we must, of course, take care not to get in the way of, but which are nevertheless extremely important in the field of adult and further education. So we do not support the resolution, but we do support all the intentions to put it on the agenda here and also to take some decisions in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325102255	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325102320	Thank you. The motion for a resolution calls for an analysis and subsequent reform of the overall system of adult and continuing training. The intention of the motion for a resolution is good, and in the SF we agree that there is room for improvements to the existing system. It is an incalculable and complex system, and I think many of the users will agree with that. More education and qualification in the existing and future areas of shortages are absolutely necessary, even at times when our society is doing well. And with changing economic conditions that arise, the whole industry disappears and changes, and thus also tasks for both skilled and unskilled. All types of education and training are a process that continues and which today also demands of us. That is why we are actually pleased with the proposal to think green transition into the system. It has long been SF's wish that a green forecasting tool be created which the job centres can use as a more modern tool when it comes to providing upskills for the unemployed in the areas that will in future lack labour in the context of the green transition. But we are critical of an analysis which anticipates the conclusions in advance, and I also have reservations about the merger of vuc and amu. A merger would potentially contribute to increased centralisation, so we're not sure this is the right solution. I am also a little curious about how the proposers intend to bring the recommendations of the Reform Commission and the trialogue negotiations into the resolution. We are also a little puzzled about the timing, as we are waiting for the Reform Commission's recommendations on improving the system, because the recommendations should be on the right track this spring. So there are a number of elements I imagine we can discuss in committee and we are also open to drawing up a report on the motion for a resolution if necessary. With these comments, we look forward to further work on the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325102559	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Kenneth Mikkelsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325102602	Thank you. I have just one question for the rapporteur. I simply need to clarify that. Because I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325102626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325102627	Thank you. One of the things we are concerned about is, if you put it in certain directions in advance, on the basis of what the economic situation has looked like right now. What we want is for us to wait for the work we will soon be getting from the Reform Commission, because it is also going further into the deeper layers so that we not only take it from a present picture, but that it also depends on something over a little longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325102655	Kenneth Mikkelsen? No. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur very much and move on to Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325102721	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Left for tabling a motion for a resolution on this matter. As I said before, I think it is extremely important that we get started on finding solutions. This is really needed in the situation we are in now, and I fully agree with the Left on the two main needs we see. One is to raise more unskilled people, as if I were addressing myself before, and then the other is about the green transition. It is the two needs that make it particularly urgent. Then there is a third need that comes to. We know that several of these institutions are now in a state of closure, so something really needs to be done. That is why I believe that what we need now is not so much a new analysis work, but more that we are getting some negotiations started. I also think it makes sense, of course, to see what comes out of the next sub-report coming from the Reform Commission. We may be able to wait for that, but then we may not be able to wait much longer. That is why, as I said, I do not think that what is needed is to look at it all over again. What is important to us in the Radical Left is that we get a financial bail-out to the institutions. I actually hear a commitment from the government. However, I would like to say that, frankly, I am actually a little confused, but it may be that I will have the opportunity to know later what the exact order of the negotiations is. We are now in the process of negotiations on institutional legislation, and I see them as well that we may well be able to conclude before that date. Then there are also some negotiations on new provision of youth education, and here's my point: before we start creating something new, we need to save the existing training, which is at the closure point. That is why it is important for us to find a solution to this very soon, and I am delighted that the Left too will help to push for it, and of course also that the government has made an immediate commitment here. And as I understood, the government has even promised not only that we should start negotiations but also conclude them before the summer break. The latter is, of course, an important detail in this context. So I would like to thank the Left for an important resolution in which we share the intentions. I do not think it will be necessary for us, so to say, to vote in favour of it, and if we should have done so, we should in fact have changed it, because there are some things that we do not entirely agree with, in relation to whether or not there is a need for an analysis. But we fully support the intention in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325103021	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. So we move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325103033	First of all, thank you to the Left for putting the need for initiatives in the field of adult and continuing education on the agenda. We in the Enhedslisten fully agree that there is a need to put a much stronger focus on the area both in relation to the many adults who have a huge need to strengthen their general and business-oriented competences, in relation to the lack of skilled labour in many sectors, and in relation to the whole green transition of our society, as the proposers also point out. There are several groups that we need to think about in this context. There are thousands of young people who leave the education system every year without having received a qualification, and there are many who find that the education they took yesterday is out of date tomorrow. It poses serious problems for some to gain a foothold in the labour market and for others to keep in touch with the labour market. Therefore, it is extremely important that we improve the possibilities for acquiring skilled skills through adult education and ensuring both an effective and flexible continuing training system. I think that it should actually be a matter of course for every company in this country, private and public, to work systematically with adult and continuing training for employees, and not only so, I would like to stress, in relation to the immediate vocational competences, but also to a great extent with regard to general adult education, so that the education vision we have is not just about getting a place in the labour market, but has a much broader purpose than that. We therefore agree that more action is needed in this area. We are certainly not opposed to an overall initiative in terms of lifting the entire veu area, but we do, I would stress, see no immediate perspective in combining the vuc system and labour market training. We also believe, and I think all the rapporteurs have mentioned this before me, that action is needed without obtaining further studies and analyses. Both our adult education centres and the whole area of labour market education are under massive economic pressure. We know that there is considerable economic pressure on the vuc sector, activity has fallen sharply, and if you look at the figures for the last year, you can see that no less than 1 in 10 teachers in the vuc system have been terminated. The sector has also pointed out that there is every reason to be concerned that if we do not act, the third of the vuc sections where there are less than 100 year-olds can also be very seriously threatened with their existence, and it is absolutely essential that we prevent it. About the same it looks like in the amu area. There, when we look at the last ten years, we have seen nothing less than a halving of the total number of students, and we know that in departments which run labour market training courses, they are under pressure, but perhaps in the amu centres, which have it as their only company, they are extremely pressured and, in fact, solutions are urgently needed in this area. So, in relation to the proposal, we do not disagree with the idea that there should be an overall increase in the whole area. We see no point in talking about merging the general adult education sector and the amu sector; we do not think that is the right direction. On the other hand, we believe that there is reason to act both in the vuc and in the amu area without further analysis. So I would also like to ask, because that could be a point for the proposer: is there any contradiction between the long-term and the short-term? Of course, there isn't. That is why we are very much in favour of drawing up a report in which we point both to the long-term perspective, which is crucial, so that what we are doing is not too random and fragmentary, and I would also like to point to very concrete initiatives, particularly in relation to the vuc and amu area. I heard the Minister say that the Minister is at least as busy as the rest of us; that is how I had to understand it. I hope that it will keep water in the process of negotiations, but I think that there is a basis for formulating a common view across the parties that this is an area that is generally very important. We must have some long-term planning, but we must also hurry to act where this is most worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325103554	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Gitte Willumsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325103611	Thank you to the Left for tabling motion for a resolution B 75, which deals with the analysis and reform of the overall continuing training system. In Denmark, it is possible to train your entire life. That is the way it should be in the future. Right now, both vuc and amu have great challenges, as the search for their offer is significantly reduced due to the high work rate we are seeing right now. If we do not reach out a hand, it is very likely that some offers will have to close, as their economy is beginning to be strongly challenged. Both vuc and amu are important institutions. They help people in their working lives, often when something is difficult • if you have lost your job and want to try something new, if you can no longer tolerate the flour dust in the bakery, if you can no longer cope with the shakes from the compressed air drill, if you can no longer crawl around the wardrobe and help kindergarten children in the flight suit, in short when you are facing a career change. We have a wish that this should also be possible in the future. So when the Left suggests that we should do an analysis and call round tables with the educational actors, we see it as a very good idea. What this is all about is that we need to safeguard our continuing training system for the future. We know that the future requires new competences in the job market, and we need to be able to put up with that. It can be the green transition, new IT skills or perhaps also robotic technology. That is why the Conservative People's Party welcomes the fact that we are launching an analysis work and acting so that we also have a continuing training system in the future. It has to be geared by the time we look into. And then I heard earlier in the Minister's speech that there should be negotiations shortly, this spring, and we look forward to that, because we think it is urgent. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325103818	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325103837	Thank you, President. In the Danish People's Party we fully agree with the need to look at the continuing training system, so thank you to the Left for having tabled the motion for a resolution. This is, of course, because in the changing world we are part of, there is an increasing need to ensure increased competences for everyone in the labour market and, in particular, competences for those who do not have so much education in advance. As everyone knows, we have low unemployment at the moment, which means that everyone has good opportunities to get a job, even completely unskilled, and that is fantastic, but when the business cycle turns and with war in Europe, it is not to predict what is happening, and then it is to be expected that some or many unskilled people or those with little education will lose their jobs. And at that time, we need an effective continuing training system to give the boost in education that enables us to get the right skills to get back into the labour market quickly. Part of the analysis and discussion should also be about how it can be ensured that unskilled people in jobs also have the opportunity to have increased formal competences • something that Enhedslisten has been advocating for many years so that it is easier to maintain the job, even when the business cycle is changing. It's so important. The system we have today, where among other things. The amu system is guided by what the parties can agree on, helps to make the system rigid on occasion, and the lack of flexibility reduces the company's desire and ability to use the systems in the context of a skills increase for employees. On the one hand, it can of course be said that it is very good if companies themselves find and pay for the training their employees need, but the idea of amu that it should be formal competences that are useful across companies is sensible. In relation to supply, demand is also fluctuating. It is a painful child, and with the creation of the preparatory basic education we have politically moved part of the pupils away from vuc with open eyes, and we in the Danish People's Party think this was the right thing to do, and we stand by it, but it also poses challenges for vuc, especially in a situation where unemployment is very low and therefore generally has fewer pupils seeking. Therefore, the Danish People's Party can only support the need to have a process and dialogue with all parties on how to ensure a continuing training system that is actually present throughout the country. It is important that it is not too far to the place of education if we are to succeed in getting this group, which often already has a bad experience sitting on the school bench, to take an education. The analysis is needed. The dialogue and flexibility will make everyone create a good solution, and we in the Danish People's Party hope that we can agree on this across the Chamber, and if the government does not support the proposal as it stands, and I hear a little bit the government is not quite, we will call for agreement on a report. What is crucial is that we get started and that the government will assume its responsibility for success. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325104231	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we are now moving on to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325104252	It's a pleasure to come to the platform after the last speaker, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party, who has very, very well explained the whole area and also the potential pitfalls, but also the places where we need to be aware that we can upgrade and which way we should choose. So I don't really want to go into that much. In New Citizens, we are also very concerned that we have a flexible education system throughout our lives, because I do not think there are any people, whether you are unskilled or you are skilled or you have another education which today remains in the same job throughout your life. It was the kind of thing my parents did, they stayed in the same job all their lives, but that's not what we see today. So in addition to this area, it is of course important that we also ensure that we can develop throughout our lives in all areas. We think it makes sense to look at the area, to see if there is anything that needs to be added together, how we create the best structure, so that it is best possible. Then let it be the words from here. We support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325104402	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we will move on to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Kenneth Mikkelsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325104409	Thank you for that, President. Let me start with a personal experience. 4-5 years ago, I was invited to a major company in the Herning area. They had screened their employees. The directors of the company had taken the lead and had also found that there were shortcomings, if I may call it that, in some of the general competences, and there was a single director with dyslexia. Courses of different kinds were established at the company, and what I saw was invited to do was the evaluation of the course that the employees had been through. 4-5 years later, i.e. today, I can feel that I get goose bumps on my arms thinking back on that experience. For what I was met by were employees who sat with tears in their eyes and told me that for the first time they could now start helping their children to do their homework. I was met by a foreman who, in a shocking voice, told me that for 22 years, every time a recommendation was made to a colleague, he had to come up with an excuse to get someone else to write this recommendation. And I start with that story because that is exactly what education and also this type of education that we are talking about today can do. It has a huge impact, it has a huge impact on people, and in the history I have just referred to, it is also really, really important for our companies. So it was a strong experience that I myself had, and perhaps also one of the reasons why I very much share the Minister's views on the whole area of continuing training and have a burning desire that we actually also, also politically, talk more about it. The Left has tabled this motion for a resolution which requires the government to carry out a fundamental analysis and then a reform of the overall continuing training system, including looking at the advantages and disadvantages of combining the amu and vuc systems. And let me just make it clear that it's done, based on the fact that there are no sacred cows for the Left in this. I note, and thank you for that, that all the rapporteurs have recognised that the motion for a resolution has been tabled here, and I also sense support for action, perhaps not so much support for the analysis itself, and we must then find out how we deal with it here afterwards. I also note, particularly from the Minister's speech, that there is a great deal of data, and the question is how to get this data and data together as best we can and get it presented to Parliament's parties. Perhaps that is the direction in which we should look at what we describe as the analysis. But let me make it clear once again that with the resolution here we in the Left do not want to lay down a certain track in any way. On the contrary, we want to involve a broad group of stakeholders. It could be the Education Association, the Danish HF & VUC and the Amu centres. Many have already invited in, and let us hold them to the table. With the reform, the Left wants vuc and amu education to remain accessible to as many people as possible. This applies geographically, but it also applies in relation to the needs of enterprises in relation to the green transition and the needs of enterprises in terms of skilled labour. After all, in the last few years, the Vuc and Amu programmes have been given additional funds, from year to year, and yet half of the 24 Vuc institutions which are drawing up their own accounts had a deficit in 2021. It is not sustainable, and that is why we in the Left are also talking about the burning platform. Of course, there are reasons for this. The recession has been mentioned several times and years ago we moved part of the student base from the vuc centres to the Fgu centres, so I shall not go into that any more. But our intention with this is for us to find more lasting solutions so that we do not throw bailouts to these institutions year after year. It is in a situation like the one we are in now, in a boom, that we should look at the future structure of adult and further training, and for the Left there is no doubt that reforms are needed. We in the Left have been contacted by a great many actors. Everyone points out the need for action now. Many people have also noticed today's motion for a resolution and have reached us in this regard, and I am also thinking, as the Minister has already confirmed, that the Minister is also being contacted and has a number of similar representations like those we have received in the Left. In Denmark, we lack skilled labour, especially in the field of subjects intended to contribute to the green transition. It is important that, in particular, the short-skilled are trained, and here vuc and other adult and labour market-oriented education play a key role. As I started by saying in my introduction, education is a central road to ensuring employment, productivity and prosperity, but also quality of life for the individual. That's why we're calling on the government to carry out this analysis. Let us find out how to do this in practical terms and then start a reform. And I note that the Minister has virtually sent out the summons. In any case, negotiations will be convened and, hopefully, they will be concluded before the summer recess. It is action that has to take on board a number of the challenges that are currently being faced in the overall continuing training system. I welcome Parliament's support for the motion for a resolution. I think we owe this to the sector, to the employees and to the companies. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325105100	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. The next item is a question, but we have just some technical things to do. We'll take a short break in two minutes while we do the technical work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325105356	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 29 March. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance, for the reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325105419	There was some confusion as to whether it was the Minister who had to go first. I think it was such a vision of the future. Well, leave it alone. We are in an extraordinary situation right now in Europe, where the regime of Putin's gangster is creating horror and terror in Ukraine, but unfortunately it is not the case that all other problems disappear for that reason. And there is one particular problem that I think is becoming more and more important, and that is the tendency of young people to be more miserable than before. And one can say that it is so little the result of a natural experiment that we are about to see: how have the children born in this millennium in a society where there is total liberation, total well-being and total digitisation? It is, of course, somewhere a natural experiment that we are beginning to see the results of. There are some signs that are a little ominous. According to a report from the Danish Council for Prevention from 2021, 16 per cent of the population in the EU are women. of children under 10 years of age with poor mental health, and according to the Danish Health • National Health Profile 2021 • It also looks bad, so to speak, for the age group between 16 and 25 when it comes to their own experience of mental health. It's 21 percent. of the young men and 34 per cent. of the young women who report poor mental health. It is more than a doubling over the last 11 years, so it is not just something that is caused by the corona crisis, i.e. a doubling of the number of young people who have poor mental health. I also believe that things have been made worse by the fact that people have been locked up for a few years during the corona crisis, but the trend was therefore already there in the past. The trend is very clear also in relation to such more serious disorders as stress, anxiety and depression: there is a certain increase for young men and there is a marked increase for young women. My business today is not really such to have to pity young people or paint the problem too big or to claim that young people are weak. I believe basically, whether you are young or old, that we can all choose to strive to be strong, but still experience that the foundations and frameworks fall together. After all, it is the government of the Minister for Children and Education that we have put together today, and I want to hear how the government feels about it. I agree that this is not a simple challenge, and I also agree that we can not just solve these things with a political fingertips, but I hope that we can perhaps go a little deeper into understanding what the root of the nettle is, so to speak, and hopefully also move a little further from the talk that sometimes fills the public debate that it was all simply due to national tests and characters and the like. I hope we can move on from that and I look forward to a good discussion today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325105705	Thank you, sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Now we move on to the answer, and that is the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325105714	Thanks for that, and I wish it was so easy that you could just solve it with a fingertips. I actually think we all would love to do that. I think this is an extremely important issue, and it is moving across various ministerial areas, and I see it in the Ministry of Children and Education as one of the core tasks of dealing with the trend that we see across the Western world. So thank you very much for putting this debate on the agenda in the Assembly today. Of course, we see from the government's side with incredibly great seriousness the growing distrust among children, not just in Denmark, but throughout the Western world. Of course, this harms the good life of children, and in some cases it also leads to adulthood, and children in disarray are challenged both in relation to their schooling and learning, but also in relation to friendships and leisure life. And, of course, it is considerably easier to land safely and safely, even in adulthood, if you have not been knocked off course completely while you have been a child. I am impressed by the fact that the national health profile shows that 34.4%. This is one of the figures that the rapporteur mentioned here, which is the lowest score on the mental health scale, for women between the ages of 16 and 24 years. Of course, as the rapporteur also said, we must take into account the fact that the study has been carried out during the decommissioning process, and there I think there are several of us who can sign that it may not have been the most enjoyable period of your life, and that, of course, should be included. Nevertheless, I also believe that we should take into account that it has increased from 18.6 in 2010 to this level in 2021 and that, regardless of decommissioning, it is a major increase. At the same time, the latest school children's survey from 2018 shows that the proportion of 15-year-old boys with high life satisfaction has decreased by 11 percentage points from 2002 to 2018 and that 40%. of the 15-year-olds indicate that they are sad at least once a week, and that is all in all some really sad numbers. Conversely, in the annual and compulsory well-being surveys in primary and secondary education there has been a stable high level of well-being in recent years, and it is of course gratifying that the well-being of the education system is at a stable high level. But I am surprised that the well-being studies are so different, and that also means that this is one of the things that we need to analyse together, and that we are also looking into from the ministry. One of the key reasons for the difference is that the well-being measurements measure school satisfaction, i.e. how children and young people thrive in their school life as pupils in a school. This is what these studies focus on, where other well-being studies measure the well-being of pupils in a broader sense, i.e. also look more closely at the well-being of children and young people at home and at leisure and in relation to physical and mental health at all. This means that as a child you can come from a burdened home with absent parents, full parents or something similar to violent parents, and thus generally have a low well-being, but vice versa you can see the school as the free space and where you get air, and you can actually have a high school service and therefore can live out completely differently in those studies. It has a high priority for the government both to analyze deeper into this, but that we will of course also increase the well-being of children and young people in general. It is a social problem and not just in Denmark, and we should bear that in mind, because in relation to what the tools are and how we analyze it, you have to see it across the Western world where this is happening. I also think it calls for exactly what the rapporteur says, so we need to look at several different solutions, because there is not one way to solve these problems. And the government has proposed, as part of the health reform, that a broad partnership for well-being and movement and healthy communities be created under the heading of Generation Active, and that is simply because we do not see it as being that these problems alone are individual, but that it is probably more about communities, and we need sports associations, business, organisations, municipalities, schools all the places where communities can be built, also to strengthen the network around the individual. Then we have started work on a 10-year plan for psychiatry, and the Danish Health Authority has published a technical paper in which children and young people also have a very prominent role, and the Ministry of Children and Education has also started internal work to expand national well-being measurements at school. The current measurements are supplemented by new questions that also look at the overall well-being of the students. Then there is another internal work where a new indicator is developed which can identify the proportion of pupils at risk of distrust at school. But if we compare the children in Denmark with those in the rest of the world, we see that Danish children are around or slightly below the international average for general life satisfaction, while a PISA study from 2018 shows that 15-year-old Danish students are more often happy or lively or in a good mood than the majority in other countries, just as the school children study from 2018 shows that fewer students in Denmark than in most other countries often feel nervous. So, compared to other countries, the different aspects of well-being for Denmark are just around the average or slightly over to some parts of it and slightly underneath some others, and I think that this is about Denmark, despite the trend towards increasing distrust, still being able to give children and young people a safe and safe upbringing, but there are things we can, so to say, still do, and we must take this very seriously. If we look at the trend in the Western world, we have to say that when something moves across the Western world, it is also important to look at what it is and the rapporteur mentioned some of it. There is digitalisation, and I would also like to mention the focus on the individual, and I would also like to mention that the supertheorisation that I perceive is happening from the school, that the duties have diminished and that children are being told that the possibilities are endless are some of the things we need to look at. Because in many ways it has never been better to be a child than in the Western world and in Denmark in these years. There is security, there is prosperity, there is education at quite different levels than there was, if we reverse the time 50 years ago, and it is now harder to predict where you end up, based on where you start, and there has been a lot of movement in the right direction. So why does the misfortune increase? I simply believe that the reflections have not always been able to keep up with the great progress and that we may have lost something absolutely essential for a person who is being shaped: a training in what the standards are, and then the breadth of a foundation of education that I believe we have lost, and thus we have also lost something incredibly important: a culture of authority, that is to say, to get a child from being an adult. And it therefore requires a broad foundation of education that you can very many different things, that you have skills in many different areas and therefore do not feel addicted. For that is where the authority lies, and that means that, as an adult, one becomes an authoritative person who can make decisions for himself. It takes you to have a broad foundation to stand on. So education isn't just about being able to read and count, it's not just about theoretical skills, but it's also about becoming whole people with everything it includes. I have sometimes said, when we have spoken in a slightly more closed room, that in the old days we talked about children who came from a home with piano. It was such a picture that one came from the upper middle class or upper class, and that is certainly another way of seeing formation than we do today. For that means that one has put in as one of the virtues that have been in the top layers of a society, that one should be able to do something creative, namely play the piano, that is to say that one has had to speak a language other than that which is theoretical. If you look at what was for formation elements in such a classical formation, they consisted of immensely many things, and straight cross stitches I think I could have missed myself. But if we take the whole palette of virtues you have been able to, then you have had a lot of skills, and it has been very gender-separated then, but together a woman and a man have actually been able to run a common home. Then maybe we would do away with some gender patterns, but in it all the virtues are so smoked, both the creative and the practical and all the other things that were otherwise part of a classical formation. I think that creates under-age citizens, which I think creates a huge amount of uncertainty; that means that, in the course of your daily life, you are very dependent on other people rather than being able to handle things yourself. Then I would like to say that this is the one element that I think is crucial when we tackle this, and it is also a trend that goes across globally. Then for three decades we have taught children and young people that they are educating for their own sake and that the opportunities are endless. This is simply nonsense, that is to say, both one and the other. Why on earth should school systems have been introduced before democracy was introduced if they were trained for their own sake? In other words, after the introduction of democracy, I can understand it because one can depend on having the votes and everything else, but it is simply not meaningful to talk about training for one's own sake. We're educating for each other's sakes. We are educating ourselves both for our own sake and for the sake of our neighbors and for the sake of our neighbors and for the sake of all sorts of others. We are educating ourselves for each other's sakes, and that is because we as people work divides, and that is why we need people on all shelves. There is no point in everyone becoming nuclear physicists or everyone becoming carpenters, because we need both. So it is just to say that telling young people that they are educating themselves for their own sake and that the possibilities are endless, means that they must ensure that they do not close many doors but have to open as many doors as possible. That means, of course, that the only one who wins in that is the one who has received the highest education with the highest grade. This is what we get out of the individual education perspective. It puts enormous pressure on young people. And that is simply nonsense, because we do not really need everyone to get the best education with the highest grade or possibly the one with the highest grade, but certainly not the fact that everyone gets what you see in society as the highest education. We need people on all shelves, and that means that we need an incredibly wide variety in terms of what kind of education people are taking. Then they can be really good at the education they take, and they can take a lot of education, but that's a different perspective, also on oneself. Do you feel useful? Can you as a citizen see what that place is in a society? Do you feel like you're needed? At least not with that individual education view. But with the broad view of education, which is what our society is really about, that is to say that we are training for ourselves and for each other, one will have a feeling that whatever education one takes, we need to make an effort, but we also need the shelf on which one lands, regardless of whether one takes one or the other education. And that means you can see what part of the whole and community you are. Nobody can do anything, but everyone can do something. And that, in my opinion, must be the foundation of the way we look at education, and it should be the guiding force for everything we do in our education system. So there are a lot of ways to good life, and we are really bad at pointing them out when we have that very individualised education vision that has been stuck especially over the 90s and 00s. So it is the broad concept of education, the culture of authority, to get away from the academic school, to get a look at it here with why we are educating ourselves, and to tell the young people the right story, namely that we are educating ourselves both for ourselves and for all the others and not just for ourselves. Then the rapporteurs also just mentioned it with grades and national tests, that is to say that this should be the reason. There I simply have it almost the other way around. Well, I think as a child, knowing what kind of walls there are in that society is really good for you, so you can bump up against the walls. And if we don't show the kids where those walls are, you're gonna be such a deserted island floating around, and I understand that's pretty distressing. I haven't been the world champion of standards when I was young, I can reveal to those who didn't know it already. But I think it is important, even for myself, to have learned the standards. Whether you like the standards or don't like the standards if you don't know them, you don't know what kind of society you're part of and you become a free-flowing desert island. And it's no good at all. Even if you want to rebel against some standards that I would like to have liked as a young person, it requires you to know what the standards are. Otherwise, you don't even know what to rebel against. This means that even one part of the youth, whether you like the standards or not, needs to know what they are to know what you are a part of. And it also gives those walls of security around you, which allows you to figure out how to navigate in the society and community in which you form part. That is to say, there is that no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. Sometimes the kids don't even know if they're discussing things going on in the United States, or they're discussing things going on in Denmark, because it's all taken down from TikTok. So learning how to navigate in this world thinks I'm really important. So back to grades: Character and test should of course not be in a way, so it flows all over the school system, but I think that the level we have now contributes to the children getting some walls to play up. They know where they are in relation to the world, they know what we expect of them, and they know what we expect of them later in life. That is why I do not think that grades and well-being are at all opposites to each other, actually quite the opposite. For this gives the students a pointer for their professional development, which is understandable, instead of some talk that you may not understand. Without grades and evaluation, I simply believe that we are leaving young people in a vacuum where they are uncertain about how they are part of the world and what they can do to influence their world. So I'm very concerned about the idea of character-free schools. I have said this very clearly in some of the debates we have had on it. That does not mean that we do not have any problems with the scale of character we now have. Well, it's got all sorts of problems we need to fix. There is far too far between the leaps, which means that one cannot feel one's professional progression. If you are very fond of grades, you are happy with them precisely because you can feel what your relationship with the world is. Then there is no point in the jumps being so big that you have to move so much that you never reach a new grade. So there are all kinds of problems in it. Last but not least, I got to say all kinds of things. I have brought a complete catalogue of the things we have dealt with, which is about well-being, even if it is braided into all the other things, but I do not have time to do so. But it is just to say that this is something that in every way possible is also in the hands of all the rapporteurs, and that is why it is reflected in an incredibly large number of agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325111246	Thank you, Minister. Now there is the possibility of a brief comment from the rapporteurs who would like it. And first, sir. Alex Vanopslagh, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325111301	Thank you. And thank you for a reflected and gifted speech. That is not all I agree with, but I think that many wise things have been said, especially in relation to grades, so that if you remove them, the framework will become even more fluid and children's life will become more stressful. I also very much agree with this that skills are indeed the prerequisite for authority and that much of this is about the culture of authority, including among teachers. So, teachers have lost authority and authority, perhaps for educational reasons rather than political, but there is also a loss there. I also agree with the speech that you can become whatever you want, just pick something you want. Yeah, you can both fail if you don't stay exactly what you want, but you can also fail if you end up finding something, but you don't burn a hundred percent for theoretically there can be something else. Now the speaking time has already passed. What I want to ask the Minister is: does the Minister think that the primary school is satisfactory in terms of skills today, but also in terms of education? Because there is something about the standards that was mentioned. If you have a no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. Is the Minister satisfied with the primary school today in these areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325111400	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325111404	No. I think that is the clearest answer you can give to that question. And that is why, on behalf of the government, I have also initiated a process in which we need to get in touch precisely with the foundation of education which the primary school is providing today and which I certainly do not think is broad enough. Moreover, the teaching profession has been saying this for quite a long time, so it could be that we should start listening. So I'd say in relation to the grade thing and it's just to get an extra point in it that until 1975 the kids in school got grades, a lot of places from second grade and up and some places in all the primary school classes, and then you abolished it so that it was a municipal decision after that. So, in relation to the problems of well-being, if you look at it as such a major structural change, then what has happened to the school is that the grades have disappeared more and more out of school, while the distrust has gained more and more. That is what structural movements are. It is not the case that the grades are more in primary school today than in previous years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325111457	Then it's Mette Thiesen, New Citizen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325111501	Thank you so much. After all, it is a fantastic debate to take up and a crazy important debate. After all, I am a schoolteacher myself, and I have tired the rapporteurs on several occasions, and I am probably one of them. I have also talked to the Minister about this in other contexts too, who believe that tranquillity, cleanliness and regularity are good. It is good that children and young people know what the framework is, because there are no people who can endure not knowing where the framework is, because then you will constantly try to find them and that gives insecurity. I kind of agree with this with the grades. What is also just important when you talk about character is that teachers should have the opportunity to sit down and talk to the students about why they have got exactly the character and how they can do it even better if they want to, so you get that thing with. At any rate, what I am experiencing in primary school right now is that you do not have time for the closeness and care that you had in the past to a greater extent. So I would like to ask a little about the reform of primary school: does the Minister not think that the reform of primary school has destroyed really, very much and actually means that time is being taken away from some of what is also a core task for a school teacher, namely to take care of the well-being of children?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325111610	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325111615	I have abandoned the idea of saying whether we are in favour or against the reform. Some of it has worked, and it is very good that we, for example, should do so. has had more movement into school than was before the reform. It also appears in a better well-being and better professional results, especially for those children who have difficulty in going to school. After all, it is the reform of primary schools that has introduced it. So there are parts of what I think is really good. But that does not change the fact that, in a way, I agree that the reform of some stretches has not lived up to what was the purpose of it and that, on some stretches, there are things that were better dealt with before the reform. This is among other things. That is why we have taken the initiative to create the major processes of involvement. I think that what was almost the worst of the reform was the lock-out that followed, which was not, of course, about the reform, but was a conflict about working hours. I would say, and that goes back to what Mr. Alex Vanopslagh said that teachers have lost authority, that there is nothing to say about that, because if you run the teaching profession over, that is what happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325111721	Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325111725	Thank you for your speech, and thank you for addressing this issue with the fact that we have had a very individualised education view. I would like to ask a few questions about this, because the Minister is now highlighting this point with regard to the relationship between grades and how young people feel. One could also look at the connection between how much the community and the common stuff fills and how they feel. It's all about camp schools, school gardens, musicals, everything the students share. I believe that some of what has got worse is that we have set targets and set common goals, which means that the teaching will be about the individual student and that many students will sit alone in front of a screen and work with their own goals, where things were previously more common at school. So what is actually the consequence of what the Minister says about the individual education view, about how we set a framework for the subjects, and about the importance of the common goals, which are today very specifically targeted at the individual child?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325111821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325111824	It is quite relevant to talk about common goals, both in relation to the purpose they have and the framework they form for teaching. After all, it is no secret that I do not think that the inventing of just over 3 000 goals for primary school is the wisest thing ever done. I do not think this is an appropriate way of working for anything to make children reflect and critical and teach them standards from which they can then relate to the world. That is why we are discussing together at the moment about school how we are going to change these things. The National Association of Municipalities, together with the Danish Teacher Association and the School Leader Association, has, in my opinion, made a very good offer in the presentation they gave for both Together about the school and the settlement circle recently. Then I would like to say something about the individual education perspective. I do not think that the common objective is enough. I believe that this is one of the steps to be taken, but I believe that much more is needed. For some of this is simply also about a change of culture in how we as parents talk to our children about why they should train themselves, according to what Mr. Alex Vanopslagh said just now that if you don't do what you want, you lose.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325111934	Then it's Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325111937	Thank you for that and thank you for the many nuances that were in it. There are no easy answers. I would add that I also believe that education is of value in itself. The whole process of an education has a value in itself, and being in a learning process can actually be in quite a contradiction with the product that then has to come out of it eventually when we talk about grades or a test where you have to live up to some things at a given time. That's where you gotta be in top shape. That means for a large number of students that they will fall out, because they cannot live up to that particular part. I could hear that the Minister is pleased with the part of the primary school which is about tests and grades, but we just have a large group, an excessive group of children and young people who fall out and who do not get through. We're not getting any better at dealing with it. In fact, we see that more and more people are developing diagnoses through the education system. Now I will not draw any quick conclusions from this, but we just have to note that many of the students are unable to meet those requirements. So can the Minister see that there is something conflicting between making a fight with the academic school and then sticking to some of these demands for grades and tests?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325112046	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325112049	In my opinion, there is no connection between giving character and being theoretical. Well, you shouldn't have been to Skills where you compete in craftsmanship to find out that you can easily give grades for how good people are to, for example. to put a floor in a bathroom. For me, characterization is a question of setting up a framework for what we expect. The challenge right now is that we only expect something in what is primarily academic or theoretical, and I simply do not think that makes sense. This also means that some of those who will subsequently have to deal with something academic, then do not have all the formation that lies in coming from a home with piano. One should have gotten the education at school that one can draw; that one can play the piano; that one can find out how to control one's own economy; that one knows what is expected of one's labour market; that one can find out how to use a hammer; that one can put up a lamp; that one knows how to vent radiators during the autumn • so all the things that all people have to deal with. So for the academics it is a problem that you lack all the education and authority that lies in it, but those who are primarily good at practical things never find out whether they actually can do anything, and I think that is a major problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325112156	Thank you. Stén Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325112205	Thank you and thank the Minister for a good speech, a good and reflected speech. And I just want you to know that I think it is extremely inspiring and instructive that we have these debates, where we also go into depth with something as important as well-being, which is, of course, one of the most important things. Perhaps I will not surprisingly address the issue of movement and the partnership that the Minister is talking about in connection with the new health reform, about movement. We know that if children move more in the 0-6th class, they get a better language, they thrive better, and they also get a culture that makes them move when they get a little older and grow up. So it's really just to give my mind that we remember to get the whole vintage with, from their 0th grade, until they're 25 when it's about movement and what to do. Because it's challenged in kindergarten, and that's what we've been talking about in school for many years, and so is when they go to youth education. So it was just a brief reflection on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325112259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325112302	We are incredibly agreed on everything that is about movement, and I am glad that we feel like a common hoe-horse. I believe that movement means • and we can also look at the research that has been carried out very much for both well-being and professionalism. And there is a major problem, particularly in our education, and there are various initiatives that we have been through on other occasions. Some of this, however, is also about professional distress and drug congestion, as they call it in schooling, and there we are, in fact, back to Mrs Lotte Rod's comment about this with the many common goals, that is to say, both those that are mandatory and those that are not, are enormously governing the teaching. And that means that instead of the teachers having the opportunity to look at the children and the students and see what is really needed in the 8th grade right now in this hour, they have an experience of having to whip through some material because they have some goals. And since we know that movement means a great deal to learning, it is quite counterproductive that instead of doing what is needed, namely moving, so that learning is lifted, I apologize for saying it like that, kicking the kids through some material, because you have to tack towards achieving those common goals. This is not a good way to approach it in terms of making movement fill something.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325112415	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Gitte Willumsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325112418	Thank you for that, and thank you for the good reflections. Like Mrs Mette Thiesen, I am burdened with being a teacher and have had my time in the Danish primary school for 27 years. As far as I am concerned, distrust often results in failure, i.e. failure in the professional disciplines at school. And one of the disciplines that fills a lot is something about reading, and it interferes with all subjects. Has the Minister given any thought as to how to make reading something that fills something more? We are discussing this in connection with teacher training, and I know that is under another minister. In the previous debate in the Chamber, Mr. Kenneth Mikkelsen about some who had been on amu courses and had learned to read and that it gave so much well-being to them in their family. I think this applies more broadly and if you do not succeed in reading, you will not succeed in a school and in a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325112523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325112525	Thank you so much for that point. I have dyslexia as one of my biggest stick horses and that is to say, I have decided once a year during the time I get to be a minister to come up with a new package in the field of dyslexia. It comes in October every year. This is in fact one of the areas where during this reign we have really managed to move the fence posts. When we talk about well-being, I would like to say how fun we all think it's actually going through an entire primary school without anyone finding out that you're dyslexic? That is terrible and we have been so far behind on that agenda. That is why I have thought that there was a need to tighten the guys seriously, and you don't do that in a snap, that is 7-8 per cent. I hope that the person who will eventually be my successor will take up that glove and come up with a proposal once a year, because there is a need for sustained efforts to get it caught as early as possible and to help both children and parents as well as possible, but also the teachers who have to teach across the line as well as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325112628	Then we thank the Minister. There are no more brief remarks, and that means that we are now moving to the negotiations, and here we are starting with the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Alex Vanopslagh. Alex Vanopslagh I thought I was on at the end). You can be, but you are at least first, and if you want to, you can be on at the end. All you have to do is tell the President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325112657	I'm still a little new in the job. Thank you. Fortunately, I have written a rapporteur's speech. It's always nice to come to the end, because then you can sum up on different inputs and the like. I had actually written a few general remarks about the government when it comes to children and young people, but I think my speech has become a little out of date, because it was a very good speech that the Minister made. Nevertheless, I would argue that when I look at the policy pursued by the government, I sometimes get the suspicion that the government does not have a very good understanding of what the good child life is and what it consists of. Too often too often, and that is clear, because we are politicians we think in systems and in states, but we forget to recognise the child as a small dignified and budding individual, and there is a need for more than institutional places, municipal compensation, a dry diaper and many educators in the crèche. The young child needs love, care, play, joy and also for mother and father, i.e. parents, the family, and I think that the family plays a far too small role in the politics pursued, including by the government. It is a little paradoxical, because there is hardly anything more important for children than the mother and father or at least the parents, it can have many forms nowadays. It's with the parents that you learn all the important things. We learn to talk, we learn to walk, we learn to eat ourselves, that's what builds our brains, and it's through the interaction with our parents that we learn to enter into meaningful relationships. That is why I am actually concerned about the fact that we are pursuing a policy that will enable families of young children in particular to have a better chance of quality time, and we have made a number of proposals on this on a regular basis, together with the new citizens, but unfortunately we have not received a majority in favour of it. But I miss a look for the good child life, that is, that there is also time with the family. Unfortunately, I do not always think that the government has a look at what is the good youth life. It is clear that childhood is about security, about stability, about good frameworks, but youth is also very much about being able to explore, experiment and try, take risks and then see how the legs carry it, so to speak. It is, of course, a need that has been there for as long as humanity has existed, and then we need to unfold and experiment, but there I find it a little too often that we are indulging young people, most recently with this proposal, when it comes to alcohol and tobacco, it is an inestimation in which some of the youth life is taken away from young people. Then the whole corona epidemic is a separate chapter, and it has had major consequences for children and young people. I do not really want to spend much time on that, because I think it is more the general problems and challenges that are interesting to talk about. When it comes to our education system, we have touched on it a little, it is certainly no more learning objectives that are needed, it is not less tests or fewer grades, because I believe that this can contribute to more anxiety and loneliness and hopelessness if we are to use those very big words. Nor is it the case that when we look out at the wider world, Denmark has more tests or more grades or more professional requirements than in other countries. And if you focus on that, I think you are simply in danger of completely overlooking what is really the tendency to distrust among children and young people. We talked about this a little earlier. I believe that part of the crisis is about children and young people growing up more in a world where we have forgotten what childhood is really about, and then the conditions in which they have to meet the world or the conditions they face in the world have been messed up. Today we are calling for children to decide their own sex, they are asked to define their own learning goals already in their schooling, they must save the climate, they must abolish hunger before the confirmation age, they must decide how the Prime Minister can cope with pandemics and wars. Then, damn it, think that children's life is more stressful when it is the type of thing that also takes up a lot in school, especially when children are not entitled to quality time with the family, they are not entitled to a class teacher they know and are comfortable with, there are too many temp hours in the primary school, nor can they too often count on quiet in the classroom or be sure that the school, in some places, is free of violence. Now I do not have much time, I actually only have 37 seconds left, but if I should try to put some words into the headline on what young people's well-being is about, although it is not adequate, then it is a lack of identity and a clear framework, it is a search for meaning and standards. It is a lack of mature adults and a lack of education, and then it is also a lack of close communities, both in civil society and in the family; there is not enough room for it. So this is not something we can solve with higher costs, more target numbers or more public servants. I don't think it's the system that can solve it. I think that something can be done about family policy, something about school policy. I think there are some good thoughts in what the Minister says, that we must put the formation and skills first and ensure that there is a firm framework where adults dare to be adults. Against this background, I would like to make the following comments on behalf of the Left, Conservatives, New Citizens, Danish People's Party and Liberal Alliance: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that young people's distrust is increasing and that the government's corona management, where precisely the young people were asked to make the biggest victims, has exacerbated development. Young people's distrust is a complex problem which is rooted in a number of different factors: opinion, identity, lack of mature adults, coherence, formation and well-functioning communities. The solution is not to unilaterally remove character requirements, remove tests and to lower the professional level at school. There must be a greater rethink of the whole way, the framework is set for children and family life in Denmark. Therefore, the Folketing calls on the government to look wider at the problem and not focus on the easy, but wrong, solutions that do not address the root of the nettle. • V 54).
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113254	Thank you. That text of adoption will be included in the further debate. And then there is a brief comment at Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113305	Thank you. And thank you very much for raising this very important question. This is probably one of the greatest crises and challenges of our time, and I also know that Mr. Alex Vanopslagh is very real in his concern about these things. I could hear from the rapporteur that there was a question of character pressures and races and all these things that we in the SF have been very critical of, both because that is what we hear from the children themselves and from the young people themselves, and that is also what we hear from the adults that so much pressure has been put on. After all, some plans have been made for the children to be more skilled a year earlier than they were in the previous year, so they must be constantly pushed through • they must be faster, they must be more skilled, they must perform, and the grades are measured. - Sir... Alex Vanopslagh see that there is a contradiction to the good children's life to have time and space to find his own way into an educational system versus character pressure and test regimens?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113412	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113418	I understand why you can have that idea, but that is not the case. Well, we've had grades for decades there are many different generations here, and we've always had tests and grades without that having led to distrust. I don't believe that's the reason. Then you would see in those countries where the pressure of character is greater, that there would be greater distrust, and that is just not the context. I think this is something more fundamental; the Minister also mentioned it. In other words, it is to a certain extent a lack of education that makes life even more fragile because the framework is more fluid. I also referred to the fact that children have to choose their own sex and that they do not have the same virtues passed on, which makes it difficult to resist the pressures of life. There is also something about the fact that the bar for success has been set very high. You can become whatever you want, and you have to spider me too burn for it at the same time. And then, when there are the many different factors that make young people under pressure, I think it is reflected on the surface as a pressure of character. But it's just a symptom, it's not a cause. I believe, on the other hand, that if we remove the grades, the framework will become even more fluid, and it will become even more confusing and stressful where grades and specific skills are a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113527	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113530	I believe that the debate will be somewhat derailed if we run it out on whether to choose one's own sex. I really think you just have to open up to say that there may be other ways you can have it, and that it is actually okay. I think it is really important to look at the education system which is now built on constantly pushing the child forward more quickly. It is true that we have always had grades, but the question is also: what are we putting in the grades? What is it that you're measured on? In the eighth grade, you already have to decide what to be for the rest of your life. That is something that cannot be decided at the time. And we know that as adults, we change direction many times. So it also has something to do with our education system: what are we imposing on our children, and what are we, as a society, demanding of them that they perform on?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113617	Well, I'll be very open to looking at a change in the grade scale. Well, I think one of the challenges with the 12-character scale is that you start with 12, and then you go down. And then the starting point is that it is common to get 12, and otherwise you have made some big mistakes, whereas it was so in the old days and so old days it is not even; it was when I was young that there were 13s after all for the extraordinary achievement, i.e. for the one who had made particular efforts. So there I think we would be able to do something political that could, at least to a small extent, help alleviate the problems. And, of course, we can also do something about the counseling of young people. I think we need to give them more advice to find something they can be skilled at, and not necessarily something they are passionate about. When so many young people choose high school, it is also because it is an extension of the time when you do not have to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113700	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113704	Thank you. Not surprisingly, I'm very much in agreement with sir. Alex Vanopslagh, and thank you for your speech. I would also just like to confirm, as a former schoolteacher, that it is not necessarily the grades that matter. That's the way you talk the characters, that's the way you talk the question about what it is, you And then all the kids just basically need to be met with the words: You also know something; there's also something you can do; it may not be exactly this way you have to, but then you can so much else. This is the thing about being met with the recognition of all competences. That is also why I have spoken a great deal about the restoration of traditional mastery, for example, so that much more recognition is given to all the competences that exist. But I really just want mr. Alex Vanopslagh to confirm this, that the grades are not the basic problem, but that there are so many other things we can do to ensure that children and young people are better able to thrive. Moreover, I fully agree that we must, of course, reinstate the traditional 13-scale. It's urgent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113805	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113808	I can confirm that this is both my opinion, but also that it is completely objective. I think there was something interesting in what Mrs Mette Thiesen said that everyone can be good at something and that we should be recognised for it. I think it was Henning Fonsmark who wrote the book "The fight against knowledge," and what has happened in Denmark is that we have lost the culture of skill. We have lost focus in this way on the specific skills, and it is the specific skills that build up self-esteem. We can see it with our own children when they learn how to ride a bike, the confidence it gives: Hey, there was something I couldn't find out, and now I've learned it. It's lovely concrete. My feeling, and I don't go to primary school anymore, is that there is little too little focus on the skills in primary school and a little too much focus on the competences, and it's hard to know when you master a competence. When are you innovative? When will you be able to communicate? Well, I know I'm communicative, but I think we need to get the one that's skill culture to get back out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113859	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113901	I agree very much. And that is also what each teacher has the opportunity to do, if you also have time to find out how to lift these young people or children, so that everyone has the opportunity to unfold the potential they have, and be open and honest that everyone does not have to go the same way. We also see a lot of people in high school, too many. There were many more people who should take vocational training or go a completely third way perhaps. So it's always this speech of the various competences. I am also very glad that there are more of us who are concerned about it. Another thing we can discuss is when you start school. Should you start when the municipality thinks you are ready, or can you be allowed to wait an extra year e.g.?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113944	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325113948	I don't have a strong opinion on that last one. I remember it being debated in primary school. I think that one thing that is generally pleasing is that it is largely the whole of the Danish Parliament that agrees with the aim that more people should take a vocational training course. But we can't force people to. We are already discussing the subjects, so I do not quite know what the solution is to it. Perhaps some of it could be that there should be a better study environment in vocational education, so that they have more of the same festive and youth environment if they can buy beer at all at the time they have in high schools. Because I think there are also many social reasons why you choose high school. There, perhaps, the social aspects of vocational training could be strengthened.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325114026	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325114030	Thanks for the speech. I would like to ask a little deeper about something in fact rather than the grades, that is, what is below it. Because when we were children, many of us had a lot of time to play with our friends, and what has happened over the past few decades is that children have had less time to play and less free time playing with their friends. And what happens when you play is that you're in control. Then you're not stalking something; then you're just doing what you're obsessed with right now. I believe that the problem for children and young people today is that they are so enormously externally controlled. There has been a shift from doing something that made sense in itself to pursuing some external goals, and then you become extremely vulnerable. For then there is no longer a connection, compared to the fact that what you do is in itself meaningful. Because no matter how hard you work, it is not certain that you will get the good character. No matter how much effort you make, it is not certain that you will get the job you want. So there is a decoupling, in relation to what is meaningful here and now, and the goal. And that makes you vulnerable. So instead of discussing only grades, I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance: does the rapporteur share the analysis that part of the problem is that children simply have too little chance of being internalized and being too externally controlled?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325114144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325114148	At least I thought it was a good kick. There's all this stuff about being internalized and playful, and you can ask yourself whether a longer school day has contributed to it or not. And I don't think it has. You know, there's something interesting about being so externally focused. I believe that some of the things that seep down through society are ideals and norms. Now we were talking about a no-no-no-no school, but there are some social ideals. It's kind of the thing about you doing what you're passionate about, isn't it? Everything must be passionate. You can be anything you want. I think that is some ideals that can be quite burdensome. One is constantly focused on living up to all kinds of ideals, and that is where we have a task in passing on healthier ideals. They are not so externally focused; they are more focused on how you are like a decent person. Well, it's good, old-fashioned virtues, whether you find them in Greek thinkers or in the Bible. It's some virtues where it's not about what you do on the outside, but how you act as a human being that you're decent and honest and helping people on your way. I think that if we pass on some of those virtues, it might be easier to find a way through life. I hope it didn't get too abstract and too high-flying.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325114254	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325114301	Thank you. And thank you for the good speech and the reflections. I just have to hold on to primary school: Freedom and responsibility... some reflections on it. Yesterday we were in Holbæk in connection with this attempt at freedom in the school area, and only that they had been given the freedom to carry out their teaching work and had therefore also been given the responsibility to do the job, had after all lifted almost the entire primary school in Holbæk. And given that they were also responsible, they could not call the mayor and ask: How do we solve this? They were in charge! Try to give a few examples of that with freedom and responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325114344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325114350	But freedom and responsibility are the key to very good, especially in the field of welfare. In other words, to have the freedom to solve the task as you see fit, but also to be responsible for it, whether it goes wrong or bad, I think that is one of the challenges we have in the public sector. There's a little too many places when things go bad, where you don't take responsibility for it. So, if we take a completely different area like Kongsgården in Aarhus with poor Else who was mistreating, one could hear such echoes of that ah, it is also because there have been too many savings; there is a shortage of resources; and it is politically that we have failed. No, it is the individual employees who have first and foremost failed. But when there is no freedom, there is no responsibility either, and we will have the irresponsible society if it is that we do not stand firm for freedom. So I think it is important in welfare policy and in school policy, but also in general, that you also have responsibility for your own mistakes. Because I don't think life gets any better because you have to sit on your hands and say, 'That's the fault of the others!'
ParlaMint-DK_20220325114442	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325114445	Thanks for the fine reflections. But this was also true of the students, also in Holbæk, as we saw. They thrive better because the students are also taken into account in the responsibility, i.e. as part of the solution where they say: we have the challenge and we have to solve this problem. Because then the teacher doesn't come and say, "This is how we do it." One involves the students and says: How do we solve it, and how do we do it, so that we can all be involved? Just a few reflections on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325114511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325114514	Well, exciting, I'd say, it's kind of surprising, too. Now I wasn't in Holbæk, but my intuitive reaction is that I don't like hearing too much about a teacher coming and saying: Well, dear children, how are we gonna do things, how are we gonna teach? I think that is something that can help to be stressful. But maybe I'm wrong. Well, if the reality in Holbæk shows something else, I'd like to learn more about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325114538	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. And then it is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325114559	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Liberal Alliance for raising this debate, which we have fortunately had before, but whose basis, to put it mildly, we have not taken care of. Now, a lot of people before me have mentioned some of the figures that show what massive problems there are, so I am not going to spend my gunpowder on that. But I am glad that somehow we are moving into a place where we are really getting closer and approaching a discussion about what is really the problem here. And I thought a lot about it myself, because I had a very good debate at Aarhus University. Alex Vanopslagh where I thought it was quite strong of him as a the obvious liberal politician in fact also to acknowledge that that total freedom can sometimes be totally devastating. Well, the fact that it's like being said that you can become anything, and you only have to listen to your dreams, means that you get into extreme existential pressure every single day, because if you're not on your way to the Nobel Prize or something that's happiness, you've probably made the wrong choice yourself. In other words, none of us go through either family life, working life, youth life or anything else, without it sometimes being a disgrace. And when things go wrong, it's probably because you picked something wrong. I mean, it can just be a part of life, and it's extremely distressing that you're always responsible. And now the minister asks about that: What is the view of education at all? Yes, well, it is true that education sets the individual free to pursue some dreams, and that is why taking an education is something one does to get more opportunities for oneself. But it is also true that you take an education because you want a place; you want to do something; you want to do something; you want to do something; you want to be something for someone. And that's not independent of what the others are. It is because there are some who need to be taught that it is meaningful to be a teacher. Well, there's just roles in this society that you're supposed to have. And that is why I think it is actually good that, across the political spectrum, we have started to discuss both that with what one's place is in society, in the community, but also how the framework in the school sector contributes. Because it is clear that we spend a lot of time in school. And that is why I think it is wise to discuss how to set standards, in other words, first and foremost: what is the ideal of education or the concept of education at all? Is that too narrow? There I think we are broadly in agreement that fortunately the things we learn at school may have become too similar, i.e. too book-focused. And that's why there's too many kids who don't have time to shine, because they have their strengths somewhere else. And, by the way, there are those who are good at the book, but who just don't learn how to set up the lamp, and who therefore don't master their lives and have to call a friend every time they have a very common everyday problem. Well, the wider formation I think we should have. But I think we should also stick to it, at least it is my conviction that there is a framework; there is something you can; there are some things you have to live up to. And that's where ratings and grades, I think, also give a guidance. It is just very important, when there is actually an assessment, that this does not mean that the education system is then also instrumentalised, because it is one of the biggest problems. I remember when I went to college. I'm actually not sure I should have been there, because if I hadn't just thought about what I just wanted to do, but had actually thought about what I would like to work with, then I should probably have been a teacher. But that's another talk. I remember going to lectures from which you didn't know you could learn anything and which weren't part of the curriculum, and that you often learned the most when you didn't expect you to learn anything because you heard something that wasn't mandatory. And my view now is that more and more children and young people are asking themselves: What should I use it for? I mean, is that part of the curriculum? Can I capitalize on this investment of time? And I think it's extremely unfortunate if our time, speaking of whether you're external or internal, is always about what you aim to spend time on, is something you think gives a better character or is part of the curriculum or puts a stronger in some such instrumentalization of education and education, because frankly we get the most formed when it wasn't on purpose. I mean, you run into an insight that you didn't expect to get, because you didn't look out in advance like you did that lecture and or something. And that is such a banal, I think, recognition, but I still think it is one of the things that has caused us to lose a collective orientation, namely that we no longer have time. We don't have time for anything that's not what's at the core. And I think we should do something about that too. Oh, that's not a lot to say in this area, even though I've been talking for a really long time. I will read out a text for adoption when I cannot say more here, and it is on behalf of S, SF, RV and EL. And it reads: Suggested adoption The Parliament looks with great concern at the widespread distrust among children, including the negative consequences of the coronapandemic for the well-being of children. The handling of covid-19 in Denmark has underlined the importance of strong communities for children. The Danish Parliament notes that several initiatives have been launched to strengthen the communities in which children are involved. This applies in particular to the introduction of minimum standards, as well as the improvement of primary and secondary education to ensure more calm, security and care in children's everyday lives. The Danish Parliament also notes that the challenges are far from being solved and that stronger efforts are needed to prevent and counteract distrust. In particular, it is essential to improve help for children with special needs, to overcome the pressure many children experience in education, to strengthen the competences of the teaching staff and to promote a broad concept of education, better opportunities for children's play, well-being, learning and development. • V 55).
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115210	Thank you. This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further negotiations. Then there are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115217	Thank you for your speech, and also thank you for the last time we debated this at Aarhus University. It is true that I spoke against excessive liberation, but I just have to make it clear that it is not freedom. There is a difference between freedom and liberation. The excessive liberation that the family has to fill less, because it is the individual's liberation from the family, it is the liberation from roots and standards and values that we pass on from generation to generation, or the liberation that leads to a self-absence, where I am only something for myself and not for others, and there I think that we agree that is a problem. But that is not an argument for restricting freedom. The rapporteur does not say this, but I think it is almost staggering that, just as we have now taken away the freedom from young people in relation to which high school they choose, perhaps we should also take away the freedom from them in relation to which education they choose later. It is not freedom that is a problem; it is this excessive liberation. I'm sorry about the feinschmeckery, but I just needed to clarify that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115323	I don't think that's a feinschmeckeri. This is quite real and an important discussion. When you are told that you can become what you want, it is not just a liberation from the standards, it is also such an ultimate freedom that makes you accountable for it, even if you did not get your Nobel Prize. We can discuss it. What I think is important in terms of the solution to this is that when I want to discuss something other than just freedom, it is because I think it is important that in our education sector too we focus on some of the things we learn in the community. Therefore, one can say that one should not be freed to think that only what one does is important. One has to focus one way or another in one's education on some of the communities from which one learns something, but one also has to look in one's free choice of education at what kind of community one has to be part of for the rest of one's life. It is not because I say that you have to choose what politicians have figured out there is a need, you have to do it, you have to find the place in life, the place in the community that makes sense to you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115433	Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115443	[Sound emission]... reach a good consensus. I would like to ask something quite different and now I know that most of them are teaching rapporteurs here, namely family policy. Thinks sir. Jens Joel, that some of the solution to child distrust can be found in that we make it easier for young families to have more time with the children? After all, we have proposed a tax credit to take care of our own children, but there may also be other options. Does the rapporteur think that this is a road to be looked at?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115512	We had a long debate on that proposal, and it can be said that there is nothing to prevent you from spending more time with your children yourself. What was discussed was what we are investing in as a society. After all, it has been that we invest in securing the framework that children actually meet when they meet a welfare society institutions, educators, so there are adults enough and otherwise skilled and educated adults. So I kind of agree with you that one of our challenges is that not all children have good families, and probably also that a lot of good families are too busy with everything but being together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115549	Thank you. And then we're gonna have to pay attention to this indictment. But here you go, Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115557	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur a little more about something I actually asked the Minister; it might be that the rapporteur could help it a little better on the way. I know I may have a tendency to ask a lot of questions. It is really about those pupils who do not get through primary school, who cannot perform in terms of grades, tests, etc., and with whom we continue to fail because there is obviously a system that does not contain them well enough that is not there for them. In our understanding paper, we have also written some lines on the need for a national action plan on mental health, a review of the specific education system, to identify actions that promote the well-being of children and young people and reduce the culture of performance. And then there must be an assessment of whether grades can be smaller in the education system, whether the scale of grades needs to be changed or whether other forms of tests need to be introduced. I would, of course, like to know whether the rapporteur has any reflections on what we should be doing from here. 'Cause we're seeing this growing distrust, and it can't keep going this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115706	First of all, I fully agree that this is one of our main problems, that is. the children and young people who both come out of primary school without the skills they need later in life, but of course also come out of primary school with an endless series of failures behind them because they have not lived up to it. And there is part of the solution that we spread out the concept of primary education, so that there are more who have a chance of actually being good at something, so that we get more talents in play. I would also like to say that I think the same thing as the Minister, so it certainly does not help to ask me, given that I am saying something other than the Minister. But I agree with that part that there is no contradiction between being judged and getting grades and being successful in primary school. Well, that's not why people don't succeed in primary school. On the other hand, I agree with the rapporteur that we can do something about grades and can also do something about test forms, for example, more practical tests. In other words, experimenting with other ways of going to the exam is also, I think, a meaningful way of doing it; you can judge that even if you have organized the test differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115816	Thank you. Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115819	I guess we can agree that when you're in a test situation or you have to have a character for something, it's typically a matter of whether or not you're in a snapshot, which isn't always the right picture of what this student really can and has of reflections and reflections. There are a large number of students who cannot be included in these situations where they are being extremely pressured, and I just think that if we do not recognise that, then we have the status quo; then we will never get them in. We can't keep saying they have to live up to this when they can't live up to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115901	If, for example, you're gonna have to... Imagine that one of the things you have to be able to do is build something, then there is not necessarily something you build in half an hour, so it has to be done here and now. Besides, you also have long-term exams. I mean, it's not just about something going on over an hour. When you sometimes get cold sweat in that performance situation I can remember that I have tried that myself, and I was even one of those who had relatively easy going to school, I think it's because you're used to when you're convicted, it doesn't go so well. In other words, if you sometimes actually have a success in an assessment situation, then you will also be more strengthened next time you are judged, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115942	Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325115944	No, the last one I'd like to shoot down. I have also always been one of those who has been good at mainly oral exams, but I have still been nervous before each and every one of them, and I think it is also important to be able to perform. I do not agree at all with what comes from the SF, because I also think it's really important that now the schoolteacher comes back to learning how to do these things. That is something we need to be prepared for, because we also need to be able to go to a job interview, and we also need to be able to perform at a different level. Having said that, what I really wanted to ask the rapporteur was this with more time. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh also mentioned it a little earlier. I usually call what many families find themselves in, the Socialist hamster wheel. In short, it is a dependence on two incomes, so that the whole thing can simply be linked in family terms. It is not a matter of just giving different priorities; it is basically about having the world's highest tax burden in Denmark and that Danish families are therefore also suffering from it. This is among other things. the reason for the basic lack of time with the family. I would just like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur whether the rapporteur really thinks that it is good that Denmark is the country with the highest tax burden and whether the rapporteur does not think that Danish families are paying for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325120059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325120101	First of all, I do not think that you should or can do away with nervousness up to an exam. I therefore agree that we are performing and that it is wise to learn how to perform. What is debilitating is the anxiety that some develop, because they repeatedly have no success at all and get a blow to the head. And it can be disabling. But I agree that it is actually a healthy thing to learn, so that now you have to perform, now you are judged, now you have to stand up for it. It is part of what you learn from going to the exam and not just the things you do professionally. I must admit that I think it is a little bit a stretch that we are standing here discussing the distrust of children and young people, and it will then be a discussion whether it is due to our tax burden. There is no indication that this is fundamentally different in many other Western countries. I understand that New Citizens mean it, and it is also quite okay, but I don't think it's the most relevant discussion to take in this context, i.e. whether our tax burden creates distrust.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325120209	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325120210	But it is. It's very relevant. Because that's exactly what makes Danish families not have time for the family time to do all the things they want to do, time to go home with the children for the first important years, all these things that are extremely important. So it's just such a diametrical contradiction, that is, how to choose to prioritize. Social democracy and the Red parties choose to give priority to people just having their children in an institution as early as possible and to upgrade there. We just want the families to be able to adapt themselves. So that's just where the difference lies. I would also like to ask the rapporteur, if I can do so, about this idea of equality. Compared to the whole thing, you're so scared of, among other things. in primary school, to talk about someone who is talented in some things, and if we are to bring more competences into play, does not the rapporteur also think that this is problematic?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325120300	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325120301	I don't have any trouble talking about talents. I think that the whole discussion about a broader concept of education is, in fact, due to the need for more talents. By the way, I also think that we should have more models. Well, that's one of the reasons why I think it could be really beneficial if, for example, people in primary school could also be dragged in, who had a craftsmanship and got a credit teacher's education and perhaps actually was a different model for some of those who were good with their hands. It is a thorough discussion that we must also have with the teaching staff about how we do this properly. After all, it is important that you have both some machines you can look up to and some people you can look up to if you are actually to bring more talents into play.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325120341	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Gitte Willumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325120344	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In the text of the adoption, which the rapporteur read out, there is talk of calm in school and in class space, and I fully agree with the rapporteur that is important if you are to thrive in school, that there is quiet in class space and that you are aware of what agenda is at stake when you are in class space. But I would like to hear the rapporteur reflect a little on whether what class space is, if you can call it that, comes from strong competences of the teacher in the classroom, or it comes from pouring more money into school. Because you often hear that there is a lack of money, but for me to see and for the Conservative People's Party to see, this is just as much about what we saw with Else Marie at Kongsgården in Aarhus as what is happening inside the classrooms, so that you take on the task as a teacher in the room, and that you also have an obligation to ensure that there is calm and order in the class.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325120450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325120452	First of all, I absolutely agree that education cannot be provided if it is not also possible to ensure that there is tranquillity and the possibility of actually receiving it. Then you can make different forms of teaching, and speaking of resources, I would say that sometimes, as we saw during corona, you can also create that calm if you have the resources to make different divisions and smaller groups. But it is not the case that more money can compensate for the fact that the teacher does not have the right skills, and that is why it is two-sided. Well, sometimes you can actually get something out of more teacher skills, team divisions and special efforts, but you can't pay off if the teachers don't have the right skills or the managers don't have the right skills, and that's one of the reasons why we're also discussing • but now it's not just about the payment • release in welfare areas. That's because basically you can't control yourself out of the problem that might be if you have a bad leader or a bad employee. You have to deal with this in a different way, because no matter how many schedules you are asked to check, it is so that if you are not skilled, it can be felt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325120601	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to the Left's rapporteur... here you go, sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325120614	Thank you for that, President. And thank you to the Liberal Alliance for raising this really important debate on well-being, because there is a need to do something about it going the wrong way. There may also be a need to look at what we have done, how it is handled, and make some suggestions about how it might look like when we look forward. It will only be a few bids, because it will take longer in the conversation we need to have if we are to have more to succeed out there. Is the poor well-being of Corona alone? No, it doesn't, but it probably hasn't benefited that we two years have sent our children home in their rooms because of corona. The Left would have liked to have seen this different; we have fought for it but have not been able to find a majority to change it. On the other hand, we have helped to allocate a great deal of money to the primary school, both to raise the wealth and to make up for the professional backlog that we could see there was. In other words, we have also given money to the associations so that they could help out on the well-being out there. We did so because we want children and young people and because we could not convince the majority that the children could go to school. But this money thing doesn't do it; neither do well-intentioned words. Small adjustments of time and grades do not. Moreover, it is also the family's own free choice whether children should go to a school where grades are given and we would like to raise a flag for that. And then we do not think that fine press meetings will make it possible for us to raise the standard among young people. But what do we do? It is extremely complicated, as several of the rapporteurs have said, and the Minister has mentioned this. There is not one easy solution, one quick snap, one true and proper policy or smart words from up here from the platform. But the Folketing must set the framework for the society that we want when we talk about family and children and young people in kindergarten, school and adult life. And if we could settle for just setting the frame and then not completely control it violently into every detail, I actually think we were a bit along the way. The former rapporteur spoke of better governance • We believe that this is also a step on the way to more well-being among young people • Like more movement and more freedom and responsibility for those who lift our welfare out there. Let me take an example of good management: on Wednesday the Committee on Children's and Education was in the zoo, and several of the rapporteurs were there. Here we visited former students who had completed their studies and who had been invited to a practical training programme called flex education, zoologically. Much less school, much more internship. It was some teachers and leaders who were clear and competent and who were ambitious on behalf of young people. It was unbelievable. A little about movement, play and sport, which also increases our well-being, because sport is not only sport and physics; it is actually also community and strong relationships, it is well-being and health. When children move and play and compete, their health increases and they thrive better because they are also part of the community. And the community takes place in our associations if we give them time to do so. Because we have flooded our associations with crazy rules, legislation, the money laundering directive, so they spend a lot of time on something that, instead of really should be the young people. Let us change some of the rules, remove some of the laundering rules, so that the associations out there can help to lift the thrift among young people when they are in the associations. We need to move more in primary school. In Norway and Sweden they have several sports lessons; their teachers also have better skills. Let's try looking that way too. Above all, we must give back responsibility to the entities that lift our welfare. There must be freedom to choose solutions and to be confident that public employees will be able to cope with the responsibilities that come with if they have clear and clear management at the same time. I mentioned in the introduction that yesterday we visited a primary school in Holbæk, which was extremely enthusiastic about the attempt at freedom that they have become part of. The mere fact of having the freedom and responsibility to carry out the task almost brought Christmas lights to the eyes of both leaders and teachers; and so also the students, for they were taken into account in the decisions that were made about the attempt at freedom here. So some of what we think there should be is freedom and responsibility in the areas. We must give people the opportunity to choose for themselves whether they want a public solution or a private solution; then we must have good management and we must have a public school on the move.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121130	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121134	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I just took the floor because I was also in Holbæk and wanted to ask about some of the points raised by the rapporteur. Well, I actually thought it was quite obvious that they said a lot of times about all sorts of things: now we just do it. It was as if a mentality had changed, for they did not assume that they could not do it; they assumed that it was possible to do it. That's why they were starting to act on a lot of things. And it is extremely liberating and good and also helps to create a community around school and children's everyday life. That is why I think the rapporteur is right that children should be involved in this. On the other hand, and that's what I think, sir. Alex Vanopslagh stumbled a little over the fact that it is not the same as saying: More responsibility for own learning, and less decision from teachers. But you can get a feeling that the school is something we create together, that things can be done and you can therefore listen to the student council. It's just that it doesn't have to be misunderstood in such a way that you might have too much responsibility for your own learning at school if you're going to be a little square.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121243	That is absolutely correct and it may be that I have said something wrong here. However, I fully agree with what the rapporteur says here. And it was also at Kildebjergskolen, where we were going to have an elective and a junior coach, and so they asked the students what such an elective should look like, so that they jointly formed this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121307	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121310	Thank you so much. And thank you for your speech. The rapporteur is very concerned about this issue of movement in schools. I am very concerned that the schools themselves decide what makes sense to them, and it is many times that there is movement. But I would really like to ask the rapporteur: with the reform of primary school, which was last adopted and which has destroyed, I think everyone can agree on, really, very much, one of the elements was, among other things, that there should be teacher-led free zones, because one would just as well see that the children were doing what was appropriate and where there was learning. And I was actually very concerned about what Mrs Lotte Rod said earlier about how much learning there is also in play. Now I myself came to say learning I usually hate to use that word because it's such a real primary school reform word, so I won't do that in the future. But it is just to hear the rapporteur: does the rapporteur not think that it can also be too much politician-led in relation to, for example, the reform of the primary school, where there is some rigidity on the schools, which means that they themselves do not take any of these things on their own?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121418	I'm pretty much in agreement with one for one. And that is why, in terms of movement, we have also come up with a proposal that each school should try to shape their own idea of what movement is, in the framework they now have, with the teachers and pupils that they have. And that also means, therefore, that we on the part of the Danish Parliament release the accelerator in relation to retail management. I totally agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121441	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121442	Thank you so much. I think it is a very good debate that we have, also in relation to this issue of bringing more competences into play and recognising several different competences. After all, it is also about teachers; it is also about having the opportunity as a teacher or leader to have the freedom to splash and do some of these things that you seem to make sense for your school. And that politicians have just interfered with everything, too much for far too long. So does the rapporteur not also agree that if we are really to see schools flourishing and where they also have the opportunity to create the best opportunities for the children who go there, then politicians simply have to keep their hands off?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121519	I totally agree. And it was actually also made out of yesterday's visit to Holbæk. It was precisely that leaders and teachers said: Politicians, sit on your hands; do not make more rules or interfere; we can do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121536	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And the next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121555	Thank you. I am deeply concerned about the distrust that we see among children and young people. They're kids who don't feel good about going to school because they're insecure. It is children who feel pressured and stressed about having to perform, having to be faster and more skilled. It's kids who have a stomachache every day when they go to school. And I simply cannot accept under any circumstances that so many people feel that way. In the understanding paper, we agreed that the government should draw up a national action plan to improve the well-being of children and young people and to make up for the grueling performance culture. It's almost three years ago, but nothing has happened, and unfortunately the misfortune has only increased. And there is no doubt that corona and the lack of communities play a huge role, but the problem is bigger than that. It is so complex and spans so wide that if we do not get started on a national action plan, we will fail an entire generation. We need to look at leisure, we need to look at primary school and preventive help, and we need to turn down the pressure both students and staff are experiencing. It's time to calm down. We need to invest much more in early prevention, so that children and young people get help much more quickly, and that must be before they are completely broken. Unfortunately, the national health profile shows that we are very busy. Fortunately, we have already made some good agreements such as the law on minimum standards and an increase in primary and secondary education. But there is no doubt that we in the SF will go much further. We are by no means in the finish line. We must put an end to the many tests and to the tyranny of character that prevails in primary and secondary schools and in the rest of the education system, and above all the wild detailed management by politicians. When one in three young women and one in five young men are in disarray, they are not wrong with them. That story needs to be stopped. It is, on the other hand, a symptom that something is amber-soundingly wrong in our society. A few weeks ago I visited the Children's Terms where we had a talk about the Children's Phone. More than one in four conversations with young people over 15 years of age are about well-being and misfortune. Just under 9%. of the conversations are about suicidal thoughts. It's serious. Youth today is really complex and full of choices and opportunities that need to be dealt with, and at the same time we hear that young people feel alone in making the decisions, and with the social structure we have built up, they are afraid that there is no room to choose wrong or to change their minds. It is a culture built up to such an extent by political decisions that children or young people should go through education more quickly and that many of the opportunities for taking their own path have been closed. Most people do not have the best of crashing through the system of 10- and 12-s, if they also have to remember to care for friends, get to the right parties, remember the perfect image on social media and then also just take a really good leisure job. It is difficult to be a whole person for good and evil, as we are, with such pressure that constantly lies in the systems. So we must take political responsibility for the pressure we have put on children and young people's shoulders and give them room to get through education and to adulthood at their own pace. The most important thing must be that you can become someone something.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121948	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325121952	Thank you. Thank you for your clear speech, too. I will not hide the fact that there are some things I disagree with. Now I don't have much time, so I'm gonna have to settle for one of them. In fact, one of the last things is that we have to become someone and not do anything. I understand the idea of it, but so, I think that what is the way forward is that children and young people are experiencing skills so that they can become something so that they can be something for someone, so that they can make a difference to their fellow human beings. You have to correct me if I'm wrong, but in this thing about us becoming someone, there is also that we have to be authentic, creative people and become the best version of ourselves, and I think it's some of what's pushing and some of what's underneath that perfection culture; it's that we have to be someone, an original human being, rather than being able to do something, so that we can do something for other people and be of use. And it is also in that light that grades and tests are important, because that is where we have to measure the skills so that we can make a difference in the world. So I would just like to hear the rapporteur's reflections on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122048	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122050	Thank you. We've been talking about external and internal governance in this debate. It does not really belong to another educational concept when it comes to education and when you are ready as a child to make the right choices and have learned what your parents have tried to give you. But when we talk about inner and outer control, or at least structures, it's all about: My confidence is my outer scaffolding.That's what I can do; that's the way I can look; that's the way I can make the fine pictures on SoMe, but that inside of being someone is the expression of the person I am, and that I have a worth whatever's going to happen. That is what I think we have come so far from, and that is what I think we need to get back to. Whether you're smart at reading and remembering texts at school and processing them; whether you're very talented at screwing up pipes or working with electrical installations; or whether you have a disability and maybe can meet 5 hours a week, we all have a worth, and that's what we should remember to have back in our educational system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122157	Sir. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122159	An excellent answer... thank you for that. As far as the grades are concerned, the rapporteur could imagine that if you turned down the grades or completely removed them, it would be the case that children from book homes with resourceful parents would actually be able to thrive in it, because with the various social well-beings they can find out whether they are skilled enough, while children from less academic homes would always be in doubt as to whether they are living up to what they have to learn because there are no grades and tests? Is it not a concern that the rapporteur might have?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122232	Depends on what you put instead. And it's not like I'm saying that all grades are bad in themselves. It depends on what we put in the grades and how to get the grades served. What is most important in relation to a character, or when you have shown what you have learned in a subject, that is, what you master and not only can perform, is the feedback you get. Because what's in that number? So, is that just a number that isolates me to be that or that, and if I'm a 10-girl, do I have to stay a 10-girl? What exactly have I learned in this process? What was it I did well and where was it that my challenges were? That's where I want us to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122309	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122311	Thank you so much. I think that what the rapporteur says is very interesting, because that is exactly the way the character is served that is relevant. We can do that with the scale of characters at a different time. I mentioned that. I would like to hear from the rapporteur something quite different, namely about a concern that I am dealing with as a mother and in general. There is always an extreme focus on crises. There is a climate crisis and almost everything is going to be a crisis. This is something that young people take a lot of care of, and a lot of these problems are also served to them in primary school. I can see that we need to talk, for example, about the UN's global goals, where children must concentrate on the big world and on inequality in third world countries and everything else. Sometimes the nearest is also in schooling and on intermediate stages. This, in my opinion, is not something for children to take care of. It's an adult problem, and it's not something that kids should be indoctrinated with. Does the rapporteur not think that it is problematic for adult people to make disaster scenarios in such a way as to pass them on to children?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122421	I have to say yes to that. I'm also a trained educator, and it's clear that I have a rough professional attitude about how to talk to kids about this, too, depending on what they can see and what you feel they can take on themselves. But there is a difference between transferring responsibility to children and young people and leaving it up to them to deal with major structural problems and to inform them about and tell them what is going on in our world. That must be according to the level at which they are and, incidentally, as I think Mr. Sten Knuth highlighted yesterday, involving them where they can be, for being involved gives a kind of influence on your world, depending on your age. This does not mean that we should give them too much responsibility. We need to make a fine, sharp cut. But the fact that you get involved and get that influence is actually also something that helps to give sense of self-esteem, speaking of what we were talking about just now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122517	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122518	Of course you have to talk to the children, because they also hear about the war in Ukraine, they also hear about climate and everything else. I just think it's important to stick to the need for some sensible adults to talk these problems down, because these are not the children's problems. In any case, I have experienced, among other things. The UN's global goals are being used in some small classes where I do not think it is relevant to concentrate on anything other than its own little duck pond and its own children's lives. That's kind of what I'm having a problem with and I'm questioning. Now Mr. Alex Vanopslagh used to do this with gender, so you have a completely different approach to it. I had to tell my own son when he was going to have sex lessons... it's week six at school... that he just had to remember that there are two genders, because I know what's being told about. It's just to hold on to those very general sensible things that children need to concentrate on, and everything that we adults need to take on our shoulders.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122608	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122609	I myself found it extremely difficult when the war broke out in Ukraine, to find out what to say to my children, and for a long time up to that I tended to say: nothing is happening; there will be no war here. It is clear that as parents we have the responsibility to look after our children and try to give them some assurance that hopefully the world is still relatively safe. But that is why we can talk to them from the slightly more open perspectives, because that is what we are actually good at in Denmark. Actually, we know quite a lot. We have an enlightened society, and we have built this up over many years. So it is about adults taking responsibility, but that we are still inviting away to the dialogue and not closing many doors.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122652	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Gitte Willumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122654	Thanks for the speech. I have to say that some things we disagree on, I understand. Some of what I would just like to ask the rapporteur is about grades. Because if we are to have, as the rapporteur says, a society and a school where there are no grades, how are we going to do some sort of selection? In other words, you have to move on in an education system, and there is no room for all places. We cannot train 7 000 doctors a year; there is no room for that. So how does the rapporteur think that selection should be made when it comes to furthering the education system? Is that a test at the educational institution? Are these conversations with everyone who's coming in? Are we in a lottery draw? In other words, how does the rapporteur think we should do that selection in the education system?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122750	Now I said in one of my answers earlier that I am not saying that we should just remove all grades in that way. I think it is much more important to look at how we use the character system and how we give feedback on it. But there are also a number of experiments going on around with character-free schools, so they have found their solutions and ways in it. And there I just think it's exciting that we're looking at the fact that we're not reducing ourselves just to numbers and that's the only thing we can navigate from. We can easily figure out another structure and way to figure out where we're going. Not many people want to be a doctor. There are also 10,000 things I can't stay and never have to be, because then I'm going to really ruin something out there. So that's it. But there we can easily go in and create some other kinds of systems. What I'm trying to talk about with the grades is that when there's so much focus on whether you succeeded or failed with a high or low grade, we keep getting our thumbs down in terms of whether you're good enough as a human being.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122855	Mrs. Gitte Willumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122856	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur that it means a great deal how to serve the character. And I've given a lot of grades in my life. But is the rapporteur not in the way the education system says that the most transparent way to access education is to see what is required here and that there is a figure. Well, in our party, we're not so stressed that there's a number. It makes you know exactly what is required of me and what I have to be able to do to get in. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325122935	I mean, I also feel no stress over the fact that there is a figure for others, but I am listening to the many children and young people who find it extremely difficult to be in that you can only succeed with 10 and 12 numbers. Now, fortunately, we have had a cancellation of the training readiness assessment, where they say: Well, then you are just not ready for training. If we use the characters in this way and simplify the human being and the learning one has been through, it is that we are getting more and more pushed out. It is as if the path and the way inside the primary school have become narrower and narrower, and there are fewer who can succeed, thrive and feel good there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325123013	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur, and then it is the rapporteur on the Radical Left. Here you go, Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325123024	Thank you for that and thank you very much to the Liberal Alliance for calling this debate. Many children and young people in Denmark are tumbling with distrust, with loneliness, with anxiety and with depression, and this is for me an expression of the most important social criticism. I believe that we have a responsibility to look at what kind of society we have and how we live with each other. I think it is thought-provoking that over a weekend we can find so many billions for defence and security. Why don't we do the same for children and young people? I think that over the last ten years we have made many mediocre decisions because the economy has been totally tight and I would like to see such a national compromise for children and young people. Our first task is, after all, like discussing: what should the analysis contain at all? That is why this debate today is so important. I would like to be inspired by what I believe is the most solid research I have seen in this field and which comes from the Centre for Youth Research. It points out that there are three things that push young people. One is acceleration, the other is achievement, and the third is psychology. Acceleration is this: everything has to go so fast and we're on our way to something else all the time. We know it from the news, we know it from the social media, but we have also contributed to some of it ourselves by introducing tight target management, by making drug congestion in our school, but in fact also by deciding that what you had to do before in the 9th grade, you now have to do in the 8th grade. Everything just has to go faster. Then there's the performance thing. I am not in principle opposed to grades. Now I say something we don't talk about so often, namely that I actually went to a German school and got character in everything from second grade. What I think is the problem now, and what we talked about before, is that the balance between the internal and external controls has tipped off, and I miss some time for children and young people to have this inner-controlled depression. Then there's the last psychology. We know and we talk much more about thoughts and feelings than we have done in the past, and that is in many ways very good. It's just gonna be a problem if all young people, like always, turn it inside. That is why I believe that the most important thing we must do is to give some more time to play and to immerse ourselves in something that is outside ourselves. Lene Tanggaard talks about this learning forgle, so that students should be allowed to be so engrossed in something that they forget that they are learning and that they really forget themselves. Another researcher, Louise Klinge, has reviewed all the knowledge we have and boiled it down to what it is for some basic needs you need to meet in order to actually thrive at school. One of them is to contribute. It is important that you have the feeling that you are important in the community. I therefore believe that we must take the lead in creating a movement, including among parents, for play, because children must have several hours to play with their friends. When children play, they imagine things that they can't yet, they fall and beat themselves, they get up again, they try again, and if you haven't tried it, if you haven't had time to practice it, you become vulnerable. When children play, they also have to negotiate with each other. They make friendships with each other, and they are happy because the game is meaningful in itself, and when children play they are in such an infinite time when they are not guided by being on their way to something else, but are just driven by what makes sense here and now. That is why I believe that it is so crucial that we have day institutions full of play and presence and communities. I believe that we must have strong leisure institutions where there are no performance requirements and goals and adults who constantly decide what they are supposed to be. And then I think we should have room for this, that we should be allowed to contribute at school. Because if you go to school and just sit behind your own computer and log in to a portal, you don't get the feeling that it's important that you are there. That is why we in the Radical Left are so concerned about giving more space to school gardens, animals, camp schools, concerts and teaching that engage students and where they can feel that it is important that they are there. That is also why I am concerned with having the long school days exchanged for more time for the educational reflection and for coaching at the school; that we abolish the common goals so that there will be more time to immerse ourselves and go into depth with things; that we turn up the diversity of materials; that we at all stop that in here in the Folketing very quickly we will only manage everything we can measure and that instead we find a way to commit ourselves to the whole purpose of the primary school. For then I also believe that there can be more room for what they so beautifully wrote in the Blue Report, namely that pupils should develop into whole, happy and happy people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325123518	Thank you. There are no brief comments to Mrs Lotte Rod, so thank the radical rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Here you go, sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325123536	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance for the opportunity to discuss child abuse. It is true, as the question says, that distrust may have increased during the corona, but it is one of our greatest social problems in general. The causes of distrust can be many, and so the answers are many too, and it has to be said that we are getting a long way in such a debate, and what needs to be focused on in order to have a meaningful dialogue about it? I am going to address the corner that says that I believe that for many of the solutions that we need to find, it is crucial that we create a good framework for children to join together, that even though the concept of competence may seem a little dull in relation to children, it is important that we learn to engage with others and we ensure that they can join together so that they have shared experiences with other children, later young, later adults. I think it is absolutely essential to prevent distrust and loneliness that, even from a very small age, you get help to get into fellowship with other children. It has not been so much in the debate so far, but I think it is really important that we also remember that there are a great many children who have disability, whether it is mental disability or physical impairments that make it particularly difficult for a group of children. I agree that this is a general problem, I fully agree with that, but for some children it is more difficult than for others. I would just like to point out that, in this light, it is very little reassuring that we can see that when we talk about the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen in relation to the help that children with disability can generally get in order to get everyday life together, mistakes are made in the processing of half of all cases. When we look at the complaints in the Complaints Board for Special Education, we can see something similar. Again, it is not to reduce the problem of well-being to that, but we must have a special focus, and other rapporteurs have said that it is the children who have the most difficulty, to which we must also pay the greatest attention. I think that when it comes to getting children ready to join together, it is very important that we have a recognition that it does not come naturally. You can have an idea that it happens quite naturally in a person's life, that when you associate with others, you also learn how to associate with others. There are significant truths in this, because experience can also make a master, but nevertheless I think it is incredibly important that we have the strong focus on the fact that there are some children and also young people who have a huge need for there to be well-known adults, whom they are confident about helping them. It is not every child who is able to enter the game himself; it is not every child who is able to enter on an equal footing with others in the social community. It is what is happening between children and between young people that is absolutely crucial. But it is very often necessary for an adult to communicate if children are not to end up lonely when they are with others. It's one thing to be lonely when you're only yourself and it's bad, but if you experience loneliness when you're together with others, it's alleral worst, and that's why we need to create that security. We have tried with some of the initiatives we have taken and we have done so in the area of day care and with other aspects than this aspect of well-being and have said that, yes, there is a need for more adults who can be taken by hand and be close to and be safe. We're in the whole field of leisure. We have taken a tiny step not only in terms of the general, but also with a particular focus on social standards, and again it is taking into account those children who may have the least difficulty. And we have also done so to a certain extent in the field of school, because there is also a need for a teacher to have time. When I say that, it's not to make this just a question of money that we can only solve it with more resources. But it's also about "It's also about It's perhaps not there that Enhedslisten and Liberal Alliance have the very closest combat community, but nevertheless thanks for raising the debate. I think there are a lot of important aspects to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325124057	There are no brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Gitte Willumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325124113	Thank you, and thank you, to the Liberal Alliance, for raising this debate and putting the finger on something very important: how we have known for years that particularly young people, and especially girls, are mentally miserable. I have promised our rapporteur, Mai Mercado, who unfortunately could not be here today, to read this speech out loud. There are some very personal considerations in it, I would say, I could see that when I received it today, so of course you are welcome to ask in later. We know that young people are miserable, but we don't know why. It has been examined in various ways, but it is not quite clear what the reasons are, and that is enough because the problem is extremely complicated. The explanations may be many, but today I will strike at four reasons, knowing that it is only a subset of the overall complex problem: increased expectation pressure, a failed primary school reform, a youth left on the platform under corona as well as pressure from social media. We can solve something politically, but that's all we can do. Some challenges need to be raised and resolved in the family, but we can discuss this here in the Parliament Chamber and elsewhere in the public room, and then the discussion can continue in the families. The first is that some people point out that young people are experiencing increased pressure of expectation from the outside world. Young people today have a completely different freedom of choice than there were just generations ago. Typically, in those days, they trained as others in the family. The path was like laid; you just had to walk it. Today, many do not even know where the path is going. They are afraid to be wrong early in the education system and simply choose wrong. When you can be anything, you can be afraid to be too little. And when you can be anything, the expectation pressure from the families increases too, and from the friends. It can be difficult to navigate. Here the solution must be that children and young people must become someone before they become something to give the children a robust core from home, not as a buzzword from a job ad, but as a special belief that they are good enough as they are, precisely because they are who they are. The second point: Others point out that the primary school contributes to the perplexity experienced by many young people. I experienced it myself yesterday on a visit to Holbæk. After the school has gained more degrees of freedom, many young people say that they have become happier to go to school. They have been given happier teachers and they learn more, for example. by having been given professional blocks for a long time, where teachers can put in breaks when it suits the class. The students are divided into groups, some are at school, some are taught virtually at home, and they have the feeling of an individual education where they are met at their level. There's not the same pain in the stomach about having to do everything in every profession. It just shows how failed the reform of primary school has been. We Conservatives have wanted to change that for years. Especially the long school days wear out the students. If it was up to us, we made a decision to cut off the long school days once and for all. Third: Young people have paid a high price for corona. It actually has two groups: the elderly and the young. This applies to elderly people in nursing homes or hospitals who could not get visits and where loneliness just spread. The same has been true for young people. Many young people have suffered pain in the soul during corona. They have been repatriated for long periods of virtual education at Teams. We have both a professional and a mental backlog, and unfortunately I suspect that we have not yet seen the full consequence. More young people are struggling with anxiety than before. Last Monday I visited a studio in Odense, which reported an increase in young people, which is extremely hampered by anxiety. They are young people who should have been embraced by youth and choose the education they wanted. They should not really be in the target group for the room, but they are in the room because the anxiety they experience is so disabling and pervasive that it completely defines their everyday life quite so violently. Now I can see that the President is getting up, so I'm gonna skip the last one. Those were the words of Mai Mercado or some of the words. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325124645	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325124710	Thank you, President. There must be a great deal of praise to the Liberal Alliance for having raised this question debate on the distrust of young people, and in the Danish People's Party Parliament Group we spent a lot of time debating it, and that is always a good sign for a question debate. It may seem a little strange that in one of the happiest countries in the world we have to talk about the distrust of young people, but we should not have talked very much with young people to see that many of them are struggling with anxiety, mental distrust, inferiority complexes, and that there are many other things that they are struggling with. I don't have a snapshot solution, I don't have a patent solution, and I'm not going to introduce anyone either. On the other hand, I am going to ask a lot of questions. So: What is the reason for the sharp increase in the number of young people who are ill? Is that the high divorce rate? So, we know that every other marriage breaks down in Denmark, and we know what it has to do with young people and children. Is it that we in Denmark have built up a state and that we have been a relatively left-wing society for many years? We know that the more socialism, the more individualism. The more the state takes over and thereby takes responsibility from individuals, the greater individualism becomes, and it can work in some ears opposite, but that is what has happened. Individualism was violent in the Communist dictatorships because the state took it all over. And that is the ultimate liberation when the individual is freed from the family. Is that what caused the problems? Denmark is in many ways a masculine society, while it is an extremely feminine society, masculine because women have taken over many of the masculine virtues, and feminine, because we have become a conflicting society where we are afraid to set a framework and where we are afraid to be clear. Is that what makes it? Or is it the violent digitisation we've been experiencing in the last 10-15 years, with social media a lot like Facebook, Instagram etc.? I don't know all of them, I don't remember them, but you've never been in such close contact, and yet loneliness is violent not only among young people, but especially among young people. Is that what makes it? Is this the violent debate on identity where we see everything flowing, as Heraklit said 2,500 years ago? Well, for me, there's two genders, but I know there's up to 50-55 genders, I can't figure it out at all. Does it create rootlessness so that everything flows with young people so that they no longer know who they are? Is it the perfection culture among girls in particular, which also leads to them pushing themselves for better grades in a country where we start to give grades from the eighth grade, which is counter-productive? Is it the enormous wealth we have in Denmark that offers unparalleled opportunities for young people? Is it globalisation and hence the loss of culture? Is it that we lack clear authority in the family, at school, at work? It is very significant that Canadian debater Jordan Bernt Peterson is experiencing a violent popularity among young men aged 30 to 40 years. Is it because we've gotten better at diagnosing and we've got so many psychologists talking the problem up? Is it because the American global culture today fills so much with young people that they may have forgotten to be rooted in their own? Lars von Trier once said he felt like 60%. American. I believe that many of the young people can sign it, among other things. Because the American culture, which is amazing, fills up so much, perhaps? Or is there nothing new under the sun? After all, Goethe caused a suicide wave among young people in 1700's Germany. And now I end by: Or is it due to what Reiner Perau wrote in his Geschäftskultur Dänemark... that Danes are busy? And do children and young people suffer? It may be in everything and not just one thing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325125235	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325125241	Thank you. And thank you for the question. I think it makes very good sense for us to ask a lot of questions and not draw too many quick conclusions. There are a lot of perspectives in this, but I think I can also say that we are probably a good piece apart. But what caused me to press me was the conclusion that a left-wing regime in Denmark has actually helped to give more individualism. Well, first of all, we have had a blue government since 2001 and right up to 2019 with a small break... that government was then also accused of being a little blue in its approach. But the increase we have seen in distrust has actually occurred under a blue regime, and where DF has been a significant player in the policy that has been pursued, based on ideas about the state of competition, where you are individual, where you have to create yourself; you have to create your reality; you are self-willed, you are self-interested, etc. Could I just have some comments on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220325125347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325125348	Yes, and I would also like to make it clear that this is not so much about the regime, but about the state and society that you build. So, the more the state takes over, the greater the individualization will be, because then the family gets less to have said and more to be put over. And we know, of course, that left-wing societies tend to build larger states • states that fill more people's lives. And under the bourgeois regime, with the support of the Danish People's Party, it has not fundamentally changed. It was an open question I asked because I could see that in Communist countries individualism was extreme because the state stood for everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325125441	Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325125443	However, I agree with that, it is true that we in the SF want a strong state. It's part of our social contract that we help each other. And my view of precisely this problem of child and youth distrust is that it is far more than just an individual problem; it is a structural problem, and therefore we have to go in and solve it from the point of view of a change in society. And there I actually think that you remove it from the individual where you're left to yourself. I therefore agree with the rapporteur that the family is very important, but we still have to take away the responsibility that society must make a change in order for children and young people to be better off in the society in which they live.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325125527	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325125528	In very large welfare states, the more people are left to themselves because the state is taking responsibility for you more and more. And my question is: can that be one of the reasons why young people are miserable? One among many. I do not know, but I think we would do well to ask ourselves that question before we extend the welfare state even further. There is a strong urge for this in Danish society. There is such an inertia in which one can hardly stop any longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325125600	Thank you. Then it's mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325125603	Thank you. I do not really have a question or a follow-up question afterwards. I just want to sign for the speech and the answers to a whole series of questions. Of course, that is not all I agree with, but I would just like to sign for it, because I think it was gifted, reflected and basically bourgeois and conservative, and it is rare to hear it in this Chamber, and even more rarely from the rapporteur's party. So I'm just gonna sign for that. I was hoping you'd have extra speaking time because I thought it was a pleasure to listen to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325125632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325125634	There was once a Social Democratic Councillor in Odense who stood up and said that I was not progressive, but that I was a reactionary, and then I stood up and said: thank you. And I would also like to thank Mr. Alex Vanopslagh. Well, the reason I've been able to make this speech at all is because the Liberal Alliance and Mr. Alex Vanopslagh has called for this debate on the important issue of young people's dissatisfaction, which has led us to discuss it more in depth. And there have been so many good, gifted speeches, and it has been a pleasure. Then I'm just gonna send the rose and the thanks back to mr. Alex Vanopslagh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325125709	Thank you. I heard there was no follow-up question. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. And then it's Mrs. Mette Thiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325125733	There is something wrong in Denmark. Children and young people's dissatisfaction is increasing and has increased dramatically since 2017. The government's overindulgence principles and the massive school closures under corona have made it worse. Unfortunately, the bill for over-intention and decommissioning has ended up in the children's room in more than one sense. Mental health for us humans is important. It is important for our quality of life, for us to live good lives and for us not to develop physical and mental illnesses. In short, mental health must ensure that we can cope with the bumps on the road that life is going to give us. Therefore, it is also deeply worrying when you can see such a massive increase in dissatisfaction in children and young people. The future generations are simply being prepared worse for life, they are badly dressed for it, and it is not sustainable. In New Citizens we want a different path from the present one. We want a more free and civil society. In a more bourgeois society, families have more freedom to live as they please. They have more money for themselves after tax and more free choices, and therefore they also experience more harmony in everyday life. It is contrary to socialism how high taxes pay for institutions that take care of our loved ones, while there is no place for the individual to create the life one wants. In a socialist society, politicians run down to the last detail in order to impose the equality that they place on the well-being of children, the elderly and the families. The aim is for family life to become easier for more people by giving freedom at all stages of life from childhood to old age, for parents to have more time with their children in the first important years, and for older people to have more freedom and self-determination as equal members of society. In order to improve the well-being of children and young people, of course, the state needs to fill less and families need to be stronger. Families must be strengthened through freedom under responsibility. They must be allowed to keep more of their own money and, at the same time, the community of values must be strengthened in civil society so that security and community are strengthened as the state fills less. It's the bourgeois road, and that's the way New Citizens will go. Because there is something really wrong in Denmark, but let us act now so that children and young people do not end up in the mud. We owe them that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325130030	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we have reached the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325130039	Thank you. As a Social Democrat, we are quite happy that New Citizens do not have the power of government on top of that speech. But this is a completely different debate. I would like to thank you very much for the prospects today. I think it has been extremely interesting because I think it is true what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says, namely that there are a great many questions that I think we all have on this agenda, and we must ask them and continue to be curious about what the answers can be. Then I find that, on some things, the waters are very different, for example. I simply think it is some notorious nonsense that the tax level in Denmark should have something to do with the distrust among young people. I think that is one of the most strange things I have actually heard in the debate, and I am going to think about it a lot, because it was a really different perspective anyway. And yes, at some point I would like to hear a little more about how you really see it, i.e. whether it is something that covers the whole Western world, and whether New Citizens have done some comparative analyses that the lower the tax burden in the respective Western countries, the more the young people thrive. There are all sorts of things that have been lost in translation in my head in this respect, but it was a new perspective, and I will go over it a little bit. I chose to get an overview in the ministry of what we have actually been doing in the field of children and education for the last few years, which has somehow affected this. These are very different methods, you might say, and the approach to what lies behind them. The first lump is about the economy, and it is important to me that there are enough adults, because that is what the economy reflects. In other words, on the specific subject of minimum standards, extra money has been given to more teachers in the public schools, and at the request of the support parties, extra money has been set aside for leisure education. That is what concerns the money and ensuring that there are actually enough adults in the large part of everyday life where children are in the institutional landscape. Then there is another part about all the children who need extra support. One of the things we have not discussed today is the whole area of inclusion, and I think that if we are going to discuss in a Danish context, where it is that there is distrust, it is, among other things, if you do not get the support and help you really need in connection with school day. Moreover, I believe that this is also the case if we were to discuss distrust among primary school teachers, that is where they are left with a task that they basically do not have the resources to deal with. So I believe that there is a problem of inclusion, which is why the government has set in motion an evaluation of inclusion and special educational assistance, and I may expect not so much of the reporting itself, but more of what has to follow afterwards, i.e. the debate on how we will tackle that area in the future. We have together, the parties in the Folketing, except for one, made an agreement on exactly this with how we catch some of the children who have the most difficulty in our society, namely those who go on day-care services and their educational services. So it can be said that some of what we might not have been able to touch on in this debate, but which I hope we can also spend some time on, is that part. Then I would say that I think we are going to go to this very, very many different avenues, and one of the roads that has not been touched in here at all, and I am actually a little surprised at that, because tax policy and all sorts of other things have been discussed, are the children who have always been misrepresented. One in ten children in Denmark goes home to a full parent after school. So when I start by saying that there is quite a difference between the well-being measurements, where you measure broadly the child's life, that is, in leisure, at home and all this, where things are not going so well, while in school it is actually relatively stable, it is because there are also some things on the home front that we do not have at all, including the alcohol abuse of parents. Now I don't remember the numbers in my head, but I think it's such a thing that one in six children has been beaten by their parents in the last month. We have a problem of violence in our society, which, moreover, also has an ethnic side, which is too rare for us to discuss with each other. The patterns of education in other parts of the world are, of course, taken along, but I also think that one should think a little about helping some parents learn to train after some different patterns than beating their children. So it is just to say that in addition there are hard divorces, there are children who grow up with mentally ill parents, one or both, and it can also be physical illness that affects the home a lot, and other social things. And that means that a large part of the distrust we are talking about is a real but thank you very much for the prospects. Now I just opened up some new issues here, but it could also have been all sorts of other things, such as the whole of health, which is at least as important to get along as well. I think that's what I have to say right now. Thank you for the debate to the Liberal Alliance and for the initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325130557	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. Sir. Alex Vanopslagh for the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325130607	Thank you. I'll be brief. I really just want to thank you all for a good discussion that I thought was interesting and instructive. There are, of course, a number of things we disagree with each other about; I do not want to dwell on that very much. I would like to try to highlight some of those things where I sense there might well be such a basic consensus on objectives and problems, if nothing else, but perhaps not so much in relation to the concrete solutions. But I hear that there is talk of strengthening the culture of authority... the goal must be that children can later become mature adults who can take responsibility in their own lives. We need to recreate a culture of skill, that is to say, really focused on the specific skills. I think it was sir. Jens Joel, who talked about the communities, that is, that we are something because of what we do with others. I think that is something on which we can all agree. Then perhaps we have some doubts as to whether community is something that arises in here or whether it is something that is out there in society. I also heard talk about this with the game and the joy, and that children should also be able to be children and have the freedom to do so. I also believe that we all agree on this with more freedom and responsibility in the individual schools, which several people mentioned. And we should also have some agreement that the family plays an important role. Then we can always discuss how to promote the family. So there are plenty of things here that I think are good. And what really characterizes them all is that this is not something we can legislate out of. That is not something we can achieve with target numbers; it is not something we can set up a task force and then solve. It may also be about having some humility as politicians about what we can solve ourselves. We can improve some frameworks and address some problems that might enable us to come to a better life and a better society. Of course, there are also some things on which we disagreed. I will not dwell on them, apart from one of them, on which I hope we will be able to reach agreement in the future. And that was a point, as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen came along with it, namely, and now I am poetrying a little further on it, I admit that we must remember how the welfare state and communism and socialism are helping to disband all the strong communities that are in culture, civil society and society in general. For if one has such a large and strong state that dissolves everything in society, then there are some irresponsible, liberated, detachable individuals left in spiritual poverty. I hope we can agree on that in the future. Laughter Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325130835	And that's what time has to show. Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220325130853	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. I would like to point out that the President of Ukraine, Zelenskyj, is expected to address the Members of Parliament in the Landstingshall on Tuesday, 29 March, at 3 p.m. 12.30. It will also be shown on the Danish Parliament's television. Immediately thereafter there will be a meeting here in the Danish Parliament at 6 p.m. 13.00. The agenda will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I am also referring to the weekly schedule set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
