ParlaMint-DK_20220520100002	The meeting is open. Paragraph 3 of the agenda, motion for a resolution on a trial scheme with a more equal representation of women on boards, motion for a resolution No. B-91 is deleted from today's agenda at the request of the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520100049	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 2 June 2022. We must first have the explanatory statement, and that is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Kasper Roug, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520100111	Thank you for that, President. This can be done relatively briefly, because the important thing is, of course, the debate itself. There is no doubt that this is, after all, an annual debate we have about the Kingdom Community, which is more important than ever. That is why, of course, it is also important this year that we have a debate on the state of the Kingdom community. Of course, I look forward to that very much. I would also like to thank the other parties for being so open and constructive that we should find a joint text for adoption. So I am very much looking forward to the debate, where, of course, we will be discussing the Kingdom community itself. That is the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520100151	Then we move on to the answer, and that is the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520100159	Thank you. Today it is the Kingdom Community that is under discussion. We in the government have a great focus on our cooperation between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland. I would like to say very clearly that in these years we have come even closer together. We're cooperating even more. We saw it during the corona crisis, and we see it now in a world that has fundamentally changed because of the security situation. There is war in Europe. On a tragic basis, Russia's invasion of Ukraine has highlighted the need to unite and speak more with one voice. Stand together, we do in the Kingdom community. The three of us agree that our cooperation with the United States and our cooperation in NATO is the foundation for the security of our peoples and countries. We also agree that Russia's invasion of a peaceful country calls for strong responses and strong unity. Of course, the new security policy situation in the world also affects the Arctic and the North Atlantic. This increases the need for even closer cooperation. In June last year, we agreed with the Home Government of the Faroe Islands and Naala Suisut to strengthen cooperation in foreign, security and defence matters. This autumn, as a follow-up, we established for the first time a foreign, security and defence contact committee at government level. The committee is a political superstructure on the day-to-day cooperation between our three countries. By sharing information, we gain common knowledge about how the world is developing and what a threat picture we are facing, and through strengthened political dialogue, we can learn more about what we need to take into account in order to safeguard the interests of all three countries. With the committee, a framework has also been created to deal with difficult matters, and I foresee more of them coming when areas belonging to the Faroe Islands and Greenland cross with what is foreign, security and defence policy. So far so good. Of course, we also have both broad and solid cooperation in a number of other areas of the Kingdom community. The year's account of the Kingdom community also bears witness to this. We're working together on climate change research... that's what the world needs... and to strengthen the green transition of our society, and it's urgent. The government has recently joined with Naalaksuisut to see if Denmark can contribute to the financing of the two major new hydroelectric projects in Greenland, which I personally find incredibly exciting. We are working together to resolve border barriers within the Kingdom community, and we will of course also work together to strengthen efforts in relation to Greenlandic children and young people. The war in Ukraine has consequences for all of us in the Kingdom community, including economic ones. Not least for the Faroe Islands, the war means, among other things, that they lose large parts of their export market. Last year, exports to Russia accounted for almost a quarter of total Faroese exports. So it can be felt. On the Danish side, we support the Faroe Islands in their desire for closer cooperation with the European Union, and at all levels we do what we can to promote the Faroe Islands' cause in Brussels. Both the Faroe Islands and Greenland's economy have progressed, I would like to say. There was, of course, a brake on the coronapandemic, but now the situation is different. In both countries there is pressure on the labour market, unemployment in all three countries is fortunately low and we all lack labour. In the Faroe Islands, a public finance deficit is expected this year, although there is a high level of economic activity, and in Greenland there is budgeting with balance on public budgets after there has been a deficit over the years with corona. In the slightly longer term, however, both countries continue to face major unresolved challenges in ensuring fiscal sustainability. Earlier this year, I gave an official apology to the 22 Greenlandic children... the experimental children... who were sent to Denmark in 1951. We cannot change the mistakes of the past, but we can relate to them, and we must do so. We have to take responsibility, and the government has done so. I hope that with it we have had a dignified end to a dark chapter in our common history, and I would also recommend that we continue to speak openly and nuancedly about the past, because only by facing it can we understand our present and set a common new direction for our future. Knowledge of our common history is of course important, but it is at least as important that there is also a common knowledge of today's society and of today's kingdom community, of developments, of the people and peoples we are, and of course also of living conditions in our three respective countries. That is why a number of initiatives have now been launched to increase our knowledge of the Kingdom Community, and that is what is needed. The initiatives are aimed specifically at children and young people, i.e. those who are going to carry on the Kingdom community. It's all about everything from study trips to high school stays and to production of documentary films about the Faroe Islands and Greenland. I would like to say that, seen with Danish eyes and glasses, it is absolutely crucial that our children have a greater knowledge of both Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and this must be done in primary school. I also hope and look forward to further developing this cooperation. With those words of introduction, I look forward to today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520100725	Thank you. Now it is the case that there is a possibility of a First, it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520100734	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister. I've suffered with my voice... my voice is a little tired, because I just came from Greenland yesterday. I would like to express my thanks for the courage shown by the Prime Minister when she apologized to the experimental children. And I would also like to say that we see that there are more and more cases being rolled up and that we have to deal with the last was the spiral campaign. I would like to hear how the Prime Minister will, overall, work for reconciliation between the two countries, where Denmark is also engaged. Because it is not my experience that we have put an end to this, but we have really opened up a story we have to dare to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520100814	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520100815	Yes, when I use the word period, it is in relation to the experimental children, where I hope we have helped to give the peace that has never been achieved in the past. It has been important both with an explanation, but also with an apology. I have felt this both at the excuse engagement that was made here in Copenhagen at the National Museum, but in particular in Nuuk. I must also say that that day in Nuuk made a very, very great impression on me, because I very much agree with what was said: there were even more stories opening up, too, things that I myself had no knowledge of. After all, I am one of those who cares about the kingdom community and have read a lot about Greenland's history, and just that day I almost gained more knowledge than I have been able to read about even more tragic stories and even more problems in our common past. I am of the very clear conviction that we can only move forward in an equal and orderly manner if we dare face the past. So I would suggest that we continue to work together to bring forward what has happened in our past.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520100919	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520100921	Thank you for that, and thank you for your statement, thank you for your speech. I can quite recognise what the Prime Minister said that there is good cooperation, there is a good dialogue. Thank you for that, thank you for meeting the interests of the Faroe Islands and not using security policy to make decisions on behalf of the Faroe Islands, but leaving it to the Faroese Home Rule Government to decide what to do, even in relation to Russia, even though it is really a security policy. This benefits the good dialogue and the good relationship. The Prime Minister said that Denmark is doing everything possible to promote the Faroe Islands' cause in Brussels. This is, of course, a very important matter, especially when you lose a very large export market. Could the Prime Minister perhaps say a little more about how this is going on and where the matter of getting better access to the market in the European Union stands?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101017	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101020	Yes, it is part of market access and I believe that we have a huge common interest, not only in the Faroe Islands and Denmark, but throughout the European Union, in bringing the Faroe Islands closer to the European Union and the European Community. It is about exports and trade, but it is also about even closer cooperation. We are in dialogue with the Commission on this and I am in dialogue with my Faroese colleagues on how best to do it. That's everything else would be weird too. But it has been said so that it cannot be misunderstood; it has been said clearly and clearly. Now it is also a question of getting, one might say, some concrete results out of that movement, and we are in full swing with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101112	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101119	Thank you. Thank you for your statement. I would like to ask a few questions about the strategy work. I think we had a good conference down in the Common Hall almost two years ago, where we had discussions with our colleagues from Greenland and the Faroe Islands. There was a great expectation that we could now move on. I know that Greenland, in particular, would like to have their own strategy in place first, but I think it is strange that we do not continue the dialogue and that we do not continue the discussion on individual issues, because if parliamentarians do not talk any more, it will be such polite things, and then it will be a government project to draw up a strategy, and I do not think it should be when it is the Kingdom community that we are talking about. That is where I think we should continue the dialogue between parliamentarians and not just stop it. We're gonna be the last to come up with a strategy on this planet, and it looks like it's gonna look like it. The EU and all sorts of others have created Arctic strategies.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101219	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101221	It can be said that what I am responsible for now is the cooperation of the governments, and that is where we have strengthened the ties. There is a standing contact committee, we meet more often, and we talk more closely. If there is a desire to do the same parliamentary thing, I think we should do it. I believe that the more people talk across parliaments, know each other and have common analyses and a common look at things, the better it is, so I would only welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101248	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101250	Thank you for your statement. I can start by confirming that we have a dialogue with the foreign policy committees both in Greenland and the Faroe Islands in order to make some form of format. I also very much agree with what the Prime Minister has said. I come back to that in my speech, namely that one has to have a look at the past in order to look forward. What I want to tackle from the Prime Minister's speech is what matters how important it is to get to know each other better. One of the areas which I may feel we have neglected over the years is the very large group of Greenlanders who are in Denmark. Some came here for a short time, at post-school, high school or study visits, others live here permanently. There you have, you might say, a huge group of people who know both communities and who play an important role in the dialogue. Some of the same could be said of Danes in Greenland for that matter. I may feel that we have lacked a policy, and there are some challenges here too. We have the discussion about the forced removal of Greenlandic children, which is currently filling a lot, including in the Greenlandic media, and other things. Is this a focus area we might imagine the government was also looking at?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101358	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101400	Yes, indeed. I think we should stick to the fact that the vast majority of people from Greenland who choose to settle in Denmark for a short time or for a longer period of time live a normal and good life here, i.e. people who have Greenlandic roots, but who are a fully integrated part of the Danish society and contribute to us. This also applies to Danes who travel to Greenland, and to others who travel across our kingdom community. I do not know whether we really should make a policy for it, because if it works, I just think that things should be allowed to run. What I think we need to pay attention to is that it may be harder to come here as a Greenlandic student than you might think. If you want a look at it, you can read the Blomster Valley, which provides a good insight into something in Greenlandic society, but also in Danish society. So I think there may be a need for a focus on young people who come here, and then there is no doubt that we have a group of very vulnerable Greenlandic citizens that we simply have not been able to look after well enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101453	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101455	The Prime Minister spoke about the Contact Committee in a couple of rounds, and I think that is a very good invention, a good innovation. But could the Prime Minister put a little more words on the visions that lie in that forum? Well, what's the dynamic in that? And what is the future of it? Because from the outside, it's as if there's not quite so much going on. Then the Prime Minister could put a few more words on what the prospects are for the Contact Committee and what initiatives she sees in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101522	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101524	There is what happens in the Contact Committee, which we have agreed with each other, namely that we meet firmly, not only the leaders of the three countries, but also foreign ministers, defence ministers and others. And that offers an opportunity that we have not had in the past to have a very, very close and direct dialogue on some of the often difficult foreign policy issues too. We will meet next time in the Faroe Islands, in 2-3 weeks' time, and it is clear that it will be the war in Ukraine and the consequences of it that will be our focal point. The vision of the whole thing is precisely to have real cooperation, where it is not just a question of informing, as it may have done in the past, but where it is a question of real cooperation and, as I said in the speech, of knowing with each other what is the difficult thing for the three countries, because that makes it so much easier to deal with when a political process is subsequently to be organised in one area or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101623	Sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101625	Thank you. Thank you for your statement and thank you for the Prime Minister's interest in the Kingdom Community. And I would say that in my time as a member of parliament, I have sensed that interest in the Kingdom community has increased and increased and not diminished on the part of this government. Thank you. The cooperation that has recently been established and whose first meeting is to be in the Faroe Islands, at government level, is absolutely positive. We then lack the parliamentary level, and we must then work on that too; it is perhaps more Parliament's job to do so. My question is also in relation to the European Union. The Prime Minister mentioned that Faroese exports to Russia were around 25% and that it was completely lost and that the Faroe Islands turned their eyes to the EU and the large market. What news is there in this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101739	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101741	We are in close dialogue with the European Union and the Commission on this cooperation. After all, it is no secret that the whole of European cooperation has had its eyes fixed on the war in Ukraine in recent times. So what I can say is that there is an ongoing dialogue on how we develop and get this cooperation anchored even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101803	Then it's mr. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101811	Thank you for that and thank you to the Prime Minister for the statement. In fact, it is a follow-up to Mr. Christian Juhl's question. Because we did the last Arctic strategy in 2011, and it expired in 2020, and it can be said that the world has become very different, including in the Arctic, since then. Now we are three years into the government period, and last year we were also told that it was on the right track. So I would like the Prime Minister to say a little more about whether we are soon expecting something to come during the government period, because we think that it could send a strong signal, also to the outside world, that we are really united on that cooperation in the Kingdom community, if we could agree on an Arctic strategy. So is there some timeline for when we hope something can come?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101851	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101854	Of course, I also have a desire for a common Arctic strategy, but there has been a desire from the new government in Greenland to have some time to do its own internal work in Greenland before we make a common Arctic strategy, which we have at least chosen from the government to accept.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101907	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520101912	First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the good cooperation we also experience between the social democratic parties through the parts of the country. I also think it is important, when we talk about reconciliation between the countries, to point out that we have had former prime ministers for Denmark who have refused to do a joint reconciliation work with Greenland, where Greenland had to stand alone, even if it takes two to do such a job. I would therefore also like to pay tribute to the courage it requires to take the first step as Danish Prime Minister on behalf of Denmark towards real reconciliation by among others. to apologize for this, and for the great respect that comes with, among other things. respect that Greenland would like to have its own Arctic strategy, instead of just dumping it in the head of them, as we have almost experienced it in the past. I would actually like to ask a little about the climate cooperation that has also been talked about, precisely because the climate is a very important part of the work of Greenlandic society and how we work together on it, not only through the Kingdom Community, but also at a foreign policy level.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520102019	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520102021	Thank you for that question. We had a very good collaboration in the Kingdom Community up to COP26 in Glasgow. I also believe that this is the first time that we have chosen to fill the Kingdom Community against a COP. We went to Glasgow together. I think I'm sending a strong signal, also to the rest of the world. And then we now have a concrete collaboration in relation to hydropower, which is a fairy tale in my view in relation to renewable energy in Greenland. I think it is right to say that one thing is what we can work together on within the kingdom community, but as a kingdom community we can also fill on the international stage, both because Greenland is the visualisation of how wrong things are going and how fast the ice is melting and destroying Greenland and destroying the rest of the globe in reality, but also because we are well advanced with renewable energy and we have some pretty strong natural resources. Greenland has water, we have wind; then we can also help to show how we can take some of the necessary decisions to meet the climate change that, if allowed to continue, will be absolutely devastating to Greenland's society. So, for many reasons, we need to resolve that climate crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520102123	Thank you, Prime Minister. We have reached the round, and now we are going to start with the rapporteur's speeches, and that also applies to the normal rules for short remarks. We start with the North Atlantic mandates. First, it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520102155	Thank you. This speech was made in Nuuk on a cold spring morning, where the frost and sun fought, so that the last convulsions of winter were finally overpowered, and we had a long-awaited spring and the warmth that came from the sun. It is cold in Greenland this year, and when the snow falls again, you sense how clear people are this summer, which is understandable enough. This week more than 400 people participated in Future Greenland, including some of our colleagues here in the Chamber. The future of Greenland defines us, the Greenlandic people, and there is a clear desire to open up Greenland to international cooperation and, above all, to strengthen our trade with other countries. Therefore, Naalaksuisut is now in the process of drawing up a foreign and security policy strategy to set a clear strategic direction for our cooperation with other countries. The expectation is that it will be ready this summer, and then we will get on with the kingdom's Arctic strategy. 90% Greenland's foreign policy should be about strengthening trade and exports with other countries. It is also thought-provoking that the United States is becoming the largest export market for Greenland. These are new times and it also shows that the link between foreign policy and industrial policy is becoming clearer and clearer. This also means that it is important to respect, of course, Greenland's right to self-determination in its own repatriated territories. One of the most important conclusions I brought from Future Greenland is that we need to ensure that there is a clear strategy for the development of defence, even when we are talking about the Arctic, also at home in Greenland. There needs to be a clear line on green energy and on tourism. In defence with a future defence settlement, it goes without saying that we need a clear defence policy line and that it is important that it is Greenland that helps to set it. In the field of tourism, we know that the new runways will come in 2024 both in Ilulissat and in Nuuk, but the runways do not mean that the tourist adventure will come on its own. It is important, even when we look at the current figures for the increased number of tourists, that we get into work clothes and use knuckle fat in order to ensure that there is cooperation both locally and internationally in terms of developing tourism with a particular focus on quality tourism. In relation to green energy, power-to-x is on everyone's lips at international conferences, and in connection with Greenland's desire to develop hydrogen for export and the desire for more wind and hydropower energy, we also need to talk about professionalisation of the area. Today, a lot of it is centralized around Nukissiorfiit, our national energy company, but it will also be difficult when it is a net-controlled company that will help ensure that this is an export adventure for Greenland, so there is also a need to make some political decisions, and I am really glad that the government has concluded this agreement, where you will see if you can contribute especially in connection with hydropower. The cooperation between Greenland and Denmark is still needed and there is no doubt about that. But Greenland is also more oriented towards Iceland and Canada. Greenland recently visited Iceland's Prime Minister, and Iceland has previously made 99 recommendations on how to have closer cooperation between Iceland and Greenland. It is new to me and it is becoming more and more concrete, both when we are talking about Iceland, but also when we are talking about Canada. It's obvious when you're home in Greenland. This also means that the need to get up on the Danish side is increasingly urgent. Many areas have still been seriously neglected. Border barriers and a two-dollar list in particular in transport are shameful, but I know that the Minister for Transport will soon be coming to Greenland, and I know that she will be very busy. In Greenland we have not had a car vision for nearly 20 years, and there is a need for legislation on snowmobiles, ATVs and many other areas in the transport sector which require that we also give it more political attention. On the positive side, I would like to commend the government for prioritising the entry into force of the consent law for Greenland. Only a year ago it came into force for Denmark, and I really think that is how we should deal with all laws. It also opens up a discussion about whether there should be automation, so that when laws are updated in Denmark, you are also aware of updating the laws in Greenland. This makes up with the practice that has been where Greenlandic laws are updated 10-15 years later. One specific example, which I think is shameful at least, and which I think we should bear in mind, is that the legislation on abortion dates back to 1975. Well, it's been almost 50 years since an abortion law was made in Greenland. This is simply an area in which we need to ensure that it is updated more quickly and that it is, of course, up to date. All of this helps to ensure that we equate Greenland and Denmark; it helps to contribute to an increased equality. In the last few weeks, DR has had a theme about Greenland. Podcast, discussion programmes and, not least, the new documentary • The history of Greenland and Denmark has focused on Greenland. And the timing is good, and it's important. Earlier this year the Prime Minister gave an official apology to the so-called experimental children, both here in Denmark and in Nuuk. It was a touching day, an important day and a historic day. And what could look like an end to a nasty chapter in our common history was not, but it opened up the beginning of hopefully a reconciliation between Greenland and Denmark. The apology ended with the image of Denmark as the good colonial master and opened up a new and more equal relationship between Greenland and Denmark because we felt seen and we felt heard. What had happened was not in order, and it was not only us from Greenland who saw it and recognized it; the top elected representatives from Denmark did so now too. So I would like to send a special thanks to the Prime Minister for having the courage to give an official apology. In a common history, reconciliation should be mutual and involve both parties. It is not just one country that can reconcile itself in a relationship between two parties. That is why I would like to call on the Prime Minister today to see the experimental children and our common history in a broader perspective. In addition to the experimental children, I can mention legal orphans, illegal adoptions and the spiral campaign. We need to be able to connect the dots in order to see the bigger picture, and we need a constructive reconciliation and this time one where Denmark is engaging. It should not be like back in 2015, when fingers were pointed and spoken condescendingly, including from Greenland. But it should be a joint project with a goal of greater equality and a more equal future in mind. One might consider whether there should be a Commission of Truth which presented us with the chapters of the common history from which we need to learn, so that we do not repeat the stupidities and the mistakes, but make better and wiser decisions. It leads up to the knowledge issue that IA has come up with, because we want more knowledge of each other to be needed. It's awkward when you know a lot about Denmark in Greenland, but you don't know much about Greenland in Denmark. I would really like there to be a greater focus on Greenland both in schools and in high schools, but also in the media. And yes, we have seen it in the last few weeks, but it is not necessarily continuous that there is this focus on Greenland, and sometimes it is almost coincidental that there are things coming about Greenland. So let's look at how we can perhaps both look at the legislation, but also look at how we strengthen knowledge about Greenland in both a school reconciliation and a media reconciliation. And I would urge that there should be a special focus on children and young people, because they see it both in primary and secondary schools and in schools, for example. Ramasjang, I think it will also strengthen the relationship between Greenland and Denmark in the long run. And I believe that we have a strategic responsibility, but also an interest and a desire, in terms of knowing something more about each other, because in this way we can ensure that equality is strengthened and that, hopefully, we will also have good cooperation in the future. In those words, thank you. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103113	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103121	Thanks for one, I think, really interesting and good speech. You could ask a lot of questions, and I'll come back to some of them. I was with Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen in Greenland this time and attended the same conference and also left Nuuk, I must say, with a feeling that there is a rapid development in Greenland at the moment and many positive elements. But also with some realizations to which I come back in my speech, both about the past and about the future. But one of the things that struck me most this time after having participated in the two-day conference was that all of us who dream of creating more investment and a greater economic activity, which could also provide a basis for greater independence in the economic area in particular, are shortages of labour, with which we are also troublesome here in Denmark, but where there is still a larger labour market to take off, one can say, and also a larger approach of foreign labour. And if you want to do hydropower and I think it's fabulous that we've set that work in motion and if you want to do better social work, you need employees. What can we do?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103232	First of all, I want to say that one of the things I'm fighting for is that we bring out modern Greenland, especially in the media picture, right? Because I would like some news shows where something more came about Greenland. And especially modern Greenland, because if we only have the historical look, we will regenerate some prejudices. I would like to repeat that point. In relation to the shortage of labour, I think that in the long run it is about educating some more people in Greenland, and I also think that as an employer in Greenland you will always hire some people who have Greenlandic background and who are skilled and stable and good employees, because this creates some continuity. But Greenland also has to recognise that we will always need some outside labour. And quite specifically, a fast-track system is something that I think we need to ensure even better. Because we have made a scheme, but it is not as fast as we really wanted, so the automation, as I know there is in the Faroe Islands, is one of the things you could look at in such a concrete way to improve.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103329	Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103335	Yes, I very much agree that getting modern Greenland, I almost said, realised in Denmark, is an incredibly important thing. I also agree that education is crucial, as in Denmark, and a key question is how to get more Greenlanders with the right qualifications into the Greenland labour market. It's also one of the hardest things... let's be honest about it... both because of a language discussion, but also because of a social discussion. And I do not know whether Denmark can contribute here, or some other things can happen that can help solve that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103409	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103412	Thank you very much. I believe that the very early effort from 0 to 3 years will make a huge difference in Greenlandic society, including where we are not so many people. I really think that there are quite a lot of advantages in living in some small places where we typically also know people, and it might be super interesting to turn it into an outreach social effort instead of sitting around waiting for matters to come up on a caseworker's table. So I really think social innovation could help to shift Greenland's society both in the social field and also in the field of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103444	Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103450	Thank you. The rapporteur spoke of the age of abortion legislation in Greenland, which dates back to 1975, an old Danish law, I understand. How specifically does the rapporteur want it to be changed in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103501	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103509	There are a little two ways to go. Either you can enter into a dialogue between the Naala Suisut and the government to ensure that all laws are really raised to the level and that everyone is up to date. Alternatively, you can choose to look specifically at abortion legislation and then ensure that it is at least updated. Because we have a lot of abortions in Greenland. Actually, we have more abortions than births. So this is an area we need to look at. Alternatively, you could also look at whether it was an area you would like to take home, and there is a part of family law that may in fact be better solved in Greenland. Perhaps this is the principle that the closer to the citizen, the decision on how it is to be carried out, the better it is done. I think this is particularly true in the area of family law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103551	Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103554	Thank you for your answer. Yes, I thought that one thing is formal legislation on abortion and another is the area of abortion, and now the rapporteur himself said that there are a great many abortions in Greenland. Does the rapporteur think that we should have legislation aimed at reducing the number and helping women in all possible ways, so that in the long term the number of abortions can be reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103620	My experience is that everyone in Greenland across parties is for free abortion, and I would also like to say that I am a very, very strong advocate of that. This is something that we have always had and something that I will fight for at any time. But I think we need to have a debate on how we can ensure that, in particular, the number of unwanted pregnancies is reduced, because that is what is the interesting thing. There I think it is important that we in Greenland take greater responsibility for ensuring that we have the debate, but that we also talk about how we can update the abortion legislation to suit reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103653	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103701	Thank you. I was mostly hung up on the fact that the rapporteur wants it to apply automatically to Greenland when we amend Danish law. But is there not really a dilemma in that? We have often discussed with each other that Greenland would like to make its own laws, and that, to the extent that it fits with Greenlandic culture and interests, one can associate with one another, but that one would otherwise like to make one's own laws. How do you solve that dilemma? Because just copying Danish legislation is not enough. I think we'll have problems in Greenland if we do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103743	Thank you for that, and also thank you for bringing that nuance, because it's super important. I met with Greenland's Bar Association when I was in Nuuk the previous time, and some of what they want is that there are more parliamentary laws. This means that it is laws written from a Greenlandic need from the bottom up, rather than there are these royal devices, which are actually a Danish law, which we make a copy of, and where we typically pick out some rights and do it these 10-15 years later. So, yes, I think there is a need for an overall debate on what are some areas where we want there to be parliamentary laws and where we want there to be automation of various devices. I think that is an exciting and important discussion to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103811	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103825	Yes, because it could be just as exciting if Greenland said that we need legislation for the whole Kingdom community that will look like that. There I sometimes see that Greenland and also the Faroe Islands are somewhat reluctant to say that we think that the Kingdom community should be set up in this way and that we therefore think that we should have a common law that says so and so. I think it could be exciting if we developed that discussion, because then it was an equal common kingdom where we all invited in with laws, and it is usually from the Danish ministers who come proposals for laws.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103847	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103854	When I was on stage for Future Greenland, and I believe that those of my colleagues who were with me can confirm this, I said that it is a bit an experience, especially in the field of legislation, that Denmark is waiting for Greenland and that Greenland is waiting for Denmark and that in the meantime nothing really happens. I think we need to talk about who is actually responsible and, as a starting point, I think that it is we who are interested in it and that it is we who should take the initiative. And of course that is also why, if automation takes place, we have to discuss that there must somehow be some principles laid down over what Naala Suisut can see himself in. But the discussion is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103922	Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520103935	Thank you for an exciting speech, and I would like to say in particular on the media side. Now, of course, it is very topical with the negotiations that are currently taking place that it is a problem for our democracy to take decisions in relation to the Kingdom community that there is so little news coverage of what is happening in the Kingdom community, so full support for that part of the speech. I would like to ask a little something else because of the rapporteur's role as President of the Arctic Parliamentarians, i.e. whether the rapporteur can say a little about how she views the situation in the Arctic Council and what it means for the Kingdom community that the other countries have withdrawn because they do not want to cooperate with Russia. What does this mean for your work as Arctic parliamentarians from the Kingdom Community, perhaps especially from a Greenlandic perspective, but actually also for the whole Kingdom community? In the eyes of the rapporteur, how are we going to deal with the situation that has arisen in the Arctic Council in the future, and what consequences can this have?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104014	Thank you for the question. I would say that it has been very, very clear, as the Prime Minister also said, that a broad majority in Greenland supports Greenland's membership of NATO, and Greenland is also on the side of the West in relation to the war in Ukraine. And it affects us in the Arctic, of course, in a different way than it does in Denmark, one can say, but it is also important that we take that responsibility. It is important to emphasise this point. In Arctic Parliamentarians, we have chosen to resume our work, but informally, because we believe that the climate crisis, for example. can't wait for the war in Ukraine to be over. There is a need for the cooperation that there is on the things on which we are, after all, quite agreed between the other seven countries, and we need to resume that, but it will be without Russia, and it has also been announced to Russia. So we have not received a feedback, and I know that there are three people blacklisted by the Russians, and I do not know if I am on the list myself. But we have to dare to have the courage to ensure that we can work together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104116	Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104119	Thank you for that answer. Does the rapporteur think that this is something that will become permanent? Or can we get something up without Russia? And are we in line with the other countries in relation to the fact that we will continue? Or are there different attitudes in the circle about how this is going to go forward?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104141	Thank you very much. My experience is clear that we are in line and that was extremely clear to me when I had bilateral meetings with the individual Members and our colleagues in the various parliaments. And next May, Norway will take over the presidency of the Arctic Council, and I think it is necessary to decide whether to resume work without Russia. In any case, this is a discussion that I think needs to be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104207	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104213	The conference Future Greenland, which was held last week in Nuuk, has been mentioned a few times, and I myself had great pleasure in participating. One of the things I would like to take forward here is whether I could ask Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen to put a few more words on the major theme of airports. In addition to the fact that Denmark naturally has an interest in Greenland having a self-sustaining economy, Denmark will also be co-financing by the airports. We are building the airports, while the infrastructure behind it is obviously lacking. In other words, hotel capacity has been acquired, but after hotel capacity there is a lack of the network of companies to send tourists to experience the things they want to experience. So how do we get past just building airports, which are basically just installations on the ground? Because that's not what creates something in itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104258	Thank you. One of the things I heard at Future Greenland, which I thought was quite thought-provoking, was that you expect only 2%. more tourists with the new runways. I haven't confirmed this number, but I think it's thought-provoking. And that is why I am saying that there is a huge amount of work to be done in the future. When you hear at the same time that all hotel capacity in Ilulissat has actually been exhausted the year out, there is a need for us to think about in terms of securing both accommodations and, in other words, that there are some offers for the many tourists we really want, but that we are also talking much more about branding. It is the case that Denmark has committed itself to these airports and also has a third of the ownership of Galasiak Airport, and I think that, as a matter of fact, we need to talk a little about how we ensure that it is not just some nice runways that lie, but that we are really creating some growth on the basis of these runways. And there is therefore a huge piece of work for Greenland, first and foremost, but also in a dialogue with Denmark on how we can strengthen this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104359	Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104402	Yeah, but exactly. So what is it that we can help each other to move on, because there is no one who is interested in just landing somewhere and then entering a hotel. Now the hotel capacity is missing, so we risk first and foremost from Greenland standing here with a huge investment. It is, of course, a huge investment in such a Greenlandic economic context. So how do we move on? Is it by further cooperation between companies in Denmark, or should it be at the political level? Because as things stand now, I think it looks almost dangerous, that is to say that we have airports without being able to absorb the tourists that are supposed to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104438	First of all, I would like to see Greenlandic companies taking the initiative as well, but also investors from outside helping to support the projects. But I think branding is really the answer to what Karsten Hønge is calling for. I have previously and by last Finance Act included that I think we need to ensure some branding, but it was perhaps just a tooth too soon because the runways were not finished until 2024. But branding should invest some money in securing, because we are also in competition with Iceland, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104506	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104513	The rapporteur referred to the Commission for Reconciliation, which in 2013 was also under the leadership of Siumut, a project launched with Siumut, Atassut and Partii Inuit, which is why it is also gratifying to hear Inuit Ataqatigiit stand here and say that there has been a need and that it is important that it is also taken from both sides. It was also said from the rapporteur's point of view that, back in 2015, fingers were pointed and spoken condescendingly, including from Greenland, and I had hoped to have a slightly more detailed comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104548	Thank you very much. Firstly, I think it is important that we do it differently, because I do not think it was a good way. The former president of the national government, the chairman of Naalaksuisut, Aleqa Hammond, said at the time that the only good thing we have got out of Denmark is to make brown sauce. I find that condescending and, as a Greenlander, I do not think it was the way to do it. The fact that the Danish Government chose to say that they do not want to participate is a pity to me, but I think that is also an expression of the rhetoric that we are doing ourselves. It is thus a desire to bridge the gap between Denmark and Greenland and to say: let us do it in a different way, and let us of course say that it is something that has happened in the past that we do not want to repeat. We have this case of forced housing for Greenlandic children on which we have taken an initiative for a hearing and which I know Siumut has allocated some money for a study on where it is also important that we do not repeat some mistakes because we are not aware of language and culture. So I think there are some threads that are pulling up to today that we have to deal with, but I also know that Inatsisartut has said that we have to look at the Reconciliation Commission again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104652	Thank you. Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104656	That is quite right, and we must also support Inatsisartut, and I also know that both our parties are working together on precisely a truth and reconciliation commission at the moment. So all I want to say is that we have to stand together in this. And then I also have a small footnote that later it has also come out, that the then Sisumut leader said it during a dinner as a joke, since she herself was happy to make brown sauce.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104726	Thank you very much. As far as I know, it was presented as part of a public lecture, and I just do not think that is conducive to good cooperation. I think it is thought-provoking that when we do a job with good professionals who make a number of recommendations, we ourselves, of course, have a responsibility to follow up on the good recommendations that there are and there I think there is still some way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104753	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we are moving forward. Now it's Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520104811	The Kingdom community does not exist. Today we have a Community debate in the Danish Parliament, but the Kingdom Community does not exist at all. It makes it sound as if we have federal cooperation between three equal states, which is not at all the case, as if we have entered into multilateral cooperation which has secured Mutual Benefit agreements for decades, but that is not the construction that exists. Instead, we are living in a relic of the kingdom of Danish colonial history... a story that has mainly been written by for As a perpetrator who thoroughly documents why it was now that all the abuses that had been committed had occurred for very special reasons in the best sense... vile acts wrapped in decorated words and self-righteousness... but no matter how you wrap it in, the consequences for the Greenlandic population are still the same. During these years you may have already figured that out, but that is why I can say it aloud anyway I am not here to praise the history of the so-called Kingdom Community. You're really good at that yourself. No, I'm here to share the history of kalaallits/inuits... a version that doesn't always please the Danish people... who suddenly take away the role of an Arctic hero from a perspective with Greenlandic glasses that had been overheard and shushed time and time again. It is therefore important that we recognise the value of the Greenlandic tale. For years Denmark has stuck to the story of Denmark as the good coloniser, but after countless brave kalaallit/inuit has stood up and expressed itself, several brave journalists from both Greenland and Denmark have begun to dig into the truth about our common history. Back in the 1950s and onwards, Denmark introduced a policy to integrate Greenland as an equal part of the Danish kingdom. The decision was that the kingdom would consist of one country, one language, one people. In order to succeed, it was important that the Greenlanders knew their place and that you could be rewarded in a system if you were Danish or were Danish enough. This resulted in one hideous political action after another, and just to give just a few examples: Abductions of Greenlandic children who were deprived of their families to make them Danish; other children who simply disappeared, whose parents never consented to adoption, and as you know, a number of Greenlandic children became part of an experiment. The birth-place criterion was introduced, which was a racist and oppressive law, which meant that Greenlanders should be paid less than Danes in Greenland. Legally fatherless children were born in the Danish kingdom • a kingdom which had decided to protect the Danish craftsmen who came to Greenland and had children • children to whom the fathers should have no human responsibility whatsoever, but one had to take into account the husbands' marriages at home in Denmark. Forced shut downs of active, well-functioning cities so families and friends were split in all directions; the spiral scandal in which Denmark decided to force girls as young as 13 years of age to have a primitively developed spiral just to save money by reducing the rising birth rate in Denmark, which ended with sterilization for many. And I could keep the mirror up in front of you: child abductions in the best sense, economic racial discrimination in the best sense, genocide in the best sense. Regardless of how you have turned and turned and decorated the history book, all the traumas, all these consequences are not something that just lies with a few people. It lies like a heavy duvet in the population, and yet the robust kalaallit/inuit is one of the strongest people in history. We from Greenland are even strong enough to forgive and move on, and we have expressed this time and again. However, in order to process the dark chapters of our history, it is also important that both sides recognise what has really happened without decoration and cover. In 2013, Greenland wanted a Reconciliation Commission between Greenland and Denmark, which was to uncover and help people move on. Nevertheless, the then Prime Minister announced that Denmark would not participate. Greenland had to be left alone with a reconciliation, but it goes without saying that two parties cannot be reconciled when one refuses to participate. You almost want to ask yourself what it was that Denmark was so afraid of. That is why it was a great honour for me to be a witness when the Social Democratic Prime Minister, during his first opening speech for the year 2019, gave a hug after my request for an apology and subsequently from the platform said that the apology would be given. She took the first right step towards reconciliation from the Danish side. Everything is not only dark and gloomy. Times are evolving, but it is our own responsibility today to keep that development going. There is a lot of work to be done because there is still a long way to go for real work on truth and reconciliation. We must no longer decorate history to unrecognizability. On the other hand, we must learn from history. We must be able to understand what we could have done better, and we must develop. In order to prevent an inappropriate repetition of history, I would like, among other things, to say something. point out that the Greenlandic children in Denmark are forcibly removed seven times more often than in Danish families. These children risk losing their language, our culture, our identity. Once again we stand Greenlanders and lose our children in today's Denmark. Some would argue that it is just Greenlandic parents who cannot take responsibility for their own children. And I would like to acknowledge that there may be cases where placements are appropriate. But it is also worth noting that the types of testing that include. is used to assess parents' competences, neither taking into account the linguistic or cultural differences between Denmark and Greenland, which also emerged this week's DR, namely in P1 morning broadcasts. I have personally spoken to quite a number of Greenlandic children who have now also been placed outside the home. Unfortunately, it is a characteristic of all of them that they are experiencing racism and that they are experiencing loss of language and culture. Here it is our job to ensure two things. Firstly, the legal certainty of parents must be in order before they choose to place the child. And secondly, that the child is not subjected to racism or loses its source on the basis of this placement. We simply need to create a better future for future generations, and if it is up to me, we must be able to write a completely different story in the specialist books from today on. We must be able to write that from the year that the Prime Minister apologized for the so-called experimental children, we started the first small steps towards real reconciliation between the countries. It must be said that the story of honesty, goodwill and shared responsibility began to become a strong and beautifully equal cooperation. It's a lot of work, it was a lot of work. But in fact, it could easily be done together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105602	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105608	The rapporteur's analysis of the Danes' ills also mentioned the word genocide. I would like that to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105621	It is on the basis of the UN definition of genocide where there are five definitions, including among others. That a population is deprived of language, identity, but also that it is beginning to make a point of making sure that the population is no longer able to reproduce, which is among other things. is part of the spiral scandal I also mentioned. It was a sudden drop of 40%. in the Greenlandic population, and the only reason we heard from the Danish Parliament's platform at that time was that you wanted to make savings. This led, among other things, to the introduction of a primitive spiral around their parents' or their own consent by the Greenlandic children as young as 13 years of age. And these definitions have been crucial for me to use that very concept.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105715	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105717	I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the Danes have committed genocide in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105725	Yes, if it was not clear enough, I can say: yes, I think it is clear that genocide was committed in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105736	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105740	Now we're somewhere else on the drama scale with what I want to ask. It is about the green transformation of Greenlandic society. In Nuuk and in most other Greenlandic cities, half of the car park runs less than 10 km on the liter, and the liter price of petrol in Greenland today is 5.5 DKK. How can this be in keeping with the fact that at the same time it is one of the countries that bears some of the greatest costs of global warming?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105812	I think it is very important that we look at the climate. I also think it is important that we all take joint responsibility for this, because if we look at the world's climate footprint, we can see that Greenland is very low on the list of countries. But when we look at the fact that there are too many cars in Nuuk, for example, we also have to include more aspects. Let us say that we would like to see more electric cars, which has also been discussed in the House of Inatsisartut. In this context, it is problematic if electric cars cannot even drive properly in frosty weather, and if suddenly there is a fire in electric cars, which ultimately risks harming Greenland's environment further. So there are many aspects to look at, but I am glad that the questioner is bringing it up so that we may be able to cooperate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105908	Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105909	Now I was saddened that Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam speaks the electric cars down like that, because one of the positive experiences I had last week at the conference was actually a meeting with someone who is in charge of rolling out charging stations. So that's actually the good part of the story. It's happening. It is true that they do not travel so far because of the cold weather, but it is not so bad. I know that Greenland is just a small community, and all countries can use that reason: we are just a small country. It is also used in Denmark, where it is said: What does the emission of CO2 mean? But if everyone says that, then it goes wrong. The point is just: In Greenland, which is hard hit by global warming, many of the cars drive less than 10 km on the liter, and the petrol price is 5.5 DKK. That doesn't seem to harmonize very well, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520105949	No, we should just have even bigger and even better cars to drive in Greenland. Now it was also said that there has been a conference, namely Future Greenland, which almost corresponds to a Danish Industry conference, but only on Greenlandic scale, where you invite a lot of Danish experts to come and talk. It is also important to recognise that there are a lot of people in Greenland who know that these electric cars simply cannot work in minus 30 degrees or minus 20 degrees. Several times it has been proven that it is more harmful to the environment, and we just have to be careful about that too. But I am glad that the questioner brings it up in relation to our being able to cooperate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110024	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110027	There is actually the answer to that question. I was a little shocked by the four words, namely that genocide should have been committed in the best sense. That is something extremely violent to say. It was then explained what it means. I am a little outsider here, an observer, and I am not going to interfere in the dispute over the history of Greenland towards Denmark. I may sometimes think that one should be careful not to look too much at oneself as a victim, but say: I am not a victim and look forward. Of course, you have to do away with the past, but it is also sometimes a good idea to say: I take responsibility for this where I am, I look forward and I do not hang around so much in what happened once and use violent words about it. It may sometimes be an obstacle to getting to where you want it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110132	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110133	First of all, on the concept of genocide, I must be quite honest and say that when I first heard it, perhaps I was thinking the same thing that a lot of people in this Chamber are thinking, because it sounds very violent. You almost get to think that people go around shooting each other. But that's not what this is about. People's murders are about the extermination of a people, and that is what we have seen. When we talk about Greenlandic history and when we talk about the former colonialisation and the abuses that have been committed against the people of Greenland, I also think it is a flawed view of human beings to call us victims. I think it is clear that, despite what we have gone through, we are still here today, yet sticking to our language and our culture, building our own political justice system and fighting for our independence, showing a huge strength. We continue to make concrete proposals, and we work in this Parliament and in Inatsisartut. I simply think it is too inadequate to call us victims.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110239	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110240	I thought the last part of the answer was very fine. That is what gives a drive to go where you want to, that is to say, that you have to go in spite of everything. What was my point was that it is important that you look forward and take your fate on you and say: no matter how we have come here, we are moving forward. We should not forget the past, but we should not be stuck in it either. That's very kind of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110312	Thank you. It is also because we are now in the Chamber. I have just been to Greenland and have among other things. Followed in Inatsisartut's work of the Greenland Parliament, and I can see how busy people are getting many of these things through. I think we have a really, really nice representation, as it looks right now. But I just think it is important when we are in this Chamber talking about the story that makes us have two Greenlandic MPs at all, that both parties take responsibility and that it is not just Greenland, as we saw with the Commission of Reconciliation, where Denmark would not take responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110350	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110352	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech. I think we all acknowledge in here that we have a common past of good and evil. And there have also been very much evil and many things that have been done wrong and abuses that have been committed. But we stand where we stand, and we have a cooperation that we too are many who think is very positive. There are a lot of good relations across Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. There are a lot of things we work together on. So if we are also to look at it a little forward-looking, I would like to ask: where does the rapporteur see in some places where the rapporteur actually thinks it makes sense for us to work together across the Kingdom community, and are there perhaps areas in which we could even cooperate more closely and get even more common benefit and joy out of and become better at working together on?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110432	Well, first of all, it is important that we talk about the construction that is now, precisely in order to understand which mechanisms we may have missed in relation to that which, among other things, is. other members of parliament from Greenland have also mentioned countless times, namely that there are some responsibilities which Denmark has been responsible for to this day and which might have been better served by a close democracy. But if we think about it, it is quite clear that we need to cooperate more on foreign policy in relation to, among other things, foreign policy. the climate and that we need to be strong together, that we want stronger democratic values around the rest of the world, and that we want development to move in the right direction as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110515	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110517	Thank you. Are there any matters which the rapporteur thinks could be taken home? Well, I don't think anyone here in the Danish Parliament would oppose it if Greenland wanted to take home some areas. I think you're open to that. Is it the feeling of the rapporteur that we in the Danish Parliament should, as it were, oppose it if Greenland wants to take over some more areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110538	No, not at all. But it is also just to acknowledge that one of the reasons why I think we should pay attention to these things is that we are the other day, for example. has seen that the Greenlandic Parliament itself has been involved in drafting a law on sexual abuse of children, which is otherwise a Danish responsibility. However, the legislation was made in Inatsisartut in Greenland and was forwarded to Denmark, where Denmark subsequently processed it. And this shows a little that we are dealing with a construction that may not be entirely optimal. It was really just to point it out. But there is no reluctance, as I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110610	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110612	Thank you. I would like to hear the rapporteur's views on the four-pronged broadcast which I have followed with great pleasure on the DR. A whole universe of podcast, debate, documentation, and what I know, has also been built up. I think in particular that the excellent cooperation that has been between museums in Denmark and Greenland has been unique, also with regard to the way they communicate, because it can at least be understood by me. How does the rapporteur feel about colonial spectacles? The rapporteur is allowed to keep them on for me. I think it's been a pleasure for the last 5-6 weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110702	First of all, with regard to the story that is coming up more and more, I would also like to give great praise to many of the journalists, whether they are from Denmark or Greenland, who are helping to uncover this important part of the story. What also contributes to this is that about 7 years ago, a media settlement was made, where, among other things, you made a media settlement. said there should be more about Greenland. When I talk to these DR journalists, they say that's one of the reasons they've had to sit down and ask: what are we going to do about these stories? All I think has been missing is that in connection with this storytelling we should also see it more with Greenlandic glasses. The broadcast to which the rapporteur refers is a very fine broadcast, but I think that many of the concepts used and the way in which Denmark is again set up as the good colonist can also be problematic. We need to be good at nuanced history and we need to be better at incorporating a different view, as seen with Greenlandic glasses.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110802	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110803	It is also good to have purely Danish broadcasts about Greenland and purely Greenlandic broadcasts about Greenland and about Denmark. I think it is an advantage that there are newspapers in Greenland that I can keep up with and that I should not learn Greenlandic to brief myself, and I actually think that I am fairly well informed about a lot of debates in Greenland. That's what we need from the Faroe Islands. It's totally impossible for me to read Faroese, and I have no idea what the hell it is they're discussing up there, other than what I can read from some superficial stuff I've taken down from the net, and I'm not getting any smarter about that. That is why I believe that both parties can do something, but I think we have also taken a proper step with this broadcast.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110843	Thank you. Then we will have an answer from the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110844	Yes, but there's a lot of the story that hasn't been uncovered, and that's exactly what's going on. It is not only podcast, it is also radio broadcasts, and it is also something that is happening in general. I think it is really important that we continue to continue this development, but that there is also some kind of humility in that this story actually often contains some trauma that parts of the general Greenlandic population, who are still alive to this day, carry around. So we must also be humble about how we then present that story.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110916	Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520110918	Thank you very much for your speech to the rapporteur and also for your efforts on behalf of Greenland. I'd like to start a bit of a constructive place, because I was in Sisimiut not long ago, and I was around visiting a lot, among other things. in the area of justice, and in many areas I think I can feel a clear improvement in many of the things that we have worked for in the years when I have also been sitting in the Folketing. There is an improvement, and I think that is extremely important, and I very much hope that it will be preserved. Then I would like to comment a little on the matter of forced housing of Greenlandic children. Because in Greenland we actually use the same tests as in Denmark. And there is no doubt that we need to look both at whether the tests could be adapted to Greenlanders, but also at whether the interpretation should become more professional, and whether we can strengthen efforts in general to ensure that there are no incorrect placements. I think we are quite in agreement on that. But I also think we need to have a discussion at home about whether it is good that we use those tests. Or do we also need to do something more at home in Greenland to ensure that this happens on a proper basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520111025	Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520111026	Firstly, I would like to acknowledge the rapporteur's introductory remarks and to express my thanks for them and for the cooperation that our parties also have. When we talk about these forced removals, which happen 20 times as often as for ordinary Danish children, it's also a completely different way to scale it. Because if you just do it here in Greenland and look at it with Greenlandic glasses, it is already taken into account that there may be some misunderstandings. It has already been taken into account that there are some languages that must also be taken into account. So these are all completely new mechanisms that we have in place. I just think it is important to say that when you are in Denmark, where there is already a fairly low legal certainty in terms of interpretation, in terms of language understanding and understanding of cultural differences, even I, who look so Danish as you can look at all, and who talk pear Danish, can also be told that I should be an autist or something like that, just because I didn't just understand the exact allusions. But you don't get that experience in Greenland. Of course we have to look at these tests in general, but it just has a completely different weight in Denmark than it does in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520111139	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520111140	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge that there can be prejudice against Greenlanders in Denmark, and I also look forward to this being a nuanced debate, and I really look forward to this hearing on 25 May. I would then like to ask the rapporteur's own position on the Paris Agreement, because I think that this is precisely where we should also take global responsibility, even if we are perhaps not the biggest polluters.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520111207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520111208	First of all, it has to be said that the rapporteur asked about my personal opinion. My personal opinion is that I think we should be included in the Paris Agreement, but I also think we should be more skilful on the Greenland side to look into the agreements that have also been made in the Paris Agreement, so that we make sure that this is not, in general, going beyond the people who are already experiencing severe consequences in Greenland. And that is possible, because if we look at the Paris Agreement, we are still recognised as a kind of developing country, and developing countries also have some sort of need to be helped in the right direction in order for the green transition to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520111248	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and now it is Mr. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520111307	Thank you. The challenges of the Kingdom community are the subject of today's debate. Those who have heard me speak from this platform are aware of my attitude towards the Kingdom community, a community of unsurpassed opportunities. But I know that challenges can also arise in our community, challenges to which we need to find solutions, of course. The world is constantly evolving, and so is the Kingdom community. In recent years we have seen how the balance of power in the kingdom has tipped northwards, and how the focus has been more on Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The Faroe Islands and Greenland have received greater global attention and thereby also a greater responsibility. And that requires us to make responsible decisions. We must make decisions that we have not been used to in the past. That is why Sambandsflockkurin in the Folketing has come up with a foreign policy initiative in which we analyse some of the foreign and security policy challenges that we have identified in the Kingdom Community. At the same time, we also have solutions to these challenges. The first challenge, in our opinion, is the so-called DFG scheme. The challenge arises when the Faroe Islands and Greenland do not agree as the DFG scheme requires. From the Faroese side there is a need to represent our own interests when they are not in line with Greenlandic interests. I can, for example. mention the priorities of the Arctic and the work of Neft. In addition, it is also a Faroese wish to be able to represent itself and to have their own voice in international organisations such as: Nordic Council. If these challenges are to be solved, it requires, first and foremost, the will to do what ultimately leads to changes in legislation. I know that there is a good will for this in the Faroe Islands, and I hope that the same applies in Denmark, so that the Faroe Islands will have better opportunities to make agreements and make decisions when it comes only to the Faroe Islands. Another challenge is when foreign and security policy decisions are to be taken in the Faroe Islands, and a third challenge is about how they are taken. For the cohesion between the kingdoms, it is a challenge that the relevant Faroese and Greenlandic authorities will not be involved early enough in the decision-making process. Here, for example, I can mention the Arctic capacity package, because when the initiatives contained in the Arctic capacity package are put forward, without the Faroese and Greenlandic governments being involved in the first phase, they cause concern. When, for example, decisions about the radar must be taken on the Faroe Islands, we in the Faroe Islands have some internal challenges, as we have not been used to making similar decisions. The solution to these challenges is, firstly, a review of the DFG scheme, secondly, an earlier involvement of Faroese authorities and, thirdly, a fixed framework in which decisions are ratified. Over the last few weeks, I have several times encountered a new challenge in the media, among my political colleagues and among ordinary people whom I have met on my way. I would rather call this challenge a misunderstanding, which is why I have looked forward to today's debate and the opportunity to clear up the misunderstanding which I hope can be cleared up once and for all. Let me start from the beginning on February 24 this year. For the same day that Russia invaded Ukraine, the Faroese Layerman announced that the Faroe Islands would follow the line of the West and the European Union in terms of sanctions against Russia, even though the Faroe Islands are not a member of the European Union. Since then, the Faroe Islands have followed all the decisions of the EU and Norway on sanctions against Russia and still do so. At the extended party leader's debate in April, I took note of the Prime Minister's emphasis on the importance of following along the path of sanctions in the European Union together with our allies, because that is where we are strongest, said the Prime Minister. I fully agree, and I know that the Faroese Government is also. However, one can get the impression in the debate that has been going on lately that some people believe that the Faroe Islands should sanction more and harder than the rest of the European Union. I'm surprised. It is true that the legislation itself has been further along the way than in Denmark, for example. Here it is important to remember that the Faroe Islands are not part of the European Union and have not made similar sanctions before. The Faroe Islands do not sit at the negotiating table in the European Union and therefore the legislative work takes longer. Both the Faroese authorities and companies have acted from the first day, and that must, after all, be what counts. The largest Faroese exporters to Russia reported just a few days after the invasion that they would stop all exports to Russia, and there have de facto been no Faroese exports to Russia since the invasion • except for prepaid goods, which has also been the case for the EU and Norway. Then there are the Russian ships in Faroese ports. It has been in force since 16 April, as a consequence of the EU sanctions package, that all access to EU ports for fishing vessels registered under Russian flags is prohibited, with some exceptions, among others. transport of food. This is also the case for the Faroe Islands. The Faroe Islands, the EU and Norway have a duty to manage our waters sustainably. The Faroe Islands, the EU and Norway share waters with Russia and share responsibility for managing fish stocks in the area. According to the exceptions, Russian ships can reload the fish they fish in our sea in our ports. And then I would say that if this were not done in the ports, it would be done on the high seas or on the international sea, and then we have a bad or no control over the quantities and fish species that are being fished by the Russians. It would be a neglect of our duty if we did not keep control of the Russians. Let me remind you that the same applies in Norway and the other EU countries. Finally, I would like to reiterate that the Faroe Islands have been aware of their responsibilities and have acted from the very first day. In 3 months Faroese exports to Russia have gone from approx. 25% of total exports to 0 per cent. That's what I'm gonna give you my word for. So when the Faroe Islands are repeatedly called foot-to-foot and pirates, who are more interested in earnings and exports of fish than to protect our freedom and democracy, it is absolutely wrong. At best, it is just a misunderstanding which, at worst, risks creating unnecessary divisions and conflict in our community. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112313	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112317	First of all, thank you to Mr. Edmund Joensen to discuss the subject of the Faroe Islands' relationship with Russia. But could Mr. Edmund Joensen is trying to get a little closer, why the Faroe Islands, with the most mild expression, must be foot-traveling in relation to the enforcement of sanctions? Because it is true that the announcement following the attack on Ukraine was that the Faroe Islands would support the sanctions. But what explanation is there at all for two months before legislation is in place? I know that it can be difficult when you have not had such sanctions before. I know that the Faroe Islands are not a member of the European Union. But what kind of signal does the Faroe Islands send here by taking so long to implement it? And I can follow it when sir... Edmund Joensen says that what counts is that exports have stopped. This means that the Faroe Islands' reputation, the image and honour of the Faroe Islands, has been saved by private companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112408	As I said in my speech, the signal from the Faroe Islands comes from the lagman, the Faroese Prime Minister, immediately, namely that the Faroe Islands will follow the EU and the sanctions decided by the other countries. We've been following that all along. And then, in practice, it has been followed to the letter, I would say. The fact that legislation follows is, of course, due to the fact that this is the first time that the Faroe Islands have had to embark on sanctions of this kind. First, you have to get started with the legislation • it is the Danish, or it is the Faroese, or who has the legal basis etc.? So it takes time. Then it has to go through the Laying. But what must be decisive is what you have done, I think. But thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112502	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112503	What has been done has been virtually nothing until after two months. That is why it can be said that the Faroe Islands' honour and image are therefore in the hands of private companies which, fortunately, made the right decision. I just do not think that it is optimal for a nation that wants to signal to the outside world that we do not accept an attack on another country, in other words that a great power like Russia is beginning to eat of its neighbouring countries. It takes two months to get the legislation in place. Then I would say that we in Denmark have discussed it as soon as there is a Russian ship somewhere that just has to lie down. But until recently they have been serviced, and they have been able to load from the port of Thorshavn. I think it is a very unfortunate signal that the Faroe Islands have sent here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112539	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112540	I do not agree with the questioner at all. For what exporters are reacting to is that the lagman, the Prime Minister of the Faroe Islands, says that we must follow the line that the European Union has taken. Then the others follow. And the reloading of ships in Faroese waters is happening because we are doing what the European Union is doing and what Norway is doing. Otherwise we will not be able to control fishing and fishing quotas, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112611	This is Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112613	Thank you to the rapporteur. In fact, I will choose to support the rapporteur a little. I think the Faroe Islands have been willing to do some things that have had a greater economic impact on their societies than we have chosen to do in the EU and in Denmark, where we are still pumping money into Putin for Russian gas and oil. So the Faroe Islands have, in fact, taken a much larger cut economically than we have in relation to the sanctions they have been willing to impose. After all, we still pay a lot of money for Russian gas and Russian oil. We can also encourage the Faroe Islands to do more, but I think we should be careful that we do not get quite on the high horse, because we have therefore also made some pragmatic choices in Denmark. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur a little bit about another area in which I hope the Faroe Islands will be able to make some progress. This is in relation to cooperation in the Commonwealth on cybersecurity, where you have not signed up to the Cybersecurity Act, just as you have in Greenland. Is this something you could have a debate on in the Faroe Islands following this, so that we can get a little better control of cybersecurity across the empire?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112714	Thank you. First of all, of course, the fact that the Faroe Islands have to lose a market which is close to 25% of the total. of exports. So it hits hard. I know about cybersecurity in the Faroe Islands in political circles, in other words how it should be done. And I guess there's no doubt that you need to be involved in the process of cybersecurity. I must be guilty of the fact that you have come, but there is a great deal of interest in being there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112759	Sir. Christoffer Aagaard Melson.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112801	Thank you. I think that is one of the things where we in the Kingdom Community can really benefit from working together, also because everything else must be quite difficult to get the right skills when you are as small a society as you are in the Faroe Islands. Another piece of legislation, which is also a debate, is the legislation on critical infrastructure, about which there is also a dialogue with the Faroe Islands and Greenland. However, thank you for the positive signal that this is also an area in which we may hopefully be able to work more closely together in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112828	Thank you. The cybersecurity thing hits all of us. Today, we are part of the whole world when we talk about that infrastructure. So it is equally important for the Faroe Islands to be involved from the start. Everybody's gotta be in it, because otherwise we don't have it figured out at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112854	We still have a brief comment to make on Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, but I should also like to make a service announcement. I have the feeling that we will not be ready for lunch with the debate here, and that is why some sandwiches will be put in the back so that we do not go completely sugar-cold in the debate. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112910	Thank you very much, as well as thank you to the rapporteur for his speech, and thank you for your good cooperation. It is good to have such a very experienced man, who can also contribute to enriching us in relation to the Kingdom community. I would also like to mention that to Future Greenland Atlantic Airways participated and was present, and the Faroe Islands were represented, and I think it is nice that Greenland and the Faroe Islands cooperate a little closer. So it was a pleasure. I would like to ask you how you want to replace this export. After all, we know that we would like to have the European Union a little more in the way of being able to export something more to the European Union, but what does it really look like in practice? How have exports to Russia been replaced by another export market? That might be interesting to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520112957	Now I don't know in detail what you've done instead. But salmon is part of exports and, as far as I understand, it goes to the other side. It goes to the United States and it goes to the European Union and to Japan, and there are no problems there. But there are many species of fish and, if I may mention them, there are, for example, fish. mackerel, and it's going pretty well too. But where things are not going well, there is where we had the market in the Eastern countries, in other words the old Soviet republics. That was for example. salt herring, and it was hake that we had a great deal of, and there are large stocks around which, as I understand it, are not sold. So money is lost on it, and if it is to be sold to the other side, what I hear is that it must be sold at a lower price.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520113105	Another comment?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520113107	Thank you for your answer. Then we have a joint project which is about ensuring that there is some more knowledge about Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for that too. And we have also been given some money for DUF to have the opportunity for young people in Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark to work together to secure more knowledge. I would like to know what the rapporteur's vision is in terms of ensuring more knowledge about Greenland and the Faroe Islands in the future in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520113135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520113136	Thank you. I am very pleased with the project that the questioner and I put into effect last year when 3 million were allocated. kr. We are also hoping to increase the amount and extend the period of time. This is absolutely the way to go, to get young people across to talk and to know each other and to visit each other and develop our society. So I have a great deal of understanding for everything that can be done in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520113221	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next brief remark is to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520113226	First of all, thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The focus was also on the fact that there is a collaboration directly between Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Unfortunately, in some of these cooperations there are also some things that we do not always agree on. However, if you are to work together well, you must always try to find a common basis, and one of the things I also noticed that the rapporteur mentioned as an example was that the Faroe Islands should also have their own voice in the Nordic Council. Then I think that there may be some things you can agree on, among other things. in international forums. A concrete example is that there is an international whaling commission where Denmark sends a representative to participate in this commission and to talk about the whalings to be made in those parts of the Danish kingdom that do not involve Denmark. In fact, the Faroe Islands and Greenland are at the forefront here. Could this also be a point of cooperation that Greenland and the Faroe Islands could enter into? Is this something that the rapporteur could be interested in, that is, that in whaling commissions, for example, when it comes specifically to Greenland or the Faroe Islands, we are supposed to send someone to sit at the end of the table?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520113340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520113341	Thank you. So, I think there is far too little cooperation between the Faroe Islands and Greenland. I think that both communities would benefit greatly if there were cooperation. That's the first thing. When it comes to whales and the Whale Commission, I believe that our fishermen are taking part in those whale meetings in our gardens. They are attending the meetings as they are now. But the Faroe Islands have had the catch of large whales in the past, but it stopped, I believe it was in the 1980s, because the big whales were threatened, and since then they have almost just taken small whales when they enter the fjords of the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520113445	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from Javnaðarflokkurin, and that is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520113500	Thank you very much. I will only say a few words about yesterday when journalists from all the major media called and asked how I would vote on the immunity case. After the Conservatives' announcement, it seemed that the North Atlantic could be decisive. Then there arose the dilemma which is also the issue of this debate: what to do when you are a legislator in a parliament that does not legislate for the electorate who elected you. I am a Social Democrat and I would like to support a social democratic government both in its formation and throughout the period. But I am also a democrat and I am aware that I do not have a democratic political mandate to prevent the majority elected in Denmark from getting its way and that is a great dilemma. When, after the elections, I point to the Social Democratic candidate for the Prime Minister's post, it is not only because I am a Social Democrat, but also because I cannot put my vote on the auction after an election. I think that would be abuse of power when you're in my position. I have to say who I vote for before the elections; people have to know, and then I have to stick to it. But when it comes to something as fundamental as waiving the immunity of the people, I think that the MFs elected by Danish voters should make the decision. It is not a government against opposition; it is the whole of the Danish people's government which acts as a kind of court of law, and that is why, in both cases, I have abstained from voting in these specific votes. However, the matter also shows the problem of the fact that in this Parliament there are Members who come from outside and have to judge someone who comes from within. So it is mfs whose voters are neither affected by the laws that are passed nor have to bear the financial burdens that this House imposes on citizens. Since the adoption of the Constitution, more and more domestic policy decisions have moved northwards to such an extent that the North Atlantic mandate might have to be debated from a democratic point of view. Legality now lies in foreign policy, but here too major changes are taking place. In 2020, Steen Kjærgaard from the Royal Danish Defence College in Berlingske spoke of the danger of the countries of the Kingdom community being divided. He said: "Risikoen is that in the Kingdom community we are being played off against each other. I do not think that the United States has an interest in doing so, but the United States has an interest in the Danish side soon. Otherwise, the Americans will go their own way. They have some very concrete challenges around the Faroe Islands and Greenland, which they must have addressed. ▪ His analysis was about the future, but now we are in the midst of the conditions he predicted. The United States wants its way, NATO wants its way. And I think it is quite clear in everyone's interest that when it comes to security and defence, the United States also gets its way. It is they who can and will step in if something happens, but the premise is that they have the necessary knowledge. Denmark has formally, legally, legally delivered the decisions and permits needed in this area, but politically it does not want to bypass the Faroese authorities fortunately. It would also cause major political problems if we did so. And when it is clear to the United States that it is in the Faroe Islands that the decision is made, then the United States goes its own way and you take care of Denmark. It initiates bilateral cooperation between or at least tries to reach an understanding between the United States and the Faroe Islands. We saw it in the case of telecommunications, which I was very interested in. Since it was clear to the United States that Denmark would not make a decision on the matter, although it was a security policy matter, the US Embassy and high-ranking American politicians started a strong lobbying directly against the Faroe Islands. In the case of the surveillance radar, we have seen the same thing: If Denmark does not use its formal powers, but clearly says that the final decision must be made in the Faroe Islands, then the United States goes its own way. But if Denmark then acts, makes the decision, uses its formal rights and thus does not let the Faroe Islands act, then there is a chance that you will be dissatisfied in the Faroe Islands and will want to go your own way. One can say that it is a dispute over the emperor's beard, who should make these decisions, because the overall decisions are always hopefully the same. Denmark and the Faroe Islands have no different security policy interests. And yet Denmark is increasingly being bound by security policy decisions taken in the EU; the Faroe Islands will not be. We saw that after Crimea, and we have seen that since 24 February. The invasion has led to a number of decisions, the so-called sanctions packages adopted in the European Union. It is a security policy, but it does not apply to the Faroe Islands, and the government clearly signals that nothing will be pushed down over the Faroe Islands. And then there is the danger that the kingdom will speak with two tongues in matters of security policy. In the Faroe Islands, the Minister said on 24 February that the policy of the European Union would be followed, but since then, as has been stated today, the majority of the Latting has decided that there should be no automatic in it. As soon as a sanction hits the Faroese economy or profession in the heart, it must be presented to the Latting and adopted as a special law. There are many and sharp opinions on this in the debate in the Faroe Islands, but overall it is a matter of security policy that must be dealt with and adopted in the Lagtinget. That is a huge change compared to just a few years ago. This is very healthy for the Faroese political system and the whole debate. So far, NATO has been opposed to military installation and Faroese neutrality has been supported; all of this has been without consequences. The debate has lived its own life without consequence in a bubble as well as outside the reality of the decision was taken in Denmark anyway. Now it matters what you mean and say and do, and it requires that you in the Faroe Islands relate to the world in a completely different way than before, and that makes the Faroese system much more responsible than it has been. And that's a big plus. So I would like to thank the government for the way in which it has responded to the call for much greater involvement and codecision in the field of foreign policy. It can be said that the government has helped the Faroe Islands along the way in this area by involving the Faroe Islands, leaving competence to the Faroe Islands, and refraining from using its formal right to impose security policy decisions. Finally, I would also like to thank you for the initiative in working with the Contact Committee, which is to ensure both involvement and knowledge sharing between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. It will be a huge boost for the whole political life of the Faroe Islands and create a whole new horizon, a whole new field that has never been dealt with before. From our point of view, we need to find out how we deal with this confidential information, in other words how we deal with foreign policy and security policy matters. Edmund Joensen, my colleague, spoke about this just now, and I fully agree. There are some things we need to get formally in place. But in Denmark one must also realise that one will not always get exactly the output one wants. When you say yes to unity, to cooperation, to mutual respect and equal wealth, you must also live with the fact that you do not have equality. You can risk getting different lines. The Prime Minister said in his speech that the Faroe Islands and Denmark are moving closer together, and I said in my remark that I could recognise it one by one. There is a very fine relationship at the moment, and it may sound paradoxical that when, as states, you can perhaps be divided in certain fields you can make a security policy decision in Denmark under the auspices of the EU and another in the Faroe Islands, so the kingdom speaks with two tongues. It's completely reverse it's something that brings the kingdom parts closer together. Because the more the Faroe Islands are allowed to live their own lives, make their own decisions, take their own responsibilities, the more you find yourself in a kingdom community. The moment you get puffed up, when something's being laid down over a ghost, you're gonna have to do that! The more room for manoeuvre, the more freedom, the better a community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520114441	Thank you to the rapporteur and there is a request for a brief comment. It's from sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520114445	Thank you for a rapporteur's speech, which, as always, is from Mr. Sjúrður Skaale is both nuanced and reflecting on the obvious dilemmas that exist. But what kind of a pattern is that, sir? Sjúrður Skaale can see that together we can make it out of this? Because on the one hand, Mr. Mr Sjúrður Skaale, that the aim of the United States may not be to divide the Commonwealth, but that their actions, on the other hand, are actually to take care of the decisions, as the rapporteur says, which were simply not the aim of it and which, in fact, make us split up in relation to each other. So what kind of cooperation are we going to do, and what kind of cooperation are we going to do, so that, on the one hand, we do not get split up, regardless of the fact that this was not the objective, but that this is what becomes the reality of it and, on the other hand, that the Faroe Islands are stronger with their own voice in an international context?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520114532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520114534	Thank you for the question. As I said, I do not think we are torn apart. When it came to the big case that attracted international attention about telecommunications it was in CNN, and it was in the New York Times, and there were ambassadors who traveled on shuttle service to the Faroe Islands, and there were American senators who were on the Faroe Islands • made it that we felt it was our decision. We are part of the Kingdom community, but this is something we must decide for ourselves, and it was absolutely clear from the government: we are not touching that matter. It doesn't divide us, I think. In my opinion, the result was exactly the right one, namely that we chose a Nordic provider of telecommunications equipment. It cost a lot of money, but I think the right decision was made. And again, there were some decision-making processes that were a little strange, I think, because you are not used to dealing with them, but it did not divide us. If you had in Denmark made the decision that you ended up making in the Faroe Islands, you would feel that you were trumped, that it would have played us down, even if the result had actually been the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520114641	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520114642	I really would like me to be able to follow the optimistic approach that Mr. Sjúrður Skaale has. And that is certainly an option. I just think that the impression we get is that the Americans suddenly want to call on Thorshavn with warships, which they have not done for a few decades, and send senators to the Faroe Islands, and you create consulates in Greenland, and that it is hardly because they now want to specifically support neither Greenland nor the Faroe Islands, but because there are American interests at stake and nothing else, and I think we are just going to see much more of that. And then I'm gonna give Mr. Knox. Peter Skaarup is right that it was fortunate that it ended in this way with the provider, Huawei, because, as the rapporteur says, if a decision had been taken in Denmark, it would have gone wrong. So it was good that it ended that way. But I wonder if there are not many other similar types of challenges where we will hopefully be united, yet with different interests or at least with different types of pressure from, for example, the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520114740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520114741	Thank you again. As things stand at the moment and as the security policy picture currently stands, I do not think that there is a great difference between American interests and Faroese interests and Danish interests. I think that the time since 24 February has shown that the West is united and that we have come closer together than ever before, both in NATO and in the European Union, even though the Faroe Islands are outside the European Union. So I do not think it is a source of conflict that the Americans get their way, as it is now. I simply do not think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520114815	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520114819	The rapporteur put me in a dilemma in the introduction: what should I do if there is now a request that one of the North Atlantic Members should have waived his immunity because he has been involved in some matter in which some judges would like to take a stand and perhaps punish him? It will be difficult when the North Atlantic Members say: we do not want to take a position on such matters. I understand the dilemma, but it is also an inverse dilemma, which lies right on the table. No, I do not know if it does, I hope it does not do so but is theoretically on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520114857	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520114858	I am very pleased with that statement. I feel very sure that I can do something really funny and I will not lose my immunity, because that is in principle against Christian Juhl and his colleagues' position. So now all of a sudden, I felt really free. This is, of course, a dilemma which I think has been somewhat refused to talk about, that is, that we are some people in this House who are members of a legislative assembly who do not legislate for those who have elected us. This is a dilemma which should be discussed politically. Of course the legal framework is very clear, but the political reality is very muddy, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520114938	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520114940	It was also just to problematize the dilemma that really exists. I don't have much trouble taking a stand on this case. I want to know what you vote on if you have to vote. However, I agree with Mr. Sjúrður Skaale's idea that the more room for manoeuvre there is in a community, the stronger it can be. In my old trade union we always said that disagreement makes strong, especially if one knows how to use the disagreement to become wiser and thus act in greater awareness that what we are doing is right. But, of course, within the Kingdom community we have the opportunity to have that room of opportunity and to expand that room of opportunity, and I hope we can find that in a new version that Karsten Hønge has talked about many times. That's where we'll find that room. But we do have a great power that does not care what we do in our community and says: we have great power interests. This sometimes dictates the solution, no matter how much democracy we try to build.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520115044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520115045	Thank you. Yes, it was a good oneliner: Disunity makes strong. I think that is absolutely right in this. At least getting to disagree makes it strong. Of course, there are great-power interests that can come across our interests and Danish interests etc. There is no doubt about that, and it is not the case that I am an idiot and say that everything that comes from the United States is not right at all. However, as things stand at the moment, as the threat picture is at the moment, I do not think there is a big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520115122	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Kasper Roug.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520115136	Thank you for that, President. As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I would like to open this debate, which we are actually going to have here today. Now that we have heard a fine statement to the Danish Parliament, I am, of course, always delighted with this opportunity to discuss our cooperation in the Kingdom Community. Last year we stood here, one year ago, talking about the community of the Kingdom, which was marked by the covid-19 and with all the consequences that we had experienced there, both for health, for the economy and also for cooperation between the kingdoms. Precisely as we could now begin to put the pandemic behind us and thought that we were now facing brighter times, we were suddenly hit by a new international crisis in the Kingdom community, and I am, of course, talking about Putin's attack on Ukraine on 24 February. In both Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands, we have stood together and clearly distanced ourselves from Russia's aggression, and we have given full support to Ukraine. Because these days it is not only Ukraine that is under attack, but also quite fundamental values of democracy, peace and, above all, international law and human rights, which we share in the Kingdom community. In an increasingly uncertain world and unpredictable time, therefore, it is more important than ever that we in the kingdom stand together and stand up for our common values. That is why it is also positive, I think, when, in the course of the past year, we have strengthened the cooperation between the Danish Government, the Naalaksuisut and the Home Government of the Faroe Islands. This is among other things. by setting up the Standing Liaison Committee at ministerial level to ensure a closer dialogue on foreign, security and defence policy issues, and in addition, Greenland has been given a more central role in the Arctic Council. I am sure that enhanced cooperation will benefit all of us, and it is an important prerequisite for a strong Kingdom community, especially at a time of growing, complex and changing threat picture, where more and more issues will have a security policy dimension. This applies especially to security policy developments in the Arctic and the North Atlantic, where climate change and geopolitical tensions challenge stability. It places new demands on cooperation in the Kingdom Community, where involvement and dialogue are more important than ever. I am pleased that last week the Danish Minister for Defence and the Greenlandic Naalakkersuisoq for Foreign Affairs signed an agreement on the principles for the implementation of the Arctic capacity package in Greenland. The political agreement on an Arctic capacity package of approximately 1.5 billion. kr. was concluded by a broad majority in the Folketing last year and in close dialogue with Greenland and the Faroe Islands. With the framework agreement, the capacity of the defence to monitor activities in the area was significantly strengthened, and it is important that the strengthened efforts provide both military and civilian benefits. In particular, the civilian part of the capacity package has been a Greenlandic wish. The civilian part of the capacity package has investments in, among other things: rescue operations, emergency tasks, environmental monitoring, fisheries control and climate research. In the case of Greenland, an agreement has now also been reached to establish a new emergency training programme in Kangerlussuaq to strengthen Greenland's citizens' ability to participate in the defence of Greenland, which is good. Another event in the past year, which is important, is the Prime Minister's apology on behalf of Denmark for the Greenlandic experimental children. It was time that we could put perhaps not a sentence, but then at least a comma, and we should not let our common history of both good and evil go into oblivion. Because we must strengthen our cooperation in the future, we must also know our common past and learn from it. I therefore hope that our common destiny will be seen in an appropriate historical light. Two or more generations ago, the logic of Western society was different than it is today. They were more paternal and hard, you might say. A good example in Denmark could be the treatment of the godhavn boys, who, with contemporary glasses, would say have been subjected to outright torture. Let us now look forward with our common history on both good and evil. Good cooperation in the Kingdom community requires both that we stand together in all that we have in common, but also respect our differences. Perhaps one could say something of the same thing that Christian Juhl said just now, namely that disagreement makes strong, and of course it must also be so in the Kingdom community. Our countries have been different in many areas, yet we have deep historical roots and have built up close cooperation over time. This year the war has once again reminded us, as the pandemic did last year, how important it is to stick together, especially in difficult times. Finally, I would like to thank the parties of the Folketing for their constructive cooperation on the text of the adoption. With these words I will read the adoption text from a unanimous Parliament on behalf of Social Democracy, the Left, SF, Radical Left, Conservatives, Enhedslisten, Dansk Folkeparti, Nye Civile, Liberal Alliance, Alternativet, Siumut, IA, Sambandsflokkurin and Javnaðarflokkurin: Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Prime Minister's statement on the Danish Empire 2022. The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland share fundamental values of democracy, peace and freedom and stand united in condemning Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government's ongoing cooperation with the Home Government of the Faroe Islands and the Naalakkersuisut on foreign, security and defence policy has been strengthened and calls for cooperation to continue to develop, including in the new Foreign, Security and Defence Policy Contact Committee at government level. The Danish Parliament urges the Government to continue to follow the economy of the Faroe Islands and Greenland and to cooperate in both acquired and non-acquired areas, including climate initiatives, business development and interventions for children and young people. The Danish Parliament urges the Government to contribute continuously to the removal of border barriers in the Kingdom and to strengthen the knowledge building on Greenland, the Faroe Islands and the Kingdom, including the participation of the Faroe Islands and Greenland. In this context, the Government is also encouraged to work to prevent discrimination against vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. • Proposal for adoption No. V 91). I look forward to a further good debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520115821	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption will be included in the continuing negotiations. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and first of all it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520115833	Thank you for a good rapporteur's speech and thank you for the overall good cooperation. The interesting thing about such texts for adoption and the process that exists is that there are some things which cannot be included, but which we are actually working on. In many ways one can say that the Kingdom is a complex size, but that it is also almost like a wheel that just has to keep going in order to exist. One of the things I know we are all concerned with is border barriers and the desire for digital registration, for example. in the courts in Greenland, and I would like to hear more from the rapporteur. There are many things that work and there are many things that we are doing well and that have actually been resolved, but there are also a number of things that we still have to work on. What are some priorities for social democracy, especially when we are talking about border barriers and digital registration?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520115925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520115926	Thank you for the question. Again, I would also like to sign for the good cooperation. In particular, I think our informal meetings are excellent, so thank you for that. There is no doubt that border barriers are a constant challenge for the Kingdom community, and we will, of course, look at this in the future too. I just think it is important to say that, in order for us to be able to point to something concrete, in relation to what border barriers can be, we must ensure that we have constant involvement of all the wealth parts. That is why I think it is important that the governments concerned help to identify concrete examples of border barriers in a joint dialogue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120008	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120010	Thank you. Then I would like to take up that call and point out a very specific example. If you have a Danish driving licence and live in Greenland, you have to, for example. at the age of 70, or if you lose your driving licence, to Denmark for a new driving licence. I think that is a little striking and I would like to hear in concrete terms whether this is something that the Social Democrats want to help change.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120032	Specifically, there is no doubt that if there is something that seems to be too crazy if you can go so far as to say it then we will have to look at the possibilities of changing it, and we will look at that very favourably.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120046	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120049	The rapporteur was not so much concerned with the major changes that are taking place because Putin was so brutal to make the invasion in Ukraine and thus we have boycotted his people in a number of institutions, the Nordic Council, etc. How do the Social Democrats view the Arctic after Ukraine? The challenges of the Arctic continue, no matter how many months we may risk that war. Hopefully, we'll soon get the Russians tossed home and then build the country again. But what about the Arctic? It is a challenge that lies there and is really ticking. There we have to try to find a model in which we can also commit all the Arctic nations to continued efforts, otherwise our great visions of the Ilulissat Declaration will crumble.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120145	Thank you for the question. I really think, if I may be quite honest, that the rapporteur himself responds to this, because we have now paused the Arctic Council so far, among other things. Because of the fact that Russia has been an aggressor in Ukraine. In fact, I think that this is something that the rapporteur mentions, or at least suggests quite strongly, that we must of course work together internationally in the Arctic as well. However, there is no doubt that when we find ourselves in a situation in which one of our Arctic neighbours, which is Russia, suddenly acts as violently as they did on 24 February, we also have to react to it. It is clear, however, that we hope, as the rapporteur himself says, that when the Ukrainians have the Russians kicked out that is how I think the rapporteur said it, we will achieve a lasting peace so that we can look forward again in the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120235	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120237	In fact, I make a great distinction between the rulers in Russia and the Russians, because the Russians are our neighbours, and hopefully in the future we will also have a new relationship with them. One can dream that Putin will go into the bend when he loses the war, but that doesn't happen by itself, and we have to act. Has the rapporteur given any thought to the possibility of intermediate ways?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120303	I'm gonna need some rest up in the gallery. Welcome here, but the meeting is under way, so I'm gonna ask you to stay calm. Thank you. I'm sorry, sir. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120317	I ask mostly because I'm looking for an answer myself. Let us now say that next week we could be lucky enough to have a ceasefire which could form the basis for some peace negotiations, so we will be well on the way to Ukraine. However, are there any shortcuts, whether international or diplomatic or legal, so that we can then negotiate with officials or negotiate with an NGO from Russia or some others on their behalf, so that we can move forward with those agreements? After all, we end up filling the Arctic with nuclear weapons and all sorts of other junk that we do not want up there and that the climate initiatives are stalling.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120401	Thank you for the question. I actually think that the rapporteur himself is responding to this, because of course I very much agree that we are not talking about the Russian people, but about the rulers, that is. Putin, like the problem in this case. Of course, we need to use the means we can at all to achieve as peaceful solutions as possible. We want to go back to a situation where there is low voltage in the Arctic, and we will, of course, go a long way in trying to achieve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120433	The next brief remark is to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120437	Thank you very much. Among other things: During the negotiations on the text of the adoption, there was also a longer dialogue with inter alia: the rapporteur's secretary, in which we discussed the importance of including Greenlandic and Faroese views in the knowledge-building that is taking place, so that the knowledge-building that will also take place in the future is, as far as possible, on the broadest possible basis. Can the rapporteur also comment on what the rapporteur thinks about this particular point?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120510	There is no doubt that it is important for us that knowledge-building, in terms of both Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland, is something that concerns us. That is something we, for example. I am also working with the Greenland Committee, and I can see that the Faroes Committee also does so when I keep up with it, and there it is also being discussed on an ongoing basis. So, of course, this is something that is important to us, that is to say, that we also look forwardly at actions that can build up greater and better knowledge between the three peoples.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120538	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120544	The rapporteur said that atrocities were also committed in the past, such as: In Denmark and Denmark, too, when he gathered the dark chapters that we also have in our common history, but can the rapporteur also recognise that it is very different when it comes specifically to systematically committing them only against a particular people rather than a much, much smaller group of the Danish people?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120607	When I talk about the sins of the past, when I talk about the logic of the past, I am talking about the fact that I also think that in Denmark we could find examples back in the 1960s and 1950s for that matter, and before that, of course, where the authorities have tried to manipulate young women and young men or others to, for example, receive all kinds of operational interventions for that matter. There have been some precedents in Denmark, where in the very old days there has been talk of sterilizing very young women too. It was done in the name of goodness, but today it will be completely inappropriate; it will be something we could not tolerate at all today. But it was then because there was a different logic, and unfortunately it was just another time, and I think that is important when we also talk about common history, including in the Commonwealth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120705	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Christoffer Aagaard Melson. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520120717	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. The statement on the Kingdom Community shows a community that is, of course, well in shape, but it is an important debate we have today, because it is not a matter of course. In these years, the Kingdom Community faces a number of challenges, changes and opportunities that we so much need to discuss with each other and find solutions to if we are also to have a strong kingdom community in the future. In the course of last year's debate, the handling and cooperation in the fight against covid-19 was a great deal, but fortunately it will not be this year. However, I would like briefly to sum up that, in this context too, the Kingdom Community demonstrated its value by being able to work together on everything from the purchase of protective equipment for the roll-out of vaccines to the detection of infection, even though, of course, there are always lessons to be learned and which can be even better if we face a similar crisis another time. Putin's attack on Ukraine has shaken the world order that has provided stability and economic prosperity over the past many years. In this crisis, the Kingdom community must also be put to the test. Russia's destructive behaviour and the act challenges Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark in different ways and puts the Kingdom community in a completely new security policy situation in the Arctic. It is therefore very good that a Security and Defence Policy Liaison Committee has been set up at government level, and it must be said that it is good timing for the Heads of Government that they have reached that agreement. In this context, we in the Left would also call for further work to be done on the ideas which, among other things, are: Mr. Edmund Joensen and Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam have previously worked on creating a closer dialogue across the parliaments of the Kingdom community as well. One of the things we need to deal with is cooperation in the Arctic Council, where, as I said, the other states in the Arctic have said that they will not cooperate with Russia. We have the same challenge in the cooperation of Arctic Parliamentarians, where Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen is President. Of course, we should not cooperate with Russia at the present time, as it looks great at international ground rules, but it is still a really, really important issue that needs to be dealt with, and this requires us to move closer together with the other states in the Arctic and to agree on a plan and a strategy on how to move forward on the important issues. Internally within the Commonwealth it also requires a close and serious dialogue towards a new defence settlement. Putin has shown that he is unpredictable and can come up with anything, and that is why we need to work closely together in the Kingdom community on what it takes to ensure our security in the future. In addition to tough security, we also need to address a number of security-related issues, and this applies to critical infrastructure and increased cybersecurity, where, fortunately, the statement shows that there is a close dialogue, as well as close cooperation in tackling climate change will be crucial in the future. This also applies to trade, where we all have an interest in becoming less vulnerable to Russian pressure. In Denmark, it is primarily in relation to energy dependency that we have a challenge; in Greenland and especially in the Faroe Islands, it is primarily the dependence on fish exports to Russia that poses a security policy challenge. That is why we call on the government to continue to set all the sails to help the Faroe Islands secure a better trade agreement with the EU, which I know the Prime Minister also has a great deal of focus on. So thank you for that to the Prime Minister. It is in the interests of both the European Union and the Kingdom Community that we should get this country such an agreement that Russia cannot press the Faroe Islands in the way they are able to do today. The prerequisite for our having a strong Kingdom community is also that we can trade with each other and are economically robust, so we must do what we can to combat border barriers within the Kingdom Community. A new example is the Schrems II judgment, after which it has become much harder to transfer data to an unsafe third country, and Greenland is still described as, and this also creates major problems for public authorities in relation to the cooperation between Denmark and Greenland. An agreement must simply be reached on this as soon as possible, as has been achieved for the Faroe Islands, Andorra, Canada, Jersey, New Zealand and a number of other countries. I am sorry that Greenland has still not succeeded in doing so, and we must have a close dialogue with Greenland on this, i.e. how we can do it better, because it is very, very inappropriate. More uniform roaming charges across the Kingdom community is another area that we in the Left think we should continue to work on. It is also essential for a well-functioning Kingdom Community that we are familiar with each other, and therefore we must focus on teaching the Kingdom Community, in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, in our education system, and that there are also means to support that teaching. When we were last in government, some money was set aside to make teaching material, and we hope that in the years to come we will also be able to set aside some funds to strengthen communication in the Danish schools. In the last year there has been more focus on film, documentary and podcast about the Faroe Islands and Greenland, it is very good, it is something that we all enjoy in this time. However, news coverage of what is going on in the Faroe Islands and Greenland still lags enormously. Even events which are very, very important in terms of security policy for Denmark are hardly covered, and it is a huge problem if we are to have a real democratic debate on the future and conditions of the Kingdom community. It is simply not good enough in a country that spends as much money on public service as we do in Denmark, and that is why we want to strengthen this coverage in the context of a new media reconciliation. Finally, I would like to mention that we also have a major challenge in terms of the digitalisation of the areas not yet repatriated. In Greenland we visited the Greenland Committee last year, where we could see that the registration, which in Denmark is digitised for the benefit and joy of all of us, still works in Greenland, approximately as it did in the 80s in Denmark. There I think we have an obligation to ensure that Greenland joins the new millennium, and I hope that government and Parliament can work together on this in the coming parliamentary year to resolve this once and for all. Finally, I would just like to say that we are still waiting for the government's Arctic strategy. We hope it will come soon, because it is more important than ever. We also hope, of course, that some of our thoughts can be found in it, but I actually think they can, because fortunately there is more gathering than there is splitting when we sit down and talk across the kingdom community. We understand, of course, that there are requests from other Kingdom days, but we hope that the government will take our comments forward to the governments of both Greenland and the Faroe Islands that we think that this could be an important signal in the difficult time we are in if we could soon agree on a common strategy for our foreign and security policy in the Arctic. Let me conclude by stating that I and the Left are firmly convinced that the Kingdom Community is making us all, the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Denmark, stronger. Of course there are bumps on the road and there is a past that we need to talk about and which we need to have openness about, but together we believe that we stand stronger as three small very different countries in an uncertain world also in the future. I look forward to a continued good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520121429	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur and the first is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520121437	Thank you very much to the rapporteur and thank you for your cooperation, and I would like to say that I fully agree with everything that has been said. It is not always the case that I am in the rapporteur's speech, but I am here and I think it is good to see it. So thank you for the thoroughness that I think the rapporteur shows in relation to Greenland. There is no doubt that the war in Ukraine and Russia's action in the world community are something that affects us in the Arctic, which is why there is also a greater focus on defence, and it also means that Russia's role in relation to the Arctic is something that we follow very much in, and there is no doubt that there is a need for airspace surveillance and that we need to monitor the waters around Greenland in relation to the Russian submarines, as we also know there. However, something that was quite interesting was that I met with the tradestandsforeningen in Greenland, which in general says that it could be interesting if the defence could buy something more locally. And there I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520121533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520121538	To buy something more locally, I think we should try to look at both when we have capacities and Greenland also benefit from it, i.e. that you feel that it also contributes to the Greenlandic economy and society. So I think you should look at that without prejudice. Of course, there is always a challenge to what you can get and at what price. Greenland also imports a lot of things, but of course you have to look at both using local employees and local craftsmen, and what else it can be, also because it is something that the defence itself says when you are in Greenland • it gives really, very much value with the local cooperation and the local inputs. So in terms of buying, I definitely think so too. It's a bit a different ball street, but I'm also really happy that there is now an agreement about some education, so that young Greenlanders too can contribute and gain more insight into what it really is, the Danish defence and also the preparedness, which the defence also stands for, are doing in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520121635	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520121640	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. Then I can also have the opportunity to elaborate on my thoughts, and I am thinking in general about the fact that it is not just about gunpowder and bullets and fighter planes, when we talk defence in relation to the Arctic, because we want low-voltage, but that we are just trying to nuance things and try to integrate Greenlandic society a little more into the task solution, and there is the emergency training, after all, a very good example of that. But I also think it is rather thought-provoking that we should perhaps have some more research on foreign and security policy in Greenland, and that perhaps we should think more of some Greenlandic companies in relation to solving those tasks, and these are some new ideas, I think, in relation to what I have heard before. But I also know that you have some of the same thoughts in Denmark, that is, how you can involve the defence industry. And that is also true in Greenland. There we would also like to have some Greenlandic players on the field.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520121723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520121726	I totally agree. I mean, a new battleground, and you mentioned the cyber area, too, is the information war, which will probably come even more to Greenland. There have already been a few examples of this, and it is of course important that Greenlanders and politicians have so much understanding and are so involved, and that they have as real a picture as possible of what it means, what it takes, what the situation picture is, what the Danish defence is doing, that they actually have the facts, that they know on their own body what is up and down in things, so that we cannot be split up. For that is actually the fear one can have in such a place as the Commonwealth that foreign players could have an interest in providing us with a picture of each other that is not real, in order to try to divide us up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520121807	The next brief remark is to Mr. Edmund Joensen of the Samband Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520121814	Thank you, and thank you for a good speech, thank you for a positive speech for the Kingdom community. The speaker mentioned the media and how important it was for understanding between the Kingdom parts, and I agree 100% with that. This is, of course, the quick way to inform each other and understand each other's society, and I understood the previous question, Mr. Christian Juhl, that he had difficulty understanding what was said in the Faroe Islands when he was up there, and therefore had difficulty keeping up with what was moving. And there we can just imagine how the others in the cities feel about media coverage when Mr. Christian Juhl does not understand everything when he is in the Faroe Islands. But it shows how important it is to incorporate media conciliation into sending news to each other in the community. Does the speaker agree that something needs to be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520121942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520121945	I am so much, and the problem is actually a little bigger in relation to the Faroe Islands than Greenland, because you can also see a lot of news in Danish. This may be a problem in relation to the Faroe Islands, and I think it is a paradox. When you are in the Folketing, you know how important we are to each other, but the media coverage of the Faroe Islands in Danish media is for example. much, much worse than it is almost by the municipality of Vejle, I will tell you where I come from. There is something wrong with the priorities there, and that is also some of what we want to play in the media negotiations, in other words that in something so important in terms of security and foreign policy and also just in terms of the way our people's government works, there is simply so little knowledge. If you ask how many Danes know what the lagman in the Faroe Islands is called or what has happened in the case of the radar, which we now mentioned, which is also very important in this time, then I hardly think you can find 1 per cent. It is a problem for the Danes to have a real democratic debate about how our community should be organized and how we should act towards each other in the future. So I really hope something will come through in the media negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520122045	Sir. Edmund Joensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520122054	Thank you. It is very important that we incorporate this into media coverage, because of course the problem is one way. In the Faroe Islands you understand both the Faroese and the Danish, but in Denmark you do not understand the Faroese. So I'm gonna have to grab my own bosom, too. We should do something that could be broadcast on Danish television with Danish language and text, and of course the same applies to Greenland. But I think it's missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520122139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520122141	I agree. And one thing is that it is translated into Danish, but something else could be that there were some, perhaps for example. In DR it could just be one person who the editorial followed in what was going on in the Faroe Islands, so that you get the ability to sort what is important and what is not important. And there is a bit of my feeling that you sometimes travel up there when there are elections, but that it is in connection with the really important stories that are between the elections, it goes wrong and they are not covered because you do not keep up with it or have an editorial or editorial coverage, and it could be just a cooperation agreement with some of the media in Greenland or the Faroe Islands that made it get a platform. One thing is that it is translated into Danish, so we can go into a Faroese website, but I think it's almost just some people like us here who are going to do it. That is why it is also important that, for example, DR takes on this role, and that's why we have some public service. It's to get something done that wouldn't otherwise be done. So I very much hope that this is something we can move forward with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520122231	The next brief remark is to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520122235	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. We from Siumut do not always agree very much with the Left, but I would nevertheless like to thank you for a very good dialogue, where there are also some concrete solutions to some of the problems and there is an understanding of the problems we are raising from Siumut. One of the problems is the very construction of the Kingdom community, and how some of the responsibilities lie in Denmark, and other responsibilities lie in Greenland, and who should be the first to take care of an update of laws etc. etc. And one of the concrete proposals we have put forward by Siumut, among others. in the Parliamentary Chamber, but which is also going to be brought up to Inatsisartut this autumn as a Siumut proposal, is, of course, that we make this Parliamentary Council. Or we might call it something more concrete, but it should really be about us having some sort of committee-like council, boards, in Greenland, which will have that specific dialogue with the Danish Parliament about some of the things to be done, and now the rapporteur himself brought up some of these things. Can the rapporteur comment a little more on some proposals or ideas which the Left also has on how to strengthen that part of the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520122352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520122356	I think that is also why I mentioned the rapporteur in the speech that the rapporteur's ideas are very sensible and that this may be something that could be taken as a starting point. My experience is just quite specific, that there are too few here in the Folketing and too few in Inatsisartut who know who has the right to serve, what it is for some areas that are taken over and not taken over, how we get to grips with the problems and how we talk about it. Because when we sit and talk, we are, I would almost say, agreed on 90 per cent. of things that we need to get to grips with. Much really goes just lost in translation, or what you can say, because we don't get to talk about it, and we don't know what the process is for us to get things started. And there I think that an idea such as that put forward by the rapporteur that we will meet on some specific issues on which we agree and that we will talk about what we are moving forward could be a very good start. Then I think it's just that in this world with everything that's going on and all the changes that's going to happen, it's just so important that we get to know each other and that we have a relationship that makes us not misunderstand each other and that we can work together constructively. However, changes need to be made, and it will have to be in the coming years, and it is only important that we build up some confidence, and it can also be that we have a little closer relations between the different politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520122503	There were no further brief comments to the rapporteur. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I would like to welcome the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party. It's sir. Karsten Hønge. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520122517	We, who follow Greenland and the Faroe Islands closely, tend to be frustrated, almost so damned by the lack of interest in the Kingdom community in Danish media, but please stop for a fantastic year we have had. The TV series "Borgen" sent Greenland into hundreds of thousands of Danish homes. Documentary broadcasts on television were followed up with serious and reflective conversations also on television between people with both knowledge and something at heart. Several podcasts also deal with Greenlandic topics, and finally several exciting books have also been published over the past year, both trade literature and fiction. I look forward to the same progress being made when it comes to the media's interest in the Faroe Islands. Given the importance of the media, I would also like to acknowledge to such an extent the role of Denmark's Radio in the roll-up of the spiral scandal in Greenland. Another black chapter in Denmark's relation to Greenland is exposed. It is raw, it is unforgivable when Danish health authorities have cynically committed attacks on young Greenlandic girls and women by setting up spirals without consent. And whether the reasons have been the widespread poverty, the high infant mortality, the many single teenage mothers, the incest, arrogant Danish authorities, or it has been to save money, it is a scandal that needs to be thoroughly investigated. On the other hand, I am a little surprised that it has to be a Danish media that reveals this horrible story..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But it is good that it has come to light, because responsibility lies in Denmark. We need a statement which sets out everything: how many girls and women experienced the abuse? How many live today? What kind of compensation should we expect? Where did the decision come from? Who are responsible? I think we should take the step fully and not let ourselves again be surprised and shocked by the circumstances of our common history. We need to clean up and there should be nothing swept under the carpet. The bodies need to get out of the closets, so to speak. Whether it should take the form of a commission of inquiry as the forerunner of a reconciliation commission or something else means less. But we need to clean up our relationship, whether it is the spiral scandal, the experiment children, the unclear conditions surrounding adoptions, the forced placement of Greenlandic children in Denmark, the exposed conditions of Greenlanders in Denmark, whether Greenlanders should have the status of original people in Denmark, the use of the Danish language in Greenland's schools, health care and police or something else entirely. Because I certainly haven't mentioned all the sensitive themes. I love the kingdom community, but it must be a community of mutual respect and eye-to-eye a community for which all parties choose. Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark must work together, I believe, in a new and different binding way. We have a chance to show that we are serious when we talk about modernising and democratizing the relations between our three peoples, the three small nations that achieve much more when we are together than individually. It's just not a forced marriage, so if anyone wants to get out, yeah, so be it. The only thing that is untenable is mutual distrust and accusations and the idea of giving each other reasons, which often do not exist. I think we need to clear the playing board and put the pieces in a new way. Here and now we need to involve each other much more in processes of common interest, so we need to move forward as quickly as possible on the joint meetings of parliamentarians from all three parts of the country. Common knowledge and dialogue are also the way forward in new policy areas such as: school policy and the forthcoming media reconciliation. That is why we must all be flexible and dynamic and stretch our hands to each other to hold onto each other instead of using them to push us apart. On the other hand, I also think that narrow-minded flat-minded nationalism and hate speech are stupid, no matter when and how it sticks its head out. The question we have to ask ourselves is: what can we do in the Kingdom community so that all three parts of the empire themselves find the Kingdom community so attractive that they choose to stay there? And once we have answered that, we will have a stronger kingdom community and thus the opportunity to match the Great Power Rival in the Arctic, whether it be Russia, China, Great Britain or the United States. And let us then beat a large thick stake through the myth that Denmark has a desire to hold on to Greenland and the Faroe Islands, because we should have international strategic interests. It sounds so intuitively right that Denmark should have an interest in being connected to other parts of the kingdom, among other things. For security, military reasons, and because we have a greater voice internationally and in this way perhaps could also have greater influence, but Denmark is just a small European state without such strategic considerations. Denmark has no strategic interest in the Arctic without the Kingdom Community. As long as we have a kingdom and a community of kingdoms, Denmark naturally has strong interests in the Arctic, but otherwise not. That's the order. It is because of the Kingdom community that we have the interests; we do not have the Kingdom community because we have strategic interests. We could choose to spend the amount of money and the presence of military and police and search and rescue on any other foreign policy activity elsewhere, but no, Denmark's interests in Greenland and the Faroe Islands are based on our common history and the thousands of family ties that hold us together, and that we are three small nations that reach much longer together, and that there is higher ceilings both physically and mentally in all three countries. On the other hand, it is quite obvious that the United States, Russia, China, Great Britain and France have interests at stake. It makes no sense to transfer that thinking to a mini-put state like Denmark. The fight against climate change and for a sustainable environment must be top priority, because the temperature in the Arctic is rising twice as fast as the global average over the last 5 years. It is the Arctic that bears the consequences of decades of irresponsible treatment to the climate and nature. In this regard, I thought it was a great pleasure last week that I was finally able to see Greenland's Institute of Natural Resources' new research ship • Tarajoq • docking in Nuuk. The 235 million. DKK, which the ship has cost, represents Greenland's biggest investment in research, and there is good reason to be proud of this. Now shrimp and fish stocks are being monitored and this will provide a scientific basis for sustainable exploitation of marine resources. Then we'll just wait for our own DTU to finish the research ship. In practice, we must extend the foreign policy sphere of Greenland and the Faroe Islands, and this can be an important step towards a kingdom community with more equal value and respect, a kingdom community with a future ahead of it and with the frustrations and dissatisfaction behind it. Both Greenland and the Faroe Islands have legitimate ambitions to be involved in all processes and decisions, and Russia's attack on Ukraine casts shadow over the Arctic. The war in Ukraine has dramatic consequences all over the world and very much in the Arctic. There we have to bear in mind that in the vicinity of 4 million people live in the Arctic region, but have a wide variety of options for determining their own future. It is necessary to deal with those issues despite the international crisis, and Denmark must always be on the side of the rights of indigenous peoples. When the activities of Arctic Councils and other international cooperation bodies related to the Arctic are turned down, other players come into play. Tomrum will never be an option when big interests are at stake. That is why we want to see NATO turn up, and the European Union wants to make even more of the consulate already planned in Nuuk. For many reasons, China has still maintained its balance with Ukraine, Russia and the West, but the situation is unpredictable, and at some point, if the opportunity arises, they will certainly try to put their foot in the door of influence in the Arctic, and Russia can go and become their ticket into the region. Whether it will be in the form of an alliance or loose cooperation with Russia is impossible to assess, but just the reality that there is instability and unrest over the formal bodies will increase Beijing's government's appetite to find ways to influence. For a long time, China has defined itself with this little cryptic concept of near-Arctic state, and they are likely to turn up their great-power ambitions in the region. A number of countries, including China, have adopted national Arctic strategies, yes, even Greece and India have adopted some. But France and the UK, in particular, do not hide their ambitions for influence. Denmark's position stands and falls, and of course with the role and ability of the Kingdom Community to hold together, and unfortunately it has not yet succeeded in writing the common strategy, but now we have to move on to it. In relation to the current crisis, however, I think it has been rather sad to follow the somewhat slow implementation of the legislation on sanctions by the Faroe Islands. The Arctic ice melts, new shipping routes become available, and future mining becomes easier. But the political cold fronts are pulling together. We stand best by strengthening the cohesion of the Kingdom Community, NATO and the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123507	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. First, it's from sir. Sjúrður Skaale from Javnaðarflokkurin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123514	Thank you for a very committed speech with a lot of meat on it. The rapporteur is also very committed to the debate on these matters and has been out with the rake, as he was also in the speech here, and has criticised the Faroe Islands' foot-to-mouth when it comes to imposing sanctions on Russia. And, of course, the rapporteur is perfectly entitled to have his strong opinions on that; of course, I also have my views on that. However, I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur would not agree that the same sanctions have been applied in the Faroe Islands as the European Union has implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123557	Fortunately, we have seen that private companies have rolled out their sanctions. I have also followed the Faroese debate and can see that there is also a great deal of difference between the parties in the Faroe Islands. There are also Faroese parties who believe that this has gone too slowly. However, I acknowledge and am pleased that private companies thus save the Faroe Islands' honour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123612	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123616	It is quite true that some large companies have declared that for moral, political or ethical reasons they will withdraw; others have withdrawn because it is not possible. However, nothing has been done by political forces that are not in sync with what the European Union is doing, after all. It is progressing slowly, but it has not been politically opposed to what the European Union is doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123642	No, fortunately that is true, and I am fully aware that the lag man was quickly out with a general announcement that sanctions were being supported, but that does not change the fact that I am surprised that it may take so long to implement that legislation. And that's only a few weeks ago Russian ships docked in Thorshavn and got full service. I don't think that's so lucky.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123701	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123710	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur was also in Greenland, and I also saw that the rapporteur had stars in his eyes to be back in Greenland, so it was nice that the rapporteur came along. I would like to hear what the rapporteur got out of joining Future Greenland. What were those learnings that, like, came from the participation in Future Greenland, seen with SF's glasses? Another thing is that we agree that there is a need for more knowledge about Greenland. It's really good to see these podcasts and stuff, but how do we keep it alive, and how do we ensure that in primary school there will also be some more knowledge about Greenland and the Faroe Islands in the future? I think that is also important to keep in mind, so I would like to hear the rapporteur comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123752	What I have with me first and foremost from the conference Future Greenland is the energy that lies in many companies, so that so many private companies not only from Denmark, but also from Australia and Canada so much want to work with Greenlandic companies; that is, the lushness that was in the desires to seize the opportunities that exist. That's one thing. The second, on the other hand, was the lack of such a concrete political direction, in relation to what one wants from Greenland; in other words, the collision that we experienced several times when companies say that they really want to get started, but that they need such concrete objectives and concrete action from the political side. I thought that was interesting. But I am very optimistic that there were so many who wanted to contribute. And then I think we have much longer to go in relation to enlightenment in our primary and secondary schools. I am very excited about the new high school class where you are in Greenland, in the Faroe Islands and in Denmark. But much more needs to be done in primary and secondary schools and vocational schools, because there are huge opportunities there, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123852	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123855	Thank you very much. I would like to agree with the rapporteur that a direction is needed, and that is also one of the things I mentioned in my speech, especially when we talk about green energy, tourism and defence. These are the three areas in which I see a huge need for priority to be given, as well as a political approach. Another issue that I would like to address very briefly is this with the continental shelf project, because with the war in Ukraine and the Russian actor I think there is actually a matter that we need to give a little more political attention, and that is the battle for the North Pole. How does the rapporteur think that the war in Ukraine can affect the work that is in relation to the continental shelf?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520123941	It's incredibly exciting and very precisely asked because one thing is that we have now put outside Russia outside the door of the Arctic Council, but the challenges are still gone. So, of course, we need to do certain things in relation to the war in Ukraine, and we need to take those measures against Russia. It does, however, mean that there are other things that are just lying and not being solved. After all, the challenges must continue to be met, and that is where we have a huge challenge. And there's the Arctic Council kind of like a brilliant invention. It is difficult to see how we can get to the root and resolve these problems together, now that we have, like, paused the work of the Arctic Council.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520124019	The next brief remark is from Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520124023	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. It was also mentioned that we have just been to Greenland at the conference called Future Greenland. And Future Greenland is kind of a commuter to these DI conferences that you're also holding. Now we want to stand by the fact that we are red, socialist parties, and all the times we have been to Greenland so far, we have later in the Greenland Committee considered that we will soon have to have some dialogues with the working class. So I would just like to ask what SF's position is on that. For the last time we met in the Greenland Committee, there was not the greatest support for the criticism that also came from Siumut that we will probably have to have a little more about the working parties, SIK and the working class, when we then also come to Greenland to meet with the Greenlandic population. I would like to hear the SF's position on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520124124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520124127	I must admit that Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam there catches me at a sore point, because this is the first time I've been to Nuuk without having a meeting with SIK. Every time I've been to Nuuk so far, I've just met with SIK consistently just to get information along that path. This time my program was so close that I just didn't make it. However, there are obviously some challenges to be caught there because the Greenlandic class society is so dramatic. In other words, many of the Greenlandic employees are very poorly paid, and the level of training is too poor. So having a dialogue with SIK is absolutely crucial. And as I said, this is just the first time I haven't met them when I'm in Nuuk. But we must have dialogue with the trade union movement in all possible ways. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520124209	Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520124213	It is so that when we from the Siumut party have talked to other workers' associations, such as KNAPK or SIK, we also find out that there is a completely different picture than if we only talk to the business community, among other things. In relation to how one can also read the statistics on the level of education, which are actually much higher than that which is also just being exhibited. However, I would also like to ask the rapporteur very quickly what was said about indigenous peoples, i.e. that the Greenlanders might have to be recognised as an original people in Denmark. Now we are already recognised as an original people in relation to ILO Convention No. 169. So I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520124250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520124253	What I said in the rapporteur's speech was, firstly, that we in Denmark must always stand firm to the rights of indigenous peoples when they are at stake as they are in the entire Arctic region. It's one thing. And secondly, it's one of the things I think we should clean up. Because over the years I regularly hear the discussion being raised that as a Greenlander in Denmark you also want to have a status as an original people. And there are more nuances in that, for many people do not think that is a good idea. I just think it might be good to conclude on that debate. So it's one of many other things I mentioned that pops up like that all the time. Then comes the desire, and then some people stand like that and are a little surprised at what this discussion is and what they should think about it. I mean, so far I've heard a lot of people speak against it, but I haven't done my own job as to whether it would be a good idea. Because I also believe that it deprives a number of Greenlanders of rights if you do not just have it as Danish citizens. But it's one of the many things that are rocks in our shoes and that we need to figure out what we think about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520124344	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge and thus thanks to the Socialist People's Party. The next rapporteur on the platform is Mr. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520124357	Thank you, President. Thank you for your statement and thank you for the many good speeches. I think there are many things that go the right way in our community. As several people have mentioned, there is a greater awareness both in Greenland, in Denmark and in the Faroe Islands about our history and, not least, about our present • what we have together, what we can get together and what we have had together. Documentaries are being talked about, and there has been a new "Borgen" season, and there have also been a number of podcasts and debates. I have never before been invited to so many debates as now about the Kingdom Community, so that is a good thing. I also feel that there is more cooperation than there has been for many, many years, and as the Prime Minister also stressed, when visiting Nuuk and Thorshavn today, it is almost Chinese conditions in the sense that there is a rapid development of business policy, in terms of infrastructure, etc. And finally, I also feel that we have taken on our common history in a new way, including the difficult dark chapters and also with a new Danish recognition of the places where we have failed. All that is good, but it is also quite obvious that there are areas where there are still things that could be better. As I said to the Prime Minister, I am pretty concerned that the young Greenlanders who come to Denmark for a short or long time will have a better entrance to Denmark and a better stay with the opportunity to get more out of it both professionally, culturally and humanly than is the case today. And I fully agree that the vast majority of Greenlanders are just down here to work and so on, but I think there are also some particular problems that arise in relation to the culture that young Greenlanders, who sometimes stay here for many, many years, come with. We have also seen examples of discrimination that are worth addressing. So this is a theme that we would like to address. In the area of foreign policy, we are also in the process of creating a parliamentary forum between the three Foreign Affairs Committees, all of which agree that there should be. Now all we have to do is find the right time and place. There I look forward very much to having an in-depth debate on security policy on our relations with each other and our common role in the Arctic. Then there is the whole difficult theme that is about the things that have happened in our past. I just got home from Nuuk myself. Sometimes in the Danish debate one can see that there is such little impatience: should we not move forward? And shouldn't we look forward? I myself have a touch of it because I think that so much is pressing, including today's major challenges, on which we should use our political energy. However, having discussed it here for many years, not least in the last week with Greenlandic colleagues on top of this fairly appalling story of the spiral campaign, which at any rate came completely behind me and also shocked me, I have also become quite convinced that it may well be that a more systematic approach to the common recognition is needed. What the format should be for that and what the right approach is, I think must be based on close dialogue between the different parts and all the parties involved. For me, it will be important to seek, if necessary, a common recognition in order to have a common trust to think about, so as to try to turn all the stones around, as regards all the responsibilities that all parties have had from both Greenlandic and Danish sides in the course of time, in order to learn more about ourselves, but also, of course, in order to be able to take on the responsibilities which are certainly greatest for Denmark, but which of course are also due to all sorts of other circumstances and are the responsibility of other actors. The duality with regard to the responsibility of the Greenland authorities too, I think it is important that we get into this storywriting, also to learn more about how we do it in the future. But there is at least an openness from this point of view to discussing what is very close to Greenland. Finally, I would like to make a last thought to the Prime Minister. Now it was Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen who mentioned it there with legislation that, like, lags behind, and there is also something about infrastructure in Greenland. And I think a little often that I find that ordinary ministries in Denmark may have a little less touch with the kingdom community than you naturally have in the Prime Minister's Office or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where you deal with it as a resort, and that there are little too many holes around. Is it possible somehow to change that? Because I believe that if we are to lift up the Commonwealth and our Arctic strategy and our common role in geopolitics, it will require that we have a more full record to play on. I am glad that the Prime Minister, together with Múte B. Egede, has launched these new projects on hydropower, and it is, as I understand it, in the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Supply. This is a good example of the fact that there is a lot out there in the Resort Ministries, which is important for us to manage, and that we should actually be aware of how much the decisions we make mean in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, and that we are up to date and prioritize it. Those were supposed to be my words, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520124937	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a number of brief comments. The first is for Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520124943	Thank you for your speech and also thank you for your cooperation. Some of what I think has been quite thought-provoking when we look at these various cases that have been in history... the experimental children, the legal orphans, the illegal adoptions and the spiral campaign... it is that it has typically been women who have been at the forefront of that struggle. When I have seen these broadcasts with the history of Greenland and Denmark, it has been quite interesting for me to see especially the last one, which is about the role of women in relation to the development of modern Greenlandic society, and there I think it is really a reflection of the childhood I have had in Greenland myself. My experience is that many of the women in Greenland who have been front fighters may also have been more adaptable to modern Greenlandic society and have been able to see the enormous benefits of living in a more modern society. I think that is quite thought-provoking, partly because it is positive, partly because it also means that there are some men we need to be aware of in that development, and I mean that, in fact, still away, and I actually talked to a citizen about that when I was in Greenland. So there's for me to see a task there. But generally speaking, what does the Radical Left think about what we can do in the future? Because there is no doubt that we have to relate to history, but there is also a desire in Greenland that we look forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125109	Those were some really exciting and interesting considerations. I have no doubt, both when we look at it historically, and when we look at the current situation in Greenland, that there is a gender perspective in this, which we also need to learn more about. I agree with that. I do not think there was much romantic about being a woman in settlements in the old days, and I also have the understanding that women largely ran the modernisation, you might say, of Greenlandic society and embraced it, but it was also one of the things that could be fun to learn more about. Today we see me as well as in Denmark when we look at which children it is that do not learn to read, who do not get any further, that there is also a gender perspective there. We see the boys in a particularly vulnerable role, which could also be exciting to look into, and that is, perhaps because the modernisation of Greenland meant a very large gender change, which was difficult for the men who were the hunters in the old days. It is women who are now apparently ready to take on new roles in the new society. But what I'm bringing here is more conjecture. It could be exciting to learn more, to look ahead as well, what it takes to get even larger parts of Greenlandic society in, and here there is something equal, because we face the same challenges in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125225	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125229	Thank you very much. I grew up with a single mother, who is a feminist, and I remember that my teddy bear was used to fight for even more crèche places, and my grandmother sat as a social committee woman, and Gudrun Chemnitz, who is also part of my family, was a very well-known woman, and as chairman of the women's association she was very much involved in developing. So I actually see myself as a modern feminist, who would also like to participate in the inclusion, which means both women and men, and help ensure that the role of men in Greenlandic society is also something we may be a little more aware of. Because I think they have been having a hard time, and perhaps in a way they have had a harder time, because they have lost an identity by going from being big-timers in a village to living in a housing block in the big city and thus perhaps lost the whole role they have had as a man. So I just think it's an interesting perspective to be aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125330	I am very, very much in agreement with that, and we could at least agree quickly that this was something worth working on. It can be said that it is double, because there is no doubt that a very large proportion of the abuses and problems of violence that are in Greenland are caused by men and go beyond women, you can say, but there is no doubt that if you look at it this way socially, it seems as if there are more problems when it comes to learning and training, in the boys group than in the girls group. So it's a complex theme, but certainly something we could learn more about together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125402	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale, Javnaðarflokkurin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125405	Thank you. Now it has happened that we have the invasion of Ukraine, and then the European Union has adopted these sanctions packages, which are a security policy measure. The Danish side has said very clearly, which I think is a good and necessary thing: we do not put this down over the Faroe Islands; it is something that you decide up there. And then there are treatments in the Standing Committee on Security Policy. It is a Danish area, but it has been politically moved to the Faroe Islands. In fact, I do not want to say a revolution, but it is a very big change from a few years ago that we are simply dealing with security policy in the Faroe Islands. This may then lead to the fact that you do not always get the same result as in Denmark, and then you can have a realm which, although you agree on the most important thing, can also speak with different voices on security policy issues. Normally it is said that when it comes to security and defence policy, one state speaks with one voice • there is one line; there is no doubt about what one thinks. Now we can have a situation where the Danish rich speaks with different voices, have different opinions. Does the rapporteur know other examples of this from other states and does the rapporteur believe that the kingdom can stand up to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125525	It is true that this is an extremely complex situation. That's it for most people. And it is also true that we are seeing more and more examples of trade policy, telecommunications policy and all other policies having geopolitical and security implications. And there is not much else to do, I think, than what we are trying to do together, namely to work more closely and more closely together on how we deal with it, and closer and closer together on defining what then is, you might say, the common foreign policy of the Kingdom. It is still my belief that we are more united as a voice on the outside than we stand separately. I know that I do not agree with everyone in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, but that is my view. But it is also quite obvious that we have to involve the Faroe Islands and Greenland far more and far earlier than we have been used to, and also take seriously what the attitude is. With regard to the radar now to be on the Faroe Islands, could it have been imagined that it was built if the Faroe Islands really did not want it? I find that hard to imagine.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125628	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125631	Thank you. I fully agree that this is contradictory. And I fully agree that of course we have no different interests in terms of security policy; there is no difference in what interests you have. But it is also very important for the community to function, to leave the decisions that are important for the Faroe Islands to the Faroe Islands. It is not a dispute over the emperor's beard, because it is important that you feel: we are in charge. This is true even if you decide what you would have decided in Denmark. Because then you would have the problem if the decision had been taken in advance, even if it were the same result. However, there is also a risk that different statements will be made, different decisions taken in different cases. I think, and I do not know what the rapporteur thinks about it, that one must learn to live with ^ sometimes a kingdom divided by the most fundamental things, namely security policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125722	Well, actually, I think that sir... Sjúrður Skaale formulates it very elegantly. So, I have no doubt that basically we have the same security policy interests about low-voltage and sustainable development for the benefit and pleasure of the people who live in the Arctic and in the North Atlantic. But it is also quite obvious that there may be cases and areas where we, qua that we are geographically different and have a different business structure, have different interests, and we have to deal with that from time to time. And all parts must be prepared for this, including Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125753	The next brief remark is to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam, Siumut. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125756	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for the meetings we also had in Greenland the other day. I would like to touch on a few points, among others. the cooperation, i.e. the construction that we have with regard to, among other things. the proposal that Siumut makes with regard to a parliamentary council and that we need to work together. After all, we have seen that Greenland has taken direct responsibility for some responsibilities that the Danish Parliament carries out in relation to some legislation, among other things. By saying: Now we in Greenland would like to have in relation to e.g. the measure for the judiciary, that penalties for crimes against children should be increased by 50 per cent. So there are a lot of things there that are also being taken care of. I would really like to hear a little bit about the rapporteur's thoughts on how we can strengthen that part of cooperation. Could it be through a similar parliamentary council, or are there any other ideas behind it by the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125857	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125903	As a starting point, we are open to discussing virtually all possible constructions that can help strengthen both the individual parts of the Kingdom Community and the Kingdom Community as such. It is clear that when one makes new such more formal designs as now the Contact Committee, or if one should make some kind of advice, one must of course always ask oneself how much more one can gain by using our powers to establish it rather than doing what we can within the framework of what we can today. After all, it is a special construction with four North Atlantic mandates in the Folketing, where there is a government in Greenland at the same time. In other words, it sometimes gives rise to some interesting situations, and especially when it is not the same parties who sit here who sit in the respective governments. And if we can find another, you might say, equal way of making it work, I will not rule it out at all. But unfortunately, I don't have the structure inside my head, at least immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520125959	There is a follow-up remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520130002	Thank you for your answer. But that's exactly what it was. I have just been to Greenland, and I have followed the work of the Greenland Parliament, where I can see that there is a lot of talk, but there is not a single committee up there that deals precisely with the responsibilities that you have to assume from here. One idea was just to talk about the fact that there are times when there is a lack of action that there must also be some kind of advice up there that can take care of it in the Greenland Parliament. But from the Danish side there are still Greenlanders in Denmark who are voters and who vote for Danes who run in Denmark. After all, it is your constituents that you also have to take care of. It is Danish citizens with Greenlandic background who are experiencing discrimination, and here we have also talked about whether or not we are discussing it. could introduce something with minority rights to ensure that language, etc. is also justified in the light of legal certainty. What does the rapporteur say about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520130058	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520130059	As far as the last part is concerned, namely how we guarantee the rights of Greenlanders living in Denmark and that they live a good life and are not subjected to bad things but, on the contrary, have the opportunity to participate in society, I think we could do more. And I believe that we should have an increased focus on that. I would very much like to discuss this further with the rapporteur and the Greenlandic parties. As far as the latter is concerned, I think it is only now that I understand the question correctly. In other words, the areas that Greenland has not taken home, but where legislation is then adopted with importance for Greenland too, yes, that dialogue is clearly worth strengthening. I certainly think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520130138	Thank you. The next brief remark goes to Mr Beazley. Edmund Joensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520130141	Thank you. Thank you for a good speech and thank you for your great interest in making things work in the Kingdom community. We have talked in the past about cooperation between parliaments. My question is this: is that work going on and how far are we in that work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520130209	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520130210	I understand, sir. Edmund Joensen's question, because it was some time ago that we started to have a good dialogue on it, and thank you very much for the support that has been provided by the rapporteur throughout. The fact is that there have been two shifts in the Greenland Government and, at the same time, there has naturally been a new constitution of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This has meant that there has also been a replacement of the President. So I have not been in contact until the last week with my new colleague from the Greenland Foreign Affairs Committee, who, fortunately, is very interested in making such a format. And we have been promised by the Faroese Foreign Affairs Committee, as the rapporteur knows, and it is therefore my hope that we can find a time right after the summer break when we can set up the first meeting of the three committees.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520130259	Thank you very much to the radical rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520130315	Thank you. I have enjoyed the historical films of the last few weeks. I think it is a brilliant new style that Denmark's Radio has found to tell stories in. Now they have taken one more step by saying that it is a co-production between Greenland and Denmark, where you then have two journalists who go in and out of history. It both works what can be said to be interesting, but I also think that it makes you smarter. I have many friends who, through the broadcasts and the debates that follow, have increased their interest in Greenland. And then I can say that in the last round of negotiations on a media agreement that started here at 8 a.m. 13, the Commonwealth is mentioned in the text that I have seen as the last. I shall not say who has brought the text in, except that it is in the agreement now and hopefully there will also be in the last negotiations. However, the public service agreement with Danmarks Radio also states directly that special attention should be paid to the Kingdom community and Nordic cooperation. So that is the way we are doing, and I think that very good has come out of it. But it can be better and, above all, the more sensitive issues should be dealt with better. But otherwise I would say about the statement that it is good that we have put a few tables into it so that we can also see a little how things are going. Now it is only tables about the Faroe Islands and Greenland, but the other one is at least available to us in the Folketing. We have a new government in Greenland, and that is where I would say that renewable energy, economics and international trade and climate have been strongly placed, and I think that is really, really good. With regard to the climate, I would just like to say that we are working in countries that perceive themselves and that we perceive as developing countries with something called climate aid. We give this because it is important that we recognise that it is the rich countries that have created climate problems with our extreme emissions of CO2 That is why we must of course help them 1) to protect themselves from the damage caused by climate change, and 2) that they can make as much effort as possible themselves to derive less CO2 That is why I do not think we should say: What are you doing about your cars in Greenland? There will be a solution to that. But especially the initiative taken by the new government in Greenland in relation to renewable energy is worth noting. And there will probably be threats from climate change in Greenland too. I know that both Greenland and the Faroe Islands benefit from climate change in terms of fishing in the first place in the short term, and we can then rejoice that there is also a little economy for the challenges ahead One thing that I find exciting is the section on foreigners. We have discussed the Faroe Islands in the past and, as far as I remember, Greenland's desire to take some of the refugees because they say they have the capacity to do so. It has been rejected by changing Danish governments because it was believed that they were not able to handle it. But I think it is now a new round that we are going to have here, and I think that the Danish Government should also think that it is perhaps a much better idea to discuss with our friends in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland whether they have room for or need some of the labour that comes to our country than it is to discuss reception centres in Africa and such things it is a much more positive approach. Then why do we have the Kingdom community? I think it's somewhere in the middle of sir. Karsten Hønge's explanation and then the explanation that we have a history and past together. There are both security and economic interests for Denmark in cooperating with the Faroe Islands and Greenland. It is wrong to say that it is primarily an expense, because there are a whole lot of great, great benefits. And I think that Danish ministers are so much traveling around and what to say show that we are a great power because we work with countries that are doing themselves in the Arctic. And we shouldn't hide that, because that's really what it is. What is so important is that the development, where Greenland and the Faroe Islands have more influence on things, is quite natural. I fully agree with Mr. Sjúrður Skaale in that there must be more room for manoeuvre in the cooperation and that it is actually a strength. After all, we are moving from more formal cooperation to genuine substantive cooperation in the field of foreign policy. And I remember from my time in the Danish Parliament that it was almost what to call it if you can't find a Danish word • haram It has changed entirely by itself for the last 8-9 years, and I think it is positive if it can continue. Equality can get better. We have to say that. And that forum, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentioned, is of course important, so it will not only be talk in the Foreign Policy Name, but it will actually be a practical way of discussing it together, which is why I told the Minister. For it was the government that started the debate on the strategy, but then it stopped again, and I said that now we could not discuss it further. Precisely at a time when all three entities in the Kingdom Community are discussing, I think we should do so too. It's colonial time. It is not only our three countries that have a common past that should be dealt with; it has immensely many countries. Some do so only after the second or third or fourth generation, and we will also take it more systematically. However, I am very much in favour of Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's proposal to make a commission or a committee or other committee to deal precisely with these things in a more systematic form. Because it is not very appropriate for there to be a new problem, hoof, which we need to address on the spiral campaign, illegal adoptions and so on. It is not right for the victims to sit back and say that the courts must decide how much compensation is to be paid. And then the government admits it, and then they say: hey, no, that's probably not right, we'd better pay a compensation anyway. I mean, we need to have a little system in it. It is not dignified for some to get their right first, and then they say afterwards that they may not have been given so much right that they can get compensation. Of course they need a replacement, and I think there should be a framework for that. I also think that we should have solved the problems of justice in Greenland, both in relation to the waiting times in the courts, but not least in relation to the waiting time for the punishment to be served; not so much regard for the person who has violated himself as for the victims who go and have to look at an assailant or something else. We need to find a solution to that. And even though a beautiful facility has been built in Nuuk, we have to try to find the right solutions. Finally, on security and foreign policy. Of course, there are great-power interests that play out in and around Greenland, especially in the Arctic. After all, the United States performs a kind of mild cultural imperialism... we would at least have called it that in the 1970s... but it may be more a competition for souls when the United States spends 10.4 million by 2020. US dollars and 2022 12 million. several US dollars for civil society in Greenland. It is an attempt to say that if you like us, we would also like to value it financially. And it is in direct competition with Denmark. I hope that Putin's attempt to weaken himself, that is, his self-destructive way of working as a national leader, will also mean that he will have a weakened position or will not be there at all any more after the terrible, but hopefully short war that he has set in motion. It also means that we cannot simply say that he has created a new situation; we must also build something else on it. And it doesn't have to deal with guns. It may just as well have to do with how we work together in the Arctic as well. We need to find ways, because we do not need nuclear weapons in the Arctic, and we need to try to stand together to say: cooperation must continue on the basis of low-voltage, and this must be done with the best regard for the climate and those who live there. We must not give up on these three principles regardless of what they are. Whoever's going to represent Russia, we'll have to see. Hopefully it will not be Putin or his rulers, but some others with a more democratic attitude to things. That is why I think there are some options ahead of us. As soon as we have that war stopped and as soon as we help the Ukrainians rebuild their country, we probably also have a new position where Putin is weaker, and we must use it as well as we can for something good also in the Arctic and in our cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520131339	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520131342	Thank you, and thank you for your speech and for your cooperation. I would actually like to comment on some other things first, because I actually think that there are some positive stories that are also important to be told in the Kingdom community. One is an action plan against racism. There I am very pleased with the cooperation that is with Enhedslisten, Radical Left and SF, in relation to the fact that Greenland is also being thought into the work, so I would like to thank you for that. And then I also know that the Children's Act is in the process of being updated, so I actually think it is quite important to get on the field, because it is something that many of us have been fighting for for many years, and it is right back from the beginning of the 1960s. However, some of what the rapporteur also mentioned is the area of foreigners, and that is the whole of this relationship with Russia and the war in Ukraine and such things. And I have to say that in Greenland, the law on foreigners has not been updated in the last 20 years, and that means that there have been very, very many tightenings of the Danish legislation, which I think must also be taken into account in relation to Greenland. So it's just a little flag I'd like to hoist there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520131451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520131453	Thank you. I fully agree that a lot of good things have happened. I see the Children's Act as a start to something that I think we have to say is not just something that has been done with that initiative. We must have many years of systematic initiative there, and the Greenlanders themselves must take care of this. But I think we need to make a version 2 and a version 3 when we move on. As far as foreigners are concerned, I certainly recommend not to implement the same austerity measures in Greenland as have been introduced here in Denmark, because they are detrimental to the people who want to be in the country, and we have integration problems created by the law and not created by the people who come here. And that is why we should not just try to make the strictest law in a country. So let the Danish People's Party and others do it. It does not suit a social democratic government to drive such a hard line. And I would like to pay tribute to the government for at least realising that this is not how we treat the Ukrainian refugees who are now coming, on the contrary, we have loosened in a number of areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520131558	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520131600	Thank you. It is not to deal with Danish refugee policy, because that is not really what I am doing. But I relate to Greenland, and I see a need that you don't have a barn gate, but that you kind of let it in and create a proper framework for this area. So that's what I really want. And then I would say that the world has become more insecure, and I also think that we are looking at a future that may well become even more uncertain, and that also requires, of course, that we cooperate and we have this close dialogue. I think it is absolutely crucial for the development of Greenlandic society that there is also this good dialogue with Denmark, but that Greenland is of course listened to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520131639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520131640	I therefore agree that the world has become more insecure at least close to it. But there have been many wars farther away. Try to think that I met some Palestinians the other day who said: Well, it's really good that you're doing everything you're doing for Ukraine, but what about us; we've had 30 years of oppression, occupation by the Israelis, and Denmark's just talking about it, Europe's just talking about it • When will you make the same effort? And there we have to remember that uncertainty is not just about weapons. Uncertainty is about a lot of other things, and there you can prevent wars. You can prevent conflicts, you can have a better relationship with your neighbors, etc. in a completely different way than we have today, and that is what we are appealing for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520131732	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520131749	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for a thorough statement, in which I first of all bear in mind the joy that the Faroe Islands' economy as well as Greenland's seems to have got through the pandemic well. In particular, the countries were hit hard by tourism. For example, the number of nights spent in the Faroe Islands decreased by alarmingly 43 per cent. It is also impressive to see how quickly the Faroe Islands have recovered from the sudden economic loss of fish exports following Russia's invasion. My speech today will be about the defense of the kingdom. Greenlandic politicians as well as Faroese politicians are very concerned that countries should be involved in everything that has to do with the kingdom's defence. I warmly support this request, and I think it is a good thing that the government is making a great effort to do this. The question I have to ask here, however, is what Greenland itself does in relation to the Kingdom's security and defence. Because if Greenland wants to be involved in these matters, for which Greenland has no right in relation to the constitution and subsequent management laws, then of course something must be given back. If you want to enjoy, you must also give. And I do not think that Greenlandic politicians are particularly interested. Just take the military service, which I have been talking about for years, every time I have advocated that young Greenlanders and convicts on an equal footing with young Danes should, of course, serve military service and thereby contribute to the kingdom's defence. But every time I bring it on the field, it's just from Greenlandic side, it's adamantly shook on the head. I will return to the matter of military service a little later in the speech. But one thing is the individual soldier, another is the economy. Because I believe that the Greenlandic Government sees the defence of the Kingdom and NATO as something that can be profited from by Greenland, i.e. that the United States has to pay its own rent, because it is present in Thule, while the rest of us, on the other hand, are forever grateful to the United States and NATO, because with their commitment they are helping to protect the whole kingdom and thus Greenland. When I hear the demands made, I am surprised that Greenlandic politicians can seriously think of wanting to punish the United States economically, because the Americans from Denmark's occupation in 1940 and NATO since 1949 and until today have protected Greenland as a natural part of NATO and thus defended Greenland against as well Nazi Germany as the Soviet Union and today against Russia and China. I have to ask what Greenland actually does in relation to the security of the kingdom itself. Or to put it another way: how can one feel the joy of the Greenlanders being part of the kingdom's defence and part of NATO's, where one is happy to be protected, without contributing neither personnel nor financial? I have to say that the sad answer is that Greenland does nothing special either for the defence of the kingdom or for the NATO community. The Greenlandic demand for payment to be protected is, moreover, unique compared to many other countries where the United States has troops. Nowhere else has rent been required. At present, for example, in Germany alone, there are 30,000 US soldiers distributed on a number of bases, and in none of the cities there have been claims for rent. On the contrary, there is enthusiasm in German cities about the presence of the Americans, partly because, during the Cold War and today, the United States is safe there, partly because of the deliveries to the bases from which various German companies and individuals benefit significantly. In Japan there are 50,000 US troops stationed, in South Korea 25,000, and in Italy 12,000. There are a further 50 countries benefiting from the presence of the United States. The latest is that American troops, with British troops, are now in northern Norway for great joy and benefit and without Norwegian demands for rent. All of this is just the opposite in Greenland. On the island, on the other hand, one is angry that the Americans do not pay and pay rent for in total only one base. In Greenland, therefore, there seems to be no concern about the military protection and the help that the Americans have been helping Denmark's defence to carry out for decades. I find it sad that everything from Greenland, when it comes to security and defence, is about getting some extra money. I shall return here to military service, which for me is a symbol, but also a litmus test on the will of the Faroe Islands and Greenland to defend the kingdom. The Constitution, which applies to all parts of the community, obliges any armed man to serve military service. So every man is called to the Day of Defence in the year of his 18th birthday. Danish citizens living in the Faroe Islands or in Greenland, on the other hand, are not required to serve in military service. Thus, the provision that Faroese and Greenlandic men should not serve in military service dates back to the earliest military service laws of 1861 and 1869 respectively. However, much has happened since then, and in recent years in particular, the two communities have seen a rapid development, with self-government and the removal of ever more areas of responsibility. And foreign and security policy, Greenlandic and Faroese authorities are becoming more and more involved. In view of this positive development, I think it is natural to look at whether it still makes sense that Greenlandic and Faroese men should be exempted from military service. In our view, all three groups of people in the Kingdom community should, of course, be part of the defence and preparedness. Among other things, it was... highlighted by the Self-Government Commission, where I myself sat, and which in April 2003 reported on autonomy in Greenland. The Commission therefore wrote that a combination of military service and civil service should be introduced for Greenland's young people. The Commission considered that if Greenland is to exceed the threshold of security policy to be a protectorate with autonomy to enter into a real partnership with Denmark, then the Greenlandic people will not avoid taking co-responsibility and making a contribution to taking care of the Kingdom. In this respect, I am also pleased that there has been increasing interest among Greenlanders in appearing on the Day of Defence. The analysis also applies, of course, to the Faroe Islands, although it is a much more widespread practice, we estimate, among young Faroe Islands, to travel to Denmark and take an education in defence. The duty is an excellent recruitment mechanism for the defense and rescue services. The combination of Greenland's Command and Faroe Islands Command to Arctic Command with location in Nuuk and with a connection element in Thorshavn only supports this development and shows that there is a need for people with local knowledge to contribute to the performance of defence and preparedness tasks in the two countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520132526	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520132529	Thank you very much. Just as I will not let the Danish People's Party answer for Enhedslisten's policy, I will not defend other parties' policy in Greenland either. But I can defend my own, and I can defend my own positions on this defence issue. After all, I would like defence to be more integrated into Greenlandic society, as I have said today. I know there are a lot of people in Greenlandic society who are happy about this Arctic capacity package that was agreed here last week. I hear that there are more and more Greenlanders who are also in the defence, who would like to serve on a voluntary basis in military service. I think we should stick to the principle of voluntaryness and not force people to do so, but see it as something we need to develop quietly instead. I also welcome the fact that the Emergency Response Association in Greenland is very pleased that there will be this emergency training in Kangerlussuaq. So there are quite a lot of people in Greenlandic society who are really happy that Greenlanders are starting to engage and train in this area. So I just want to start by saying that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520132635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520132636	Well, I'm sorry if I cut everyone over one comb. You can't afford that, and neither can I. I would say, then, about being voluntary, that at the moment very, very few people are being forced into the defence, because we do not have such a large military service. At the moment it is about 5,000 per person. years, and we hope that we will have considerably more. But there are still enough volunteers out there to make sure you don't have to force people. I think it will be the same for some years to come, but it is the fact that you have the duty that matters. That is why I also said that it was really symbolic, but also very important, to show that here we stand together, here we have a task together, and here we have a kingdom that we must defend. I think that is the essential point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520132720	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520132721	I actually think that, after the recent agreement that has been reached on the Arctic capacity package, it might make sense to visit again how easy we can make it for young people to serve military service, but do so voluntarily. I am quite open to that. There is actually more internship, there is an obstacle, as I see it. Another area is cybersecurity in relation to Greenland. We've had several cyber attacks lately. We have three who sit on the Digitalisation Board, so there is a great need for a joint look at what we can do to strengthen cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520132757	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520132758	But it's always been voluntary. Many years ago, when I myself was conscripted in the Navy, we had on my ship alone four to five Greenlanders. This was quite normal at the time, and it was not even inspection ships that went north. There were also plenty of Greenlandic young people. Volunteerly, it's always been. But I would like when it can be a duty for Danish young people, and now it is also said that women must also have the obligation to be conscripted, so it is essential that everyone is on board and that it is an obligation that, if the kingdom is in danger, you must.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520132836	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520132839	This is something you don't really want to support the idea that seven years ago, in 2015, you were a single suggestion from a single person in Greenland that there might be rent in Thulebasen. It was a proposal which, of course, was voted down by the rest of Greenlandic politicians and trying to take it up as if it were a new thing is a little fun. But now we have also been in NATO not so long ago, when we also had an orientation journey, and when we also had several reasons why Greenland also contributed a great deal to the common defence that we also have, not only in the Kingdom Community, but for the rest of the democratic world, which is also a very good thing. But would the rapporteur not agree that, as a Greenlander, there should also be as much concern for a perhaps specific danger of population reduction carried out on the Danish side as one might have to be for hypothetical foreign defence?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520132945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520132946	I am not sure I fully understand the question. Well, I didn't understand. Is it possible to have it repeated, just briefly?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520132956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520132957	Well, NATO, when we were travelling, said that Greenland, with its geographical location, the location that America also stands for, and the cooperation that is also right now, and with a view also to the potentials that are with natural resources and much else, in a way also contributes to the security that we must also have in the rest of the world. Nevertheless, DF supports the idea of something that was said seven years ago by a single member of the party, and which was quickly voted down. I think this is a little remarkable, because we would, of course, like us to look at the large whole, the rest of the world, rather than perhaps look at a single example that was voted down seven years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133044	Yes, but to think that just because you are in a certain place and have a significant location means that you no longer have to do anything, either practically or economically, in the context of a defence. I don't think that's fair. I believe that it is necessary to mark and be significant in relation to the fact that young Greenlanders and young Faroese people have to enter military service if they are asked to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133113	Thank you. And in that case we would also like to ask a little about the situation if such a military service were to apply. Let us say that Danes must now serve their military service in Greenland, in Greenlandic, under the Greenlandic flag. Would DF agree to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133131	Yes, but I think that will take many years before it becomes realistic to have enough Greenlandic officers and officers on board a ship, for example. I have no objection to that being done in Greenlandic is also one of the language of the Kingdom community. But in relation to what the command language should be in, i.e. whether it should be Danish, Faroese or Greenlandic, I will probably count on it to be Danish, because it is in Denmark that the core of the military lies and is paid for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133203	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133206	Thank you. Of course, it's about the same thing. The rapporteur said that military service is a litmus test of the will to defend itself, and it is such a small hoop that the rapporteur has had for many years. I would like to know what that will mean in practice. If it is adopted tomorrow, what will that mean in practice? As the rapporteur has said, there are enough volunteers in Denmark to avoid forcing people. As the rapporteur also said, there are a lot of volunteers in the Faroe Islands. I myself have been very committed to the conditions of the veterans in the Faroe Islands and, in collaboration with former Minister Claus Hjort Frederiksen, I have expanded the services that the veterans receive in the Faroe Islands, and this is a fine association. What would be different? Who would feel it, and how would it feel?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133256	Well, strength wouldn't matter. That's why I said it's a symbol. There may come a day when it is valuable also to bring everyone along. But in terms of strength, it would not matter whether there are suddenly 100 or 200 foremen or Greenlanders who should be conscripted and then it will not be because they draw a free number. Fortunately, many people still do that in Denmark. So strength-wise, it doesn't matter. This is very much a symbol that we stand together in the defense of the kingdom. We're not gonna do that now. We expect it to be done by the Faroese and Greenlandic sides at least. I could also have mentioned the Faroe Islands' discussion about radar history, where you were also very concerned about what you got out of it. It ended so well in a way, and fortunately for it. But I've been toying with the idea of what we would actually have done if it had become a no. If the Faroese had turned down that radar, what the hell would we do? Is that how violence and power are supposed to come and get it set up or ask for space to be cleared? I don't think that would have been very fortunate in that way. So we've been lucky so far, but we're still missing a lot of commitment, you might say, from both Faroese and Greenlandic sides.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133405	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133407	In relation to the discussion on radar, I do not disagree with the fact that it has been a little strange to hear that there have been some who have demanded payment in order to allow the setting up of a radar. It is such an internal Faroese discussion. It has ended where it has ended, and I think the rapporteur and I are both pleased about that. If there was military service in the Faroe Islands, it would raise a debate about who should decide where these soldiers should be sent. In the Faroe Islands, the Latting is seen as its parliament. It is the Folketing that decides where Danish soldiers are to be sent. Does the rapporteur see that this may be a problematic discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133445	No, I can't, because that's the way it is with Danish soldiers. In other words, if you are lucky, you can get the military service you want in the city where the barracks are located or where the ship is located. It can be done, but it's not safe. There are still some who do not want to be posted to Bornholm's Host or anywhere else because they live in Aalborg. I can understand that. But you can't choose and choose. You have to take what you get orders to take, and then you have to hope that you get your wishes fulfilled. In the same way, it will also be with the Faroese.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133516	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur must then be the Conservative rapporteur, Rasmus Jarlov. Would it be a wish to keep the speech from down there? Rasmus Jarlov No, I can get up). We have ramps and facilities for it if you have trouble getting up here. Rasmus Jarlov it worked). That's good. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520133542	It's okay. Thank you for the floor to this very important debate, which I am glad we will be held in the Folketing so that we can have a little more in-depth discussion of the challenges and opportunities in the Kingdom Community. After all, the Community of Kingdoms is something that is of great concern to us Conservatives, just as all other members of the Folketing should be very concerned. This is a very long and important and close relationship between our three countries, which we want to strengthen and continue. We also want us to use much more energy over time to discuss the practical challenges, instead of constantly being run up on the big blade, where we have to discuss the big things about whether the kingdom community should go on at all, and whether Greenland and the Faroe Islands should separate themselves. We think we spend far too much time on that. We believe we have found a good balance where there is a great deal of freedom for Greenland and the Faroe Islands to decide almost everything for themselves and at the same time to be part of a community that gives it the freedom to decide so much for yourself. It is very difficult to imagine other constructions where there will be just as much freedom. And I think that the situation in Eastern Europe, Russia's unprovoked attack on a peaceful neighbouring country, shows just how dangerous it is to be outside a community. It applies to Denmark, it applies to Greenland, which applies to the Faroe Islands, that security is achieved by being part of some communities and some strong alliances where one is completely committed to one another. Denmark has a good size to take good care of both Greenland and the Faroe Islands, because we are so big, so you can't run around corners with us. We have a great diplomatic apparatus, we are well connected in all possible ways, but at the same time we are so small that we do not provoke a great power, and that means, for example, that Denmark's presence in Greenland does not pose a threat to Russia, as it will if it does, for example. was the United States, which was present in Greenland instead of Denmark. That is why I think we have a very good size to look after both Greenland and the Faroe Islands. We also have that respect and understanding because we are so dedicated to the Kingdom community, contrary to what you would be if you were part of some kind of community, and we are actually very interested in what is going on up there, and we also understand that there must be that very, very great freedom, and that there are precisely three different countries with their own identity and their own culture and their own need to decide for themselves. I hope that is also understood in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands. That is the intention of the Danish side, namely not to control anyone, but to be together in a community. I also think that we should also take the consequence of choosing to be in the Kingdom community and then respect that way, for example. security policy is determined on, because we cannot have several different security policies in the Danish Empire, we can only have one, and therefore it also has to be determined somewhere from the end. There may be a process where you listen to each other and you have to listen as much as you can to everyone, but you cannot have a realistic expectation that security policy must be determined both in the Folketing and at the same time also be determined in some form of negotiation between the Danish government and the self-government and the national government in Greenland and the Faroe Islands. That is why I think that some of the criticisms that have been made have been unfair because, for example, when we are talking about the European Union, we are talking about the European Union. We have made a security agreement in which we have decided to increase the cost of defence and of security policy in general, we do so knowing that it is a request from among others. Greenland's side, and then I think it is not fair to come and say that you should have asked us, just in formalities, even if a decision has been taken on which one is in favour. It seems like one, I think, sought criticism, although I acknowledge, of course, that one might wish to ask more people before making the decisions. I am also, I have to say, a little • I do not know what the right word will be, puzzled when I hear here today that a member of parliament believes that Denmark has committed genocide in Greenland. It is indeed a violent rhetoric to show, and it is neither very reasonable nor constructive, and it is completely without evidence. There are no people who, as such, know genocide, who could ever say that genocide has been committed because some Greenlandic women have been equipped with a spiral at some point. This has also happened to many Danish women, and I generally believe that when we talk about history, it is important that we remember when things have been going on and then do not compare with how things are going on today, but that when we compare, we compare with how things were going on in Denmark at the time. And there were many things going on in the old days that we think are unfair today. However, we should not compare Denmark in 2022 when assessing things that have happened in the 1950s or earlier. In the case of the Faroe Islands, I would say that I think it is fantastic as well as it is still going on in the Faroe Islands, and I am very pleased to see that the strong Faroese economy is doing well. I also believe that, when you are so rich a country, you can also contribute a little more to the sanctions that the rest of the Western world has imposed on Russia following the very unfair attack they have made on Ukraine, which is a threat to the whole of Europe and which is so reprehensible that it requires a hard response. I would like there to be a slightly faster implementation of the sanctions so that we cannot have the suspicion that things are not going as fast as it might have done with their introduction. Then I would like to say that one of the things we in the Danish Parliament should pay close attention to, and this also applies to the Prime Minister I have also told the Prime Minister earlier that the North Atlantic MPs are being involved as much as possible in the work down here, that there is absolutely the same access to conciliation for North Atlantic MPs as there are for other members of the Folketing, because that is the prerequisite. Because, as I said earlier, we must be able to respect the fact that decisions are taken in the Folketing, and then, of course, the prerequisite is that we are also involved in them in the same way as all other members of the parliament. Perhaps that is where I think the most reasonable criticism could actually be made from Greenland and the Faroe Islands by the way the cooperation is conducted, namely that we among other things. have not involved enough North Atlantic MPs in relevant settlements, police settlements, defence settlements and the like, which are of great importance to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. So that is something we will continue to push for, and I hope that someday it will succeed and that it will penetrate when we have said it enough times. I think I have said this a great many times over the last year, and I hope that it will soon become a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520134439	Thank you very much. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from Mrs. Aki-Matilda Høegh-Dam. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520134445	Thank you. It was mentioned that, when I was on the platform on behalf of Siumut, I mentioned the word genocide, among other things. against the background of the spiral scandal that has occurred. It is so that when you compare with Danish history, where a few individual women or a few individual children have been subjected to some atrocities, it is quickly compared as a justification, compared to over half of Greenlandic women having forced spirals, and children as young as 13 years of age. In other words, if half of the Danish population had done so, perhaps we could have had that talk, especially if it had been, let us say some country like Russia or something like that that had forced the Danish people to do so, but it is not quite the basis of comparison here. So I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether Conservatives really believe that there is a basis for comparison between a few Danish women and over 60%. of the Greenlandic women of childbearing potential.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520134557	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520134558	I think it is completely out of proportion to start talking about genocide; I have to say that. I think it is inappropriate and I think it is unnecessarily escalating for the relationship between Denmark and Greenland to give such indications that some women have been given spirals. I do not know the details of the matter yet, but I would say in relation to the consideration that it is a relatively large proportion of Greenlandic women that this will of course be the case quickly. If you decide one thing in Greenland that goes beyond a relatively small number, it will of course quickly become a relatively large proportion of the population. It's just a question of how to divide the population. If you took a small part of Denmark, you would also find that in that area of Denmark it could be a very large part of women, and that is not an expression of the fact that you have deliberately committed genocide. I think it is quite out of proportion, and I have not seen it documented that there should have been a huge fall in the Greenlandic population because of this which can justify such accusations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520134713	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520134714	Oh, that's not quite right. Now we have seen that it is about 40-50 per cent that the population rate has been decreasing, and that is not just that. After all, genocide also involves many other things, which experts have also helped to confirm in relation to my statements. And we are already used to as women, that there are some men who tell us what it is that is okay and is not okay to do with our bodies. But enough about it. When one says about the inclusion of Greenlandic and Faroese mandates, the North Atlantic mandates, that there is also a cooperative relationship with the Conservatives, I am surprised when there is such reluctance in relation to when the Greenlandic people have expressed themselves in relation to some specific cases. So I would really like to hear: which party is Conservative most in agreement with here in the Assembly Hall of the North Atlantic?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520134802	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520134803	It is very difficult just to jump on to something else when you start by accusing Denmark of genocide and then accusing me of sexism and saying that it is because of gender that I have a certain attitude to what the MP says. I hardly know what to say to rhetoric of this kind, but it is certainly not constructive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520134827	The next brief remark is to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520134830	Thank you. Now the rapporteur said that in the area of security policy, there may well be a process that can be a dialogue, but the decision must be taken in one place. Now it is the case that in the field of security policy in recent months it is the place for Denmark and for the European Union Brussels. The Faroe Islands are not part of the EU. Does the rapporteur think that, because of what is happening now, the Faroe Islands should be involved in the EU by the back door, can one say? Does he think that it is Brussels that should decide what to do in the Faroe Islands and whether to deprive the Faroe Islands of the mandate given to the Faroe Islands by the government in relation to making its own decisions?
ParlaMint-DK_20220520134911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520134912	Absolutely not. The Faroe Islands have their freedom because they have chosen not to join the European Union. I would like the Faroe Islands to choose something else one day, but that is a hundred percent decision of the Faroe Islands. We are therefore not putting any legal pressure, and none of us are coming to say that the Faroe Islands must now do so and so. I'm just saying, I think you should do it. For moral reasons, I think it is wrong that we are not fast enough to implement the sanctions implemented by almost all other Western countries. I think that is too bad, but I am not saying that I actually have something to say about it as a member of parliament, or that the Faroe Islands have a legal obligation to follow rules that are not binding because you are not part of the European Union. So I am speaking frankly about the fact that I think it is wrong from a moral point of view that we have been so slow in implementing the sanctions. But I recognise that it is the Faroe Islands' decision a hundred percent, and I have nothing to say about it, nor do I want it to appear in any way that I am trying or anyone else from Denmark is trying to decide this for the Faroe Islands, because we cannot, and we are not trying to do that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520135017	The next brief remark is to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520135019	Thank you for your support for taking part in conciliation. I think Conservatives have always thought so, so I appreciate that. After all, there is a great deal in the field of defence that needs to be discussed: cybersecurity and a great many other things. And one of the things we want in Greenland is to strengthen the surveillance of the area. We want low-voltage and we want more Greenlanders to be involved in the task. But I would like to ask a little bit about Conservatives' community policy, because I would like to get you out of the bush in such a way as to get you out of the bush in relation to what you really want as far as Greenland is concerned. Do you think there should be more knowledge about Greenland? Do you think that some more initiatives need to be taken? We're approx. 3 years into a parliamentary term. I think it might be quite interesting to know where you actually stand in relation to Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520135111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520135112	I can say so much that I have actually been prevented from launching a community initiative because of the Corona admission rules in Greenland. In fact, I was supposed to have been up in Greenland a month ago, but I was prevented because I did not meet the requirements for entering Greenland. I hope that this summer I will be able to get up there and I would like us to launch our policy up there. But some of the things that are very close to our hearts are to ensure that we have better forums where we can work together and that we have broken down all the obstacles to moving back and forth between our countries, and that we also have more focus on the exchange of education between our countries and, moreover, that the defence will feel like a more integrated part of the Kingdom community, instead of seeing it as a purely Danish matter. It is very important for us that we make it more clear that it is a common matter for both Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. But more details follow.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520135216	Thank you very much to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We are giving the Prime Minister the floor, but we need to clear the platform first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520135230	Thank you for a good debate today. There are things I've disagreed with. Most of the things I've agreed with. After all, I think that the debate has confirmed very, very well that there is a very, very great commitment. I would actually like to suggest that we go ahead with the work, because there have been many aspects, but there have been no problems which cannot be resolved and which cannot be dealt with. I think this confirms that some of the moves we have made in recent years have been the right ones. We've gotten closer. We have closer and more binding cooperation at government level, and there is a desire to have parliamentary cooperation as well. I would then suggest - if that is what you want the Danish Parliament to go ahead with it. But many of the other things that have been mentioned, I think are some that we can handle in the different forums and in the different contexts where we are. So I do not really think there is any reason to prolong the debate any further now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520135325	Thank you, Prime Minister. No one has asked for the floor. As there is not, the debate is closed. That concludes the question. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Thursday, 2 June 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220520135345	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Monday 23 May at 2.30 pm. 9. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
