ParlaMint-DK_20220323130002	The meeting is open. I would like to start the meeting by welcoming our Icelandic guests here today. Today we are flapping with the Nordic flags outside Christiansborg. We do so because today, 23 March, is the Nordic day when we celebrate Nordic co-operation. Today, together with the other Nordic parliaments, we are celebrating the 60th anniversary of the Helsinki Treaty, what might be called the Nordic Constitution, the cooperation agreement between the Nordic countries. The agreement lays down the framework for Nordic co-operation in the Nordic Council and later also in the Nordic Council of Ministers. The world is changing. The very acute situation in Ukraine reminds us once again how important it is for us to appreciate the cohesion and the community of values that I believe we have in the Nordic countries and that we are all pleased about. Nordic defence cooperation remains under development, and in a situation such as this, where the Nordic neighbours need each other, it is important. Norway's Prime Minister, Jonas Gahr Støre, said last week about the Nordic Region when he visited Christiansborg: Some are in NATO, others are in the EU, all are in the Nordic Region. I think that's worth remembering! The relationship of our Nordic countries has deep roots. We share a common story. Our established values and common human vision bind us closely together. Nordic co-operation has a huge untapped potential. The Nordic countries, especially if we work together, have all the prerequisites for being among the world's leaders in research, innovation and, above all, the green transition. Together we are actually the eleventh largest economy in the world. Common Nordic efforts and the Nordic tradition of peace prevention work and conflict resolution can contribute to security and prevent new crises. Among other things: That is why we are marking Nordic co-operation today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130211	Today there are the following reviews: The Minister of Justice (Nick Hækkerup) has informed me that he wishes to do so pursuant to Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement on the use by the administration of coercive measures and information obligations outside criminal procedure. R 13). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. On 16 March 2022, the Tax Committee presented a report on initiatives by the Tax Committee's Parliamentary Working Group on Entrepreneurship. 13). The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. I shall then inform you that I have a question to put to you. 3 (S 608) to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, Ellen Trane Nørby (V), is deleted at the request of the co-author himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130255	We shall now proceed to the reply to questions sent to the Minister and the first is to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly, and the questioner is Mr. Morten Messerschmidt from the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmide.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130303	Thank you, President. What is the Minister's position on the British model with a minister to combat loneliness, and can the Minister imagine the same solution in Denmark with the aim of setting up a network across the country of people who, in cooperation with local civil society, can help especially the elderly out of loneliness?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130331	Thank you very much for that and thank you very much for the questions that I am very happy to receive. After all, loneliness is a major problem, not only in England, to which the questioner refers, but also here in Denmark, and it is a growing problem which I believe we, as a society, will have to deal with. It is not the individual's problem or something to be ashamed of; it is something we have to deal with as a society. I think that the time during the covid-19 has in many ways been a magnifying glass for social isolation and loneliness, which too many Danes and indeed many older people live with in everyday life. There were many Danes who were lonely before corona, and during the corona closure, the isolation and loneliness of some has only become deeper, while others have fallen into loneliness, and the group of people who experience loneliness has also become wider. I would like to say very clearly that I believe that together as a society and as a country, we should have an ambition that far fewer Danes should be lonely. That is why I am very pleased that the parties, among others. The author's party, with the autumn agreement on the social, health and labour reserve, has set aside 73.1 million. kr. kr., which should go to precise interventions that counteract the loneliness and loss of function of older citizens, and with a special focus on the elderly, because here we have a special challenge. I think, like the questioner, that it is very interesting to look to England when it comes to combating loneliness, and that is why I was also recently on a study trip with the Red Cross and the Elders Case... it was last month to get inspiration with home. We met, among other things. with the former Minister of Loneliness, the world's first of its kind, Tracey Crouch, which the honourable Member refers to, is also about. I think that there is a lot of good experience over there to build on, and we have, of course, launched this work together with the autumn agreement, so that we will have a national loneliness partnership which will have to draw up a proper strategy. One of the most important things I took home from England was two points. One is that this cannot be reduced to a single minister or ministry, because then we will not succeed. The second is the focus on the very, very local, to which the questioner also refers, which is crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130540	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130541	Thank you for your answer. It is clear that we do not have the tradition, as the British do, of having ministers with such a limited resort, but, on the other hand, the British have a tradition that it is not precisely defined, so that we can then agree on what would be regarded in a Danish context as the domain of others. It is rather like having an equal opportunities minister in Denmark too, but that does not mean that equality is not something that concerns both the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Employment and all sorts of other ministers, and that is why I really think that, in a Danish context too, the model that the British have here should be considered with a real minister for combating loneliness. I had the privilege earlier this week to visit the bridge builders up in Aalborg, where Dansk Folkeparti's councilman Kristoffer Hjort Storm had asked me out, and it was extremely exciting, because at least in my optics it is very similar to what the British do. It's about getting civil society activated more than I think it's about finding many, many millions. Of course it doesn't matter with money, but what really matters is that you have a network where, if you are lonely, you know where you are going. It may be that there is a volunteer in the local library, in the local church or maybe just on a bench in the park, where you can go and say: I could use someone to talk to, I haven't talked to anyone in perhaps weeks or months, is there anything I can? And then that person can say: Well, now you're gonna hear, you want to play bowling, or do you want to play whistle, or do you want to be a senior co-worker in the Scout movement, or what do you want to do? So somebody's tying it together. But, and I think that is just as important, because there may be some taboo in it, and you may not take the initiative yourself, there should also be some places to go. If your neighbor, or if you just know someone on the road, who you can see all the time just staring into the TV and never having a visit, where things may start to get a little cuddly, etc., then you should be able to say: " Can't you get hold of Mr. Jensen downstairs. 7, 'cause he needs it? All this is missing in Denmark, and I would like to see the Minister be a little more specific.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130750	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130752	Thank you very much for the speech that it was actually a long way off. I think that a great many very, very right and also wise things are being said, if I may say so, including the fact that there is taboo about it. That is also why it is so important that we state from here that it is a social problem and that we have a role to play as politicians, among other things. in supporting the local communities, which I think the questioner so well describes in many different ways, that is to say to have access to being something for each other. In addition to the national partnership, we actually set aside funds for local partnerships in order to develop precisely some of the ideas to which the honourable Member refers. It is just before we have to scissor the questioner's speech and give to the actors who are going to work on this, because I think it actually hit the head very much in terms of what we should be able to do as a society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130835	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130836	Of course, the Minister is very welcome to do so. But I'm asking because it's easy enough to give money in goose eyes. Well, then there's the whole thing about them coming from somewhere, etc. We will take that at that time; there are some financial rapporteurs who are very concerned about it. But it's all about making things work. And if you are now engaged in your community, in one of these associations, then I really don't think you need money to help, because that's what you want to do. You could say it carries the pay in itself. And society obviously has an interest in this, both to get people out of loneliness, but also to avoid all the secondary damage it causes. So I would like to ask the Minister: when can we expect this national network to be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130910	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130911	Thank you. Well, I think the questioner is saying the right thing again. Not with all the crowns in the world will you be able to make up with the existential feeling that is if you are involuntarily alone. We can only do that for each other as human beings. But we can support bringing people together with civil society and perhaps also with the public sector. And I believe very much in the partnership model, and that is also why we are setting up a national partnership so that it is not the questioner and I and our colleagues in here who have to provide all the answers to exactly how we make this work and how we bring people closer together, but the players themselves, who are out there, who are in the sports associations, who are in the Scout associations and bridge clubs. And that work is about to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130948	Sir. Morten Messerschmide for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323130949	Thank you. But when will there be a coordinator? So, is there going to be a handbook so that you can sign up somewhere and be such a kind of loneliness fighting sambass door, so that you are the one who is responsible and can just walk around and talk to people, keep an eye on people and make sure something happens? And again it's easy enough to give money, and there's no one in here who thinks loneliness is great. But when are these networks coming out there so that people have a place to turn? I mean, is it gonna be on this side of the summer break? Will it be this year? When's that gonna be?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131024	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131025	As the author also said, it was a dyke when the British Government made its recommendations. I think there are 60 different specific policy proposals here. I know that there is a wealth of good efforts and initiatives already in quite a lot of civil society organisations that we have already discussed here. One could add the congregation councils and other actors who matter and already make a difference today. And that's why this has to come if you ask me from the partnership, so the two of us, the questioner and I, aren't standing here today and agreeing on how we think the cake should be cut so that it works well. Those solutions must come through the partnership.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131059	Thank you. The question is over. Thank you to the Minister and thank him. Morten Messerschmide. The next question is to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, and the questioner is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131109	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131112	Why did the Minister not consider it relevant in previous answers to § 20 questions to indicate that the Government has also asked the Danish Veterinary Consortium for different scenarios when reopening mink breeding, when this would immediately have given a more complete picture?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131125	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131126	Well, first of all, thank you very much, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen to ask the question here. It is true that I have recently answered several Article 20 questions about mink. The questions here have been whether the government, in considering the resumption of mink production, will include animal welfare considerations. I have replied that public health considerations are essential for the government in relation to the resumption of mink production. It has always been, and it will also be, for the government when the decision to resume mink production has to be taken. There, too, it will be the focus. That is why I have also replied that we are awaiting the Statens Serum Institute. They must re-evaluate the risk to public health when mink production is resumed. The risk assessment from the Statens Serum Institut has now been commissioned by the Ministry of Health and it is clear from the order that the Danish Veterinary Consortium will be involved as appropriate. Following the Ministry of Health's order to the Statens Serum Institut, the Danish Food Authority has sent an order to the Danish Veterinary Consortium to assess possible relevant infectious measures when resuming teams of mink. As the questioner probably remembers, there were several consultations last year on this particular subject. I even think that the questioner was among those who had called for these consultations. Here I said several times that other professional capabilities than the Statens Serum Institute can be involved. I have also said this quite clearly several times in several consultations. However, this is not, of course, an issue for the recent replies that I have given, where the focus has been on animal welfare. That's why I've been focusing on it. Right now we are awaiting the experts' assessment, and when we get a new risk assessment from the Statens Serum Institute, we will have a political discussion, and I look forward to that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131314	Torst Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131315	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. And the Minister quite rightly remembers that I was one of several members of parliament who called for consultation on the question of who should be involved in carrying out a professional risk assessment. And the fact that I take note of the fact that the Minister, in his reply, highlights the SSI and not the Danish Veterinary Consortium, stems precisely from the debate we had last year, where it is important for the Left and a number of other parties that the strongest professional assessment is, of course, also based on the inclusion of the Danish Veterinary Consortium. That is what I was referring to when I read the answers to the § 20 questions referred to in my question, i.e. that the Minister only refers to the SSI, it is not also mentioned that there is an order at the Danish Veterinary Consortium. I am, of course, pleased that the Minister today confirms that it exists. This will help to provide an adequate basis for decision-making for the parties to take the decision to resume the mink industry in Denmark. If, then, the Minister himself highlights this about animal welfare, I would ask the Minister to elaborate on what I am referring to, namely whether the Minister believes that animal welfare should be included in the decision to resume mink breeding or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131454	As I also said in my first answer, what has been the focus of government is public health. And when a critical risk assessment came from the Statens Serum Institute, we chose to apply the restrictions that we did in November 2020, and it is quite the same that will be relevant in relation to any resumption of mink production. Then there are political parties at Christiansborg who have addressed the whole issue of animal welfare, and they are in their right to do so. I have said there that what is important to the government is public health. If you want the second discussion, you have to take it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131531	Thank you. Torst Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131533	I am glad that the Minister is a little clearer in his reply today than in the written answers. This may also be due to the fact that yesterday the Prime Minister said that the inclusion of animal welfare, which we all care a great deal about, is not relevant to the discussion on the resumption of mink breeding in Denmark. I am glad that the Minister now states that what was the government's justification for putting a legal profession into the grave was the government's assessment of an SSI assessment and that it had nothing to do with animal welfare and that therefore only the health assessment is essential for the resumption of the mink industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131608	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131609	Now it is perhaps a little early to talk about putting a profession in the grave, when we are talking about just now that there is a new risk assessment coming up that may well show that you can open up again. Public health is the focus. What has been the government's wish is to take care of the Danes in relation to not getting a spooky spread of the covid-19 infection.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131632	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen for the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131634	However, I am pleased that the Minister agrees with his Prime Minister, who said yesterday that it is only a medical assessment that is the basis and that it is not an otherwise controversial report from the Animal Health Council with which the government will intervene. I am pleased that the government chooses to stand by the agreement reached in January 2021 on compensation for the mink industry and that it is clear that we must discuss together the conditions for the resumption of the mink industry in Denmark and that it is only public health that is crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131713	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131714	There is complete clarity in what the government has said in this area. There has been no doubt about that. The Prime Minister also mentioned yesterday in his reply that I was sitting here listening that animal welfare is something that is very important for this government. But when we took the decision in relation to mink, it was all about public health. And it was the case that the assessment before this decision in relation to animal welfare and mink was that you could have mink in Denmark for animal welfare reasons. So it's not because something's changed there. Public health is at the heart of that decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131746	The question is over. Thank you, Minister. Thank you. Torsten Schack Pedersen. We move on to questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, and that is Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131756	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131758	Thank you, President. Does the Minister think that it is acceptable that there is still no possibility of asylum treatment on the Danish-German border, where there are, after all, the most asylum seekers coming?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131811	Thank you for the question. I think that when it is put forward today, it is related to the fact that at this time we see a marked influx of displaced persons from Ukraine, many of whom want to apply for a residence permit in Denmark, also after the new special law. The scheme is linked so that the displaced persons from Ukraine can submit an application at the border and thus obtain the right to enter and reside in Denmark while the case is being dealt with. In practice, it happens that they have 4 weeks to get a fingerprint and have a photograph taken which is the basis for the Foreigners' Authority to process their application for a residence permit. And then it is our ambition that the residence permit can be issued very quickly and that people can be transferred to a municipality in Denmark and get started with a life here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131859	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131900	Thank you to the Minister for not answering my question. In other words, the minister himself has made it clear that a centre should be set up very quickly in South Jutland, that there should be the possibility of asylum treatment close to home. And I think it is as late as 10 February that the Minister, in a reply to the MP Mrs Anni Matthiesen, says: "We are working to find a concrete location of the new centres as soon as possible. And there it is, then, that I ask whether the Minister's view is acceptable that nothing has yet happened. An agreement was reached in January and we are faced with a huge challenge, where Ukrainian refugees must travel a long way to follow up the proceedings, and the Minister himself has indicated that something regional should happen, and why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131952	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323131952-2	You can apply for a residence permit in Denmark on the border, and then you can enter. Then you are told that you have 4 weeks to get your fingerprints, and you can give them in Copenhagen, Næstved, Odense, two places in Aarhus, one place in Aalborg. And it is also my ambition that within a very short time we will also open times at Bornholm, in West Jutland and in South Jutland. In addition, it is true that we have also agreed to open some of these international citizens service centres, and one will also be located in South Jutland.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132030	Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132031	Thank you. I think that most people have followed and that it is well known what the rules are like and what the rules are like. What I am asking is the Minister's action in this area. And when the Minister says that somewhere will be established in, for example, a short time. South Jutland, so that the refugees do not travel as far as they are going today, that is to say to Odense and Aarhus, is my simple question to the Minister: What is within a short time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132059-2	I'm not gonna be able to set a date. I'd like to put some geography on: South Jutland. And it is south of the king's river; the questioner knows all about it. And then it must also be a centre which is not only about refugees, but which actually has primarily the task of ensuring that workers from the rest of Europe and from the rest of the world get a place where they can go and get in touch not only with the immigration authorities, but also with the tax authorities and the other Danish authorities, with whom you as a foreign worker in Denmark need to come in contact. I know that this is very important for, among others, the European Union. The export industry in South Jutland, and this is also the reason why we have decided to open one in South Jutland. There isn't a date yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132135	Thank you. Here's the last question, Mrs. Eva Kjer Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132136	So there is no reply from the Minister as to when the matter can be dealt with in, for example, the South Jutland. You just respond so slightly with the fact that we are working on it being within a short time. Why is it that the Minister is taking so long to make a decision? So, in reality, this goes back a long time, and already on 10 February the Minister indicated, as I said, that something was about to happen. When is soon, and what is a short time? Why is it that the Minister considers it reasonable that these Ukrainian refugees should travel so far to follow up their case-law?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132213	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132214	So, first of all, I must say that I only have an interest in the Ukrainians being able to give their fingerprints very easily. Having said that, I would also like to say that Denmark is a rather small country, and the fact that we already have seven places in our country where you can give fingerprints and get a photograph, I think is actually okay. Nice. Then I am well aware that if the influx becomes very intense, we will also have an interest in opening several places, which is why we have already decided that we will temporarily open up in South Jutland, in West Jutland and on Bornholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132249	Thank you. The question is finished. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Mrs Eva Kjer Hansen. Then we move on to the next question. It's for the Minister of the Environment, and it's from Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132258	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132301	Thank you. How will the Minister ensure that the North Coast Future will be realised in the light of the new additional environmental requirements?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132315	Thank you for the question. The future of the North Coast is a good example of how municipalities jointly undertake the task of protecting a exposed coastline with a coherent coastal protection project. It takes a great deal of effort to carry out such a large and complex project, especially in an area where the protection of a Natura 2000 site needs to be taken into account. The municipalities have the full authority in terms of coastal protection, and this also applies, of course, to the future of the North Coast. They must both authorise the project under the Coastal Protection Act and also decide on a derogation under the Coastal Habitats Regulation, as the project is located in a Natura 2000 area. The question is then asked about new additional environmental requirements, but there is nothing new, because the rules on Natura 2000 have been in force since the adoption of the Habitats Directive in 1992. If there is to be a derogation from the Natura 2000 rules, which is probably required in this coastal protection project, the Ministry of the Environment must give an opinion before the municipality decides on a derogation. The Ministry of the Environment is also in charge of contact with the European Commission, which must either be informed or give an opinion. The Ministry of the Environment has provided guidance to the municipalities on the project, and there is still a close dialogue between the Danish Environmental Protection Agency, the Coastal Directorate and the project, both in relation to finding the most appropriate solution for coastal protection and in relation to handling protected nature. I myself recently had a meeting with the three mayors, where we agreed that they are realising their expectations and wishes for our guidance, and the Ministry of the Environment is now working closely with the future of the North Coast and will also support the implementation of the project in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132508	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132509	Thank you. But the reality is that the municipalities are experiencing this, as if there have been demands that now mean that the project has doubled in price. 150 million kr. This is an additional cost if we are to meet the demands now being made in relation to Natura 2000 sites and the implementation of the coastal project. And it is just the case that the three municipalities agree that if that is the requirement then an extra 150 million. kr. In terms of costs, the project does not materialise. So I just have to ask the Minister: is the Minister still prepared to say that this alone is a responsibility for the municipalities to lift financially, or will the Minister contribute to the completion of this fantastic project that secures the coast of North Zealand?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132621-2	As I also said a moment ago, I myself recently had a meeting with the three mayors, and there I saw a very good cooperation there, a desire that we have some municipalities in Denmark which are precisely responsible for the task of coastal protection. I have certainly not heard any of the three municipalities say the opposite. But of course we also have to help and guide the authorities in this case, both the Danish Environmental Protection Agency and the Danish Coast Directorate. In addition, financial support has also been provided, at present 41 million. DKK, for the project.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132659	Sir. Hans Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132700	Yes, I am aware that 41 million have been given. kr., and that's really good too. It was for the project that was in the order of 150 million. kr. Now the total project with the environmental requirements imposed on Natura 2000 amounts to 300 million. kr. And there is the question: will the Minister for the Environment contribute financially so that this project can be realised? I believe that a great many people, citizens, homeowners and local authorities in the area, are concerned about this. That is why the question is: will the Minister contribute financially?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132736	[Sound emission]... the municipalities and the citizens, as I listen to it, are, of course, that the project can become something. And there has certainly been no recommendation from the municipalities that they do not want to continue working on the project or give up the authority they have in relation to their citizens to secure this coastal protection project. So we have a common interest here. And there has already been support from that pool of state funds for this project, which I also hope will be implemented and where we help as best we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132810	Sir. Hans Andersen, last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132811	I just have to say that the Minister for the Environment is here today saying that the Minister for the Environment does not want to contribute financially to the realisation of the project with the demands now being made to spend 150 million. kr. extra to meet the environmental requirements. And I find that very, very regrettable, because then the project just doesn't turn into anything... then the houses fall into the water. And I really hope that's not gonna happen. So I hope that the Minister will reconsider and contribute financially to the realisation of the project in cooperation with the municipalities and pilot owners on the north coast.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132847	Well, with the MEP of the Left here being locally elected, you could just go home and talk to the municipalities with which I recently met, where we agreed on a comprehensive plan for how we can ensure that this project is on track and that we can help as best we can, from the state side, and where there is also an economic back-up. So the whole thing about making its own conclusions, by the way, is completely detached from what I am saying as a minister, so I stand at the author's own expense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132913	The question is over. Thank you to the Minister, and thank you, Mr President. Hans Andersen. We move on to a question to the Minister for Development Cooperation by Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132923	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132925	Thank you. Will the Minister peace development aid so that expenditure on humanitarian purposes in Ukraine and possible asylum expenditure are allocated in the future bypassing the conventional development aid budget so that aid to the world's poor is not further undermined, while at the same time helping Ukraine?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323132947	Thank you. The situation in Ukraine is truly extraordinary. This is the fastest-growing refugee crisis in Europe since the Second World War. More than 10 million people have fled either internally in Ukraine or out of the country. It is government policy that refugees should be helped in their neighbourhood, and it is also the main priority of the development policy strategy that eight parties, including the Enhedslisten, are behind. Now Denmark itself has become a neighbouring region of a country at war. That is why we have a special responsibility to help. The human tragedy is enormous and that is why, firstly, we provide humanitarian and civilian support to Ukraine and neighbouring countries, and secondly, we welcome Ukrainian refugees here in Denmark. We do both with funds from development aid. There's nothing new about that. Humanitarian interventions have always been a cornerstone of aid. In practice, it has been the case for successive governments over the last 30 years, that is to say since 1992, that the relevant costs of refugee reception as assistance have been calculated in full in accordance with international guidelines. Having said that, I naturally hope that the peace negotiations in Ukraine will bear fruit so that we can use the aid in many of the other areas of conflict in the world, which I am still very concerned with and aware of. However, the current situation is serious and unpredictable, and both humanitarian needs and the flow of refugees are changing day by day. That is why I cannot say at this stage how much money is being spent or where they should come from. On the other hand, I can say that I will keep the rapporteurs closely informed of developments, and I will also be happy to come back here in the Chamber as the crisis develops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133134	Rosa Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133135	I have to say that it is unfortunately not satisfactory to be closely informed of developments. What we are really asking is whether the government will help ensure that we can help both humanitarianly in Ukraine, but also to welcome more refugees from Ukraine, because I believe that we have only seen the tip of the iceberg, without so far, will the government find an extra pool of money for Ukraine?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133209	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133210	As I say, we keep following developments. No one knows how many refugees are coming out of Ukraine. All we know is that it already applies to millions. We also know that they are very much settled in neighbouring countries, in neighbouring regions. We know that 65%. of those who come to Poland remain in Poland because they want to stay very close to Ukraine, and so many have already done so. So that's what we're doing. We're following developments. It is far too early to start thinking in scenarios that the questioner is suggesting here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133246	Mrs. Rosa Lund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133247	Well, precisely because we do not know how this is going to develop, precisely because we do not know how many more refugees are going to come, would it not be a matter of due diligence to protect development aid right now and ensure that our asylum and refugee system is equipped to receive more refugees from Ukraine?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133308	Yeah, and that's exactly what we're doing. And that is also what the special law lays down, namely that we bear a particularly great responsibility and we promise that. What is given now is that we have a scenario in which we are starting from the arrival of 20,000 Ukrainian refugees in Denmark, and that is why we in the Ministry are in the process of finding out how we can make as careful a re-prioritisation of development aid funds as possible. That's 2 billion. kr., we need to find. That's the scenario we're working at high pressure to find a framework for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133338	Rosa Lund for the last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133339	Well, I have to say that the special law does not exactly finance the special law, and that is why I think that what we are asking is actually very reasonable and very short and clear, if it was not a good idea to say that now we are peaceing development aid and putting a pool of money on to help in Ukraine and to help refugees from Ukraine who are not funded by the world's poorest.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133406	What the development policy strategy says and makes clear, and I mention that eight parties, including the Enhedslisten, are behind it, is that we will focus our development policy strategy on immediate areas. We have become close to ourselves, which is why it is also quite natural that we have been in practice for the last 30 years to look into what is development aid when we have to find funding for this part, and this applies, of course, to the 12 months statement of some of the expenditure on refugees coming here to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133433	Thank you. The question is closed. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Mrs Lund. We move on to questions to the Minister for Education and Research, and this has been asked by Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133442	Please read the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133445	Thank you. In view of the application figures for quota 2 in 2022 and the multiannual development of applications, will the Minister help to draw up a recruitment plan for teacher training, nursing training, social worker training and pedagogic education?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133506	Thank you to Mrs Robsøe for her question, and thank you for the opportunity to speak on the subject and indeed also on the subject, when the question is asked I sense common concern about the figures we saw the other day for quota 2 applications in these very important subjects. It is absolutely crucial that we have skilled and enough talented, motivated nurses, social workers, educators and teachers for our health care, schools, daycare facilities and settlements. The quality here is the prerequisite for the basic parts of our welfare society that I think all Danes somehow appreciate and need to work, and that things are as they should be. The people who practice these subjects make a huge difference to so many other people every day. And I take it very seriously that this year's application rate for quota 2 shows falling search for these particular courses. I do not think it is so surprising that the figure is lower, that is, it is at all for quota 2 applications, and there are various reasons for that, but it has fallen particularly in these areas, and that is problematic; that is something we have to say. It is also a complex challenge to do something about it. A key part is to create attractive education, which has high quality and equips future professional professionals for the subject they have to practise in practice, and that is one of the things we can do about politically in the area where I am a minister and for which Mrs Katrine Robsøe is rapporteur. That is why I am also pleased that our parties have together succeeded in finding funding under the 2022 Finance Act for a new, strengthened teacher training, and I would also like to say here that I know that not least the Radical Left also has the credit for having worked for that. In addition, we also have an important task in getting away from the trend in our society that says that the more academic an education is, the better it is, the finer it is, the more valuable it is. We have to do that. Otherwise, we will not reverse the trend in young people's search for training.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133712	Thank you. Mrs. Katrine Robsøe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133713	Well, I very much agree that the people who take these jobs are really, really crucial to our society. However, as the Minister says here, the complex challenges that are involved are that we have seen for years that fewer young people have applied for these courses. I simply do not know whether the Minister has a complete catalogue of ideas on how to resolve it. Since the Minister has not said so in his long answer, I assume that the Minister probably has not. And I also flatly admit that I also don't have a whole catalogue of good ideas on how we just fix this challenge because it's a big challenge. I simply did not hear the answer to the really simple question that was asked, namely whether the Minister will be involved in drawing up a recruitment plan for these courses. I think the Minister should answer that question. That may be because the Minister came to spend a little too much of his speaking time. So I hope the Minister will respond next time. Now the Minister himself mentions that this money for teacher training, which we in the Radical Left, relatively humbly speaking, are a good part of the force behind it, has to go out. When will that meeting be convened so that we can actually ensure that this money comes out? It is not the case that we can simply send out the money and agree on it politically when we hit August at one time. If we really want these funds to help ensure that there are more teaching hours • some of what might be one of the suggestions • when are we going to meet and talk about it? Because I really think that's what's needed out there. At least that's what I hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133907	Thank you. Mrs Katrine Robsøe is right that I came to improvise a little along the way in relation to my speech paper. I would say that considering such a kind of plan can be considered; I think we should consider all the tools. But I think the essential thing is what is in it and what we are actually doing. And I'm not waiting for you to make a plan. We are looking together, our parties, at how to improve teacher training as one of the initiatives to create a more attractive and good teacher education. And yes, we must also get that money out to work this year, and it will be in the near future that we can agree how.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133941	Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323133942	But then I assume that there are calls for meetings on the way in relation to the implementation of the funds, but also that there are again calls for meetings to negotiate teacher training. Because we cannot make initiatives if we do not meet in the circle and talk about it and actually discuss what a new teacher training should look like. I'll look forward to it. Why should the Minister set it up as if we could only do one of them? We can easily develop on something and at the same time have a recruitment plan in progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134018	Thank you. The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134019	Sure. For me, it's not crucial if you call it that. I can see that this is something that is going on again in the debate, but I just think that it is too easy to come up with something new if we do not also try to see what it is about and what it is about. And in fact, in all modesty, I think we are just doing this when it comes to teacher training. As I said, it is in the near future that we can get to grips with that discussion. And then, in society at all, we need to get a different view of the value of these educations and get more people to apply to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134054	Mrs Katrine Robsøe, last question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134055	Thank you. And that's exactly why we need a wider look at it, even than we can imagine when we're in here at Christiansborg. After all, we need to get those inputs out of the rest of society; we need to get their knowledge in and not just think that we will solve everything if we get a new teacher education. That's more good steps along the way. And then it helps to convene those meetings if you really want to change it from the Minister's point of view too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134124	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134125	In this way, I think we are actually coming to an agreement that, no, we cannot solve it alone with education. That is also what I was trying to say in my improvised part of the answer at the beginning. It is also a broader discussion. What we can do as rapporteur and minister is at present. in isolation to this area, and there we will continue to work on teacher training. There is an evaluation of education and training which also gives us some good ideas on how to improve it. And I look forward to doing so, also in conjunction with the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134155	The question is over. Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left. Then we go to the next question, which is for the tax minister. And it's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134204	Here you go for reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134206	Thank you, President. Has the Minister considered the consequences for the country's banking clubs in relation to the agreement that tax should now be paid or distributed for benevolent purposes when banking games are held, and what does the Minister think it will mean for the well-being of the elderly in Denmark if the agreement leads to the closure of banko clubs across the country?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134229	Thank you for the question. I would like to point out that it is my understanding that there are a great many non-profit associations, both large and small, which are actually happy and satisfied with the agreement we have just reached and with us I mean the government and the Danish People's Party and the rest of the Danish Parliament's parties, i.e. all the parties in the Folketing. After all, we have drawn up an agreement which gives the associations clear and simpler rules and even provides for tax exemptions when the profits go to the public service, a tax exemption which means less administrative trouble and more money for the non-profit associations, not less money. Having said that, I have also followed up, and I actually understand very well that it may be frustrating for some banking associations that they cannot continue to offer games in the way they do today. The fact is that many banking associations have never been able to offer banko in the way they do, legally, because they have not donated anything or very little for non-profit purposes, nor have they paid any taxes on the profits, which we must, of course, in accordance with the rules already in force today, in other words before we have concluded this agreement. That is why there is a need to sort things out, and that is what we have done with this agreement, while at the same time creating a framework for the banking associations to legally offer banking games. There we have made this joint agreement on 15 February 2022, which all the parties of the Folketing have signed up to, and which, of course, has just intended to meet some of the wishes that have been of association. After the HORESTA and the Banko associations in Denmark have criticised the political agreement on non-profit lotteries, I and probably also the questioner and many others in the Folketing have received a number of inquiries. And it is clear that we have to listen to that, and that is why I have invited all the parties behind the agreement to a meeting that we will actually be holding tomorrow, where I hope everyone will take those representations with us. And if there are any corners of this that are contrary to that agreement or that can be better done, of course I am open to listening to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134437	Thank you! Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134438	Thank you for your answer. It is a bit funny, because it is not half an hour ago that I had the Minister of Social Affairs answer a question where we were talking about the problem of loneliness, especially among the elderly. At any rate, I was given the impression that it was also the Government's wish to keep its hands on all the activities in civil society that make us combat loneliness. That's one of them. Something like banko associations. That is why I am surprised that in the course we have been through well enough under a former minister, but still with the same government, the conciliation parties, including my party, the Danish People's Party, have given the impression that the agreement reached was fully in line with the wishes of both the Danish and HORESTA Banks' Associations. Because today, when things have been put to the hearing, we can see that that is certainly not the case, and I can say for my party that it is fundamental to our desire to be part of this agreement. So I hear that the Minister is flexible and accommodating and has called a meeting. I am also calling for proposals on what can be done to solve the problem. One of the ways could be to make a kind of third model in the law, where part of the tax that should have gone to the treasury can be dispensed for benevolent purposes or one can significantly lower the tax. We are, in fact, open to that. However, what I would like to hear from the Minister about the fact that I have just stood with the Minister for Social Affairs and talked about what we can do to combat loneliness in the country is whether we agree that this agreement, no matter how it ends up, should hold hands under the banko associations around the country and not shut them down.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134625	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134626	I fully agree that the agreement that has been made was intended to hold hands under and actually create better conditions for those who are also holding a banko game to give money to the local handball club or scouts or whatever it may be. And to many of them, I have noticed in the press, I think we also need to say more clearly that they can in fact not only hold onto the banko games but also actually get better conditions for holding those banko games. Then there have been some shops that have run quite large banko games and joined people without having donated much or almost nothing for a non-profit purpose. These are the people who, in fact, have already run a business today that has not been legal. They have not paid tax on the gains, they have donated nothing for non-profit purposes. It is my impression that there are a great many people sitting in the banko clubs or shops, who, after all, still have to run their business away, but pay a tax. And I am completely open to good suggestions from the questioner and others on that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134726	Then it's mr. Messerschmid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134727	I must honestly admit that I believe that the cost to society will be somewhat greater if you shut down these banking associations than the benefit of implementing these rules. So we're going into this with a desire to find a model where the banko associations can continue their good work. The deal you've made only operates with two models. There is the one that applies to the collection lottery, the Red Cross, etc., and then there is the one that applies to the such land-based slot machines. Why not just make an independent model for the banking associations? It might have solved the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134802	As the questioner himself also noted, this is an agreement that the Danish People's Party has helped to conclude, and that was before my time. So it is difficult for me to respond specifically to what the dialogue has been like in those negotiations. I am open to looking at different solutions. I look forward to having a joint meeting tomorrow. And if there's a wish in the contract circle that's all the parties that we're looking at it one more time, then of course I'm ready for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134826	Sir. Messerschmide with his last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134827	When you enter into an agreement, you do so in confidence that what you are told across the table is also true. And I just have to say that what we have been told about the banko associations' desire for this has not been true. Exactly how it happened and how and why, I shouldn't be able to say. We would like to remain part of this agreement, but only if we get it changed in such a way that the banking associations around the country can last. Otherwise, the Minister cannot count on the support of the Danish People's Party. However, I acknowledge the positive spirit of the Minister, and I hope that tomorrow we will find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134901	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134902	That is not my impression, then, when I look into it I have of course also done so on the basis of the inquiries that have been made that there is any reason to feel deceived. In fact, I believe that there has been a long and fairly thorough course of negotiations. But I am quite open to looking at whether there are opportunities to make a different agreement from the one that has been reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134920	Thank you. Then the question is over. Thank you, Minister. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmide. In other words, we can move on to the next item on the agenda, but I think that it is a little awkward with rapporteurs and, above all, Minister. Would you like to see if there's a minister in the back room over there? Now I hope that those who will participate in the next round will come to the Chamber. Thank you!
ParlaMint-DK_20220323134959	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323135008	The proposers propose the adoption of a law on emigration, the aim of which is to reduce the number of people who have come to Denmark since 1983 as refugees or relatives of refugees. According to the proposal, the law aims to reduce the number of persons covered by the law, with the wording of the law, by 70%. by 2030 compared to 2020. The persons proposed under the law, following the preparatory work for the bill, are persons who, after 10 years of stay in this country, are not successfully integrated. The proposal lists a number of objective criteria as an expression of this. One of these criteria is included in the 70% exit target. The preparatory work also shows that, in setting such an objective, the proposers have been inspired by the Climate Act, which includes: contains a 70 per cent target. reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990. It has also been inspired by the Climate Act with the proposal that a national objective should be set each year for the number of persons covered by the law who are to leave Denmark the following year. Similarly, the proposal to set up an emigration council and also the proposal that an annual migration status and projection should be drawn up, an annual migration programme should be drawn up and an annual statement made to the Folketing. The preparatory work states that these proposals are largely a reflection of the structure of the Climate Act. As far as the proposal, which is a reduction in the complex and dilemma-filled challenge posed by immigration, is concerned, to a simple and easy-to-understand migration target, put into a formal bureaucratic framework, in which responsibility for proposing solutions is pushed to a new immigration council, but also, in reality, without new proposals for the real challenges of integration. The government is preoccupied with both seeing and saying things as they are, for many have unfortunately come to Denmark without becoming part of our society. That is why we must only accept as many people as we can help in this country, in return we can help more and better in the neighbourhoods. At the same time, we want to direct a look at those immigrants, such as those in the United Kingdom. has been on cash benefits for a long time and has never succeeded in becoming a part of society. That is why last year we also introduced a return interview as an important part of the repatriation scheme, in which we focus, among other things, on: the groups who have either been in Denmark for a short time or who have not settled after a long period of time. At the same time, I would like to remind you that a residence permit for refugees and family members of refugees is in any case being granted for temporary stay and must be included if, for example, they are to be taken into account. The asylum base is no longer in place unless it would be contrary to international obligations. The expulsion rules have also been tightened, so in many cases the punishment of freedom leads to expulsion unless it is certain that it would be contrary to international obligations. They also include the rules for permanent residence, which include: In other words, we must not have received public aid for support in the last four years and, contrary to what has been said, we must also bear in mind that refugees and family members of refugees are also affected. The overall picture, therefore, is that the conditions for a more lasting stay in Denmark have been tightened quite considerably in recent years. The protection that we provide to refugees in this country is today largely a temporary starting point. At the same time, there is a broad majority in favour of the external framework for tightening up our human rights obligations. Indeed, a key objection to the draft law is that the wording of the draft law lays down a condition that the number of persons covered by the law should be by 2030 compared to 2020. However, after the proposal, the law does not contain anything about what the consequence must be if that is not the case. Therefore, we must also ask what would apply if the objective could not be achieved, because the persons concerned continue to have the right to stay in this country and where the withdrawal of the residence permit in order to achieve the objective would be contrary to our international obligations. Nor is it quite clear to me how to arrive at which specific residence permits should be included in order to achieve the emigration target and which should not be. On the other hand, it is clear that the proposal does not really offer so many new proposals for the challenges we face. Perhaps that is why the proposers propose putting responsibility for finding solutions in the hands of an immigration council. But I must also say that the creation of a new body in the field of foreigners may not be the best way forward to meet the challenges we face. In fact, I believe that it is particularly important for the area of foreigners that solutions with new angles should come more from the political side and perhaps less from new councils and more experts. I do not think we would have seen a number of the alien changes that have taken place over recent years if the initiative had been put in the hands of councils, experts and boards. On the contrary, we risk that this kind of thing will only be a pillow for parliamentary work in the Folketing. For these reasons, the government cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323135532	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323135534	First of all, I can say that the legal effect envisaged in this law is quite the same as in the Climate Act, which is of a parliamentary nature. So it is a well-known tool, in other words, that if the Minister does not deliver, parliamentary sanctions will be taken against him. Having said that, I would like to hear from you in relation to section 1 of the draft law, in which we propose 70 per cent expulsions of foreigners who have not implemented the integration programme, foreigners who have not passed Danish examination 2, foreigners who have not been in regular employment for 7 out of the last 10 years or who have been on cash assistance for more than 12 consecutive months, who have been convicted of crime with a prison sentence of more than 3 months, etc. etc. what kind of groups the minister would like to hold on to and think should be in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323135628	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323135629	But it should not be the case that, simply because you have not passed a Danish test at a certain level, you must have withdrawn your residence permit and deported. That is certainly not our position.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323135647	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323135649	Yes, those that are involved are people who have come here as refugees or family members and who, after ten years of stay in Denmark, meet the criteria I mentioned before. Does the Minister not agree with me that if you have been in Denmark for 10 years and you are unable to pass Danish exam 2 or something similar, you are unqualified to still be in Denmark and that it is inconceivable that you can enter any form of integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323135721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323135722	But now I have the bill here, and it says that after 10 years of stay in Denmark, one or more of the criteria below are met. So that means that it is a person who is in employment, doing well in Danish society, is a well-functioning volunteer football coach down at the club, never committed anything criminal, but because he has not passed a certain Danish test, he must then be included in an emigration law. I think the Folketing will soon regret that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323135749	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we are going to start the rapporteur's round and, therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323135809	Thank you. With this private bill, the Danish People's Party proposes to introduce a new main law aimed at reducing the number of residents who have come here as refugees or family members for refugees. In addition, it is proposed to introduce a reduction target so that the number of people covered by the bill is reduced by 70%. By 2030. So the bill is inspired by the Climate Act. As you know, there is a 70-percent reduction target for greenhouse gases to be achieved by 2030. However, I think that the differences between greenhouse gases and people are too great for this climate-inspired bill from the Danish People's Party to be sensible. When it comes to greenhouse gases, you can easily cut everyone over a comb. Therefore, one can also have an absolute goal of reducing emissions up to 2030. But when it comes to people, the matter is more complex. That is why I do not think it makes sense to talk about a 70% reduction target. There may be integration problems, but after all there are also many people with roots in the Great Middle East who have taken Denmark to heart and contribute positively. When we talk about those who have not settled in Denmark, we also have other arrangements. We have among other things. the so-called repatriation scheme. With it, foreigners who have not settled in Denmark can get help to return home. We strengthened that arrangement last year, together with the Left, the Radical Left and the Liberal Alliance. This has resulted in better and more targeted guidance for newly arrived foreigners and long-term foreigners. Finally, it is important that far more foreigners who do not have a legal residence should go home. Last year the Danish Parliament adopted a new travel law. Just 3 months after the law came into force, 25 exiles were sent out of Denmark. In addition, the Return Travel Act and the establishment of the Return Travel Authority have contributed to the fact that today there are far fewer rejected asylum seekers in removal positions than ever before. In 2021, the number decreased from 1,155 persons to 806 persons. Social democracy does not support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140002	A brief comment from Mr. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140003	I would hope that the rapporteur could be a little more specific about what some of the groups we mention here in Paragraph 1 he would like to hold on to. Now I could understand that for the Minister it is the football coach who has come to Denmark and is in full employment, but just has not learned Danish, which is the problem. I don't know if there's such a thing that you might be able to pick them up somewhere. But what are the main parameters of this law that the rapporteur cannot endorse? Well, what kind of people do you want to hold on to?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140042	The main overall parameter, which I think is worth biting in here, is the 70-percent objective. That is the part I think is what to say, too categorically. I do not think it makes sense to set a reduction target in the same way as can be done for climate gases. In this way, I do not think it makes sense to have a reduction target when it comes to people. That is probably it, in relation to the rapporteur's question as to what I think is the main appeal in relation to this draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140118	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140119	After all, we have chosen 70% because we thought it contained some sort of flexibility, precisely to say that there was perhaps a football coach or what the Minister was talking about, and then we could say that Fred was with it. What percentage should we have chosen? In other words, how many violent criminals and non-employed people will be kept in the social democracy, that is to say, among foreigners? Well, it's relevant to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140149	We're not gonna keep any criminals or anyone else. On the contrary, we have also tightened up the legislation so that more people are expelled. But now the draft law also states that it is only one criterion, and that is why the Minister mentioned this before that • that if, for example, one has not passed the test in Danish 2, then one will have to be deported as a result of this. And there are several other criteria that have nothing to do with crime either. That is why I think it is too categorical and too unmanageable, and we already know how the Aliens Act, because it has to solve many complex situations, sometimes leads to what we sometimes refer to as crazy conclusions in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140228	No more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund. We move on to Mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140241	Thank you for the floor and thank you for your fine remarks on Nordic co-operation. In the Left, we are in favour of a strict immigration policy where there must be room for those who want to join the Community. And I will personally note that I care that sometimes you think a little differently and have a funny idea. And I can see that one can sit and think that now one makes a law for reducing climate gases and then one will copy it into a law for reducing people you don't think should be in Denmark. It should probably have remained with the idea of social media or perhaps a poster. In the Left, we basically believe that it is important that we make demands on the foreigners who come here. We have no idea that there is a certain percentage to be reduced by. We would very much like people who are not in employment to get into employment. We would also like to make agreements, for example. repatriation agreements which ensure that people who would be better off getting back to their country of origin and starting over there are helped to do so, or that those who are not in employment get into employment. And we would very much like to challenge the conventions which sometimes make it difficult for us to expel people who are condemned to expulsion from Denmark but who refuse to leave. And I guess I had hoped that more attention would have been paid to the issue of climate change rather than making a joke about it. But having said that, we agree with the Danish People's Party that we have enormous challenges when it comes to failed integration in Denmark. This is a group which is very costly for Danish society, and I look forward to seeing that we, together with the Danish People's Party, do not, on the basis of this proposal, continue to make the many minor adjustments to the Aliens Act that make sure that we get people into work and people to continue somewhere else if they do not fit into the Danish society. And with those words, I can tell you that the Left is voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140523	Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no brief comments. Well, I'm sorry someone came a little late, so it depends a little bit on sir. Mad Fugledes's benevolence. Mads Birded Yes, I answer). And it's there. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmide.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140539	Thank you. I'm sorry, it must be the age that's printing. Mads Birded You were placed). Yes, I was just so captivated by the speech that I came all the way from pressing in. What I wanted to ask you was: Mads Fuglede says it's good to think creative thoughts, just not this thought, what are some creative thoughts in the field of aliens that the Left has thought and has made proposals to promote the repatriations during this parliamentary period?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140608	I mean, I expect a great deal from the repatriation agreement that we made, where we have ordered that talks be held with people who, among other things, are involved. are outside the labour market and, among other things, outside the labour market. is from this group that this bill is aimed at and that we can get the number of repatriations up. Every time we succeed in repatriating, we save Danish society a great deal of money, and we help a human being move on to a life that is probably also better for them because they are somewhere they would rather be. So the repatriation law is a good example of that. In general terms, I believe that we have helped to tighten up the area of citizenship and that we have helped to tighten up the law on the administration of justice in areas relating to this problem. So we are actually prepared to look at the many small handles that make us have better foreign legislation than we have had.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140706	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140707	Yes, that may be the difference between the Danish People's Party and the Left. We are more interested in the large handles than the small ones in which the Left excels. However, when the rapporteur says that he welcomes people thinking out of the box, and I ask specifically where we have seen the Left think out of the box, the rapporteur says that it is a matter of personal conversations. I mean, is that the level of ambition?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140731	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140733	Repatriation starts with a conversation and may end with a choice to go back to your country of origin. Most of those who use the repatriation agreement, which I understand the Danish People's Party does not support, which I am sorry, come from Somalia and Turkey, for example, and then continue their lives there. I am thinking of some of the groups that were in mind when this proposal was made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140806	Then I think we can say thank you, sir. Mads Birded. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323140814	Thank you. I can start by saying that when I first got this bill in my hand, I had a little bit of trouble finding out where to start my speech. I had some doubts as to whether I should start my speech by drawing attention to the completely inappropriate, I think, analogy that the Danish People's Party is doing between the 70-percent objective in the climate area and wanting to get rid of 70 per cent. by the Danish refugees and foreigners in 2030. I think it mostly resembles a joke, as Mr. Mads Birde also said before. I think it was a strange situation just before to hear the Minister reading the purpose of it up like this down on the ground, because it doesn't seem at all like something you had to work with so seriously in here in the Folketing. One, the Climate Act, is specifically about stopping the consequences of the human abuse of our planet and, incidentally, it is also a objective of substance, that is to say the 70-percent target, which is bound up with what was deemed necessary in order to comply with the Paris Agreement. The second thing we are discussing now is a discussion that those who have the right to protection should have it, while we need to find a way to sort others out more quickly in the asylum system. So even if you agree more with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, than you are with Carl Valentin, I think that the comparison is irresponsible. I could also have started my speech by outlining how these so-called objective criteria, which are intended to create a proper procedure for cleaning up refugees and foreigners in Denmark, in my optics is a completely irresponsible approach to how we can overcome integration problems in general. Danish society must, of course, make demands on integration and on the people who come here. When you come to Denmark, you have to try to become a part of society to the best of your ability. It is because it has a value in itself and for the individual to be a part of society. This is because participation in Danish society, of course, ensures coherence. And that is also because participation in society ensures the development of a more diverse, democratic and peaceful Denmark. And exactly such a Denmark we want in SF. However, integration is not just a task to be solved solely by those who come here. It is a joint task, and it also depends on us and on politicians who dare to take responsibility for integration. On the whole, I find it ironic that the Danish People's Party, with this proposal, wants to expel people who do not meet integration requirements, all the time that the Danish People's Party, with the paradigm shift, tried to remove the incentives for integration. Then there are probably some who will say that buh hu, it's also just the humanist crying prince over in the SF who won't face the reality, but it's just a frivolous charge, because SF was first on the stain with suggestions on how we could expel more of the criminal aliens. And the SF has also put forward asylum proposals that limit the influx of so-called apparently groundless asylum seekers, so that we can instead focus on those who actually have a need for protection. When we are against this kind of smart in a speed proposal, it is because the proposal is not really aimed at making a concrete positive difference for integration or for cohesion in Denmark, just as the proposal completely ignores Denmark's international commitments. The proposal is a clever way of drawing attention to the Danish People's Party's only real priority, which is that there should be fewer foreigners in Denmark tomorrow than there are today. I think it looks more like some fresh press release or facebook post than it looks like a bid for a real piece of legislation. That's why the SF can't support this attempt at legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323141212	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt
ParlaMint-DK_20220323141214	If so, I have to say that Mr. Carl Valentin's facebook presentation must have an incredibly formalistic character, for this has been put forward in paragraph form and so on. in accordance with the rules normally applicable in the Official Journal. So I assume that is a polemical answer because one does not want to deal with the obvious fact that the immigration policy, which has been conducted for many decades now, has unfortunately gone the wrong way. In other words, despite incredible attempts to get out of the country criminals, workers' foreigners and, by the way, people who pay tribute to Islamism in various forms and so on, it has just gone the wrong way. If you do not want to support this proposal, I really think that the Socialist People's Party owes me some concrete suggestions as to what you intend to do to get those people in section 1 (1). Two out of the country. I don't suppose it can of course be me who is naive, it wouldn't be the first time that it's some people that the SF collects and thinks should be in Denmark, so what do you want to do to get them out?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323141320	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323141322	My reference to the fact that it is irresponsible and more like a facebook poster is not just those bullets that are in the proposal, which are some concrete indications of what needs to be done to get you out of the country. It's the whole basic preface of a 70-percent objective inspired by the Climate Act, which is totally absurd and which in my optics seems more like an attempt to create something havoc than create a serious piece of legislation. Then you just have to say in relation to those many bullets, like mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentions really would be a really boring facebook post, that they are in turn problematic, because they do not take account of international conventions at all and will send people home and break human rights and everything. So there are plenty of problems with that too. How we ensure an asylum system in which people who do not have a need for protection do not take their place for people who really need protection requires a more fundamental reform of our entire asylum system. We need to get away from having a big focus on spontaneous asylum with better distribution of refugees and a greater focus on quota refugee. That is the answer to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323141424	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323141425	Well that was just a bad answer, that is, in case it was even an answer, because what will the SF do to get the criminals and the migrant workers from especially the Muslim countries, who should never have been inside, out of Denmark again? You could also say that you don't want to do anything. That's fine. In other words, we have seen other parties who regard it as a growing electoral potential; that is quite fine if that is the point of view. However, I have just understood that the SF would actually like the second, and then we must also make some concrete proposals. At least we're bothering ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323141500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323141501	In other words, to a certain extent. I have said on several occasions that we are willing to look at the legislation again in relation to criminal foreigners, but it must also be from a point of view that respects human rights and does not go too far. That is why we are very willing to look at whether some of the rules can be tightened in relation to the expulsion of criminal foreigners, because we think it is important that priority be given to those who want society and those who have a need for protection, of course. But we don't have a whole lot of ideas on how to hardcore tighten this legislation, because you have actually gone a long way and we have also been in some agreements where you have gone a certain bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323141535	I do not see any more brief comments; that is why we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Olldag Oldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323141555	Thank you. It may not come as a surprise that the Radical Left is not particularly fond of this proposal either, but now I also have a past in the cultural sector, and there we often worked with some creative processes, and I can recognise the creativity of this proposal. There is something fresh about saying: Well then we take the 70-percent objective of the Climate Act, and then we transfer it on another serious subject such as the entire integration and asylum policy in Denmark. There is something interesting about this, but there is also something completely twisted about it, among other things. Because we don't take one area or another really seriously when we do it this way. That's what Mr. Carl Valentin said, as a little smart in an attempt to get some attention on the issue that has been the Danish People's Party ever since the foundation. If, instead of saying: well, it could not be interesting if we had a 70-percent goal in integration, in employment among men and women, in language acquisition, in education and in the fact that descendants and refugees achieve the same level, for example. come to crime statistics, etc.? Could it not be interesting if that was what we were inspired by and invested in instead of exit centres and those places in exit centres, which cost 300,000 kroner. per person? So in the Radical Left, we would probably want to completely reverse it if we were to follow the logic of this at all. And then there is a fundamental problem, as Mr. Carl Valentin also said, and as the Minister also pointed out, that if we have to follow the specific elements of this bill here, we will break with all the international conventions and agreements that we are already part of. And then we are in a game where, at least, the Radical Left can no longer be in it. After all, these are conventions we have concluded after the Second World War in recognition that countries cannot fend for themselves, but are mutually dependent on each other both for good and for evil, both when it hurts and, of course, when it does good. So if we were to follow the Danish People's Party's bill, we would both have to resign from the human rights convention and, of course, the result of the EU, because the premise of being involved in that business is that human rights have also been accepted. Human rights cannot be dismissed without the approval of all countries, so somewhere else we also have to just shake the head of this bill and say that, although there were 90 mandates in this Parliament that wanted to have a expulsion law like this, we would not be able to achieve that by virtue of all the international agreements we are part of and, in the case of the Radical Left, I would say thank God and thank you for it. And I would also like to say that we are voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323141908	Sir. Morten Messerschmid, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323141910	I just want to say that it is amazing that you can practice human rights as another deity and then know so little about it. So, first of all, it is not true that it requires the consent of other European Council countries before Denmark can withdraw from a convention. It would, of course, be fundamental to the rule of law that Denmark cannot decide for itself which convention we as an independent nation will be part of. Secondly, it is also not right that the Convention on Human Rights has a snuff to do with the EU system; it is under the Council of Europe. And the European Court of Justice has no jurisdiction over human rights and the Court of Human Rights has no jurisdiction over EU law. So it is really just to say that I would deduct if the rapporteur, when putting human rights worship so high, were to be able to be in the disc in a factual way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323141958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323141958-2	After all, the Council of Europe and the Refugee Convention are part of the European Court of Justice in the context of the United Nations Convention on Human Rights and at the time when North Korea, for example, is involved. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. is a number of provisions which also protect refugees in this country, it was, of course, that the United Nations as a whole told North Korea that it was not possible to do so unless we approved it. So there are some procedures in it. One cannot just step out of and into the conventions, as the Danish People's Party has wanted for decades. And it is also paradoxical that the Danish People's Party often accuses me, and now I know that this is not what the rapporteur said to me right now, but that the Danish People's Party often accuses all sorts of other parties of having broken the law on foreigners when it is the Danish People's Party that has swung the tact over foreign policy over the last 30 years. Then it is strange that you are not satisfied with your own work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142052	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142053	I'd say it didn't get much better in the second round. In other words, the UN has a declaration of human rights which has no jurisdiction. Then the UN has a refugee convention which has no jurisdiction. This has nothing to do with EU law, and it has nothing to do with the European Convention on Human Rights. EU law falls under the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice, located in Luxembourg, the Court of Human Rights falls under the jurisdiction of the Strasbourg Court, which is the European Court of Human Rights. I can send it to the rapporteur next time in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142124	I'm paying for a longer lubrication. The rapporteur also knows very well that we have both been in the Council of Europe, where I have not seen the rapporteur go on any of those trips, at least not while I have been there. So the work is certainly not unknown to me in any way whatsoever, but I can hear that the rapporteur and I have different ways of interpreting the work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142141	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142153	Thank you. We must understand from the authors of the motion for a resolution that this draft law on emigration seeks to get as many people as possible out of the country. And frankly, sir, I think so. Morten Messerschmidt, seems a little paradoxical to discuss while, as a country, we welcome tens of thousands of Ukrainians on the run, and at the same time the world is in a huge refugee crisis, and we have been doing so for many years. There are more than 80 million people on the run. I am of course in favour of the fact that the Danish People's Party did not wish to support residence for Ukrainian refugees, but there is now a very large majority in the Folketing behind the special law that we have just adopted. And that's why I think the timing of this bill is a little weird. Whether or not a special law was the right solution in the current situation, I think that is absolutely something we can discuss. After all, I and Enhedslisten have advocated that we should have some general relaxations in the Aliens Act, as this special law clearly shows that our system, as it is today, does not work. I also think that, without insulting anyone, I would like to attribute a large part of the broken system we have in the field of foreigners and integration, the Danish People's Party, to the party behind the bill we are discussing here today. As a matter of fact, for decades the Danish People's Party has deteriorated the reception of people from other countries to such an extent that it seems almost illusory that it is now possible to come here from another country. Integration has become almost a curse word, and society is obviously not going to help people who come here to get the best conditions for life in Denmark. Instead, the focus has been on preventing people from coming to Denmark and, in addition, throwing them out again as quickly as possible. Some of the elements, such as: The special law we have just adopted applies to Ukrainians who, in my optics, should apply to all those who come here. After all, the right to live in their own homes, the right to work, access to basic integration education, to school, health care and education is all elements that provide the best conditions for doing well in society, but also elements that ensure that you can take care of a job and support yourself, that you can interact with the rest of the citizens of society, that you have networks and competences. And these are all elements such as the Danish People's Party and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has helped to ensure that not many refugees in Denmark receive. If we accepted all refugees in the same way, I am sure that the concerns of the Danish People's Party in relation to people who are on cash aid or commit crime could be considerably reduced. The system you have been involved in creating, where there is an A team and a B team, where they and our rhetoric define who is accepted by society and who is not, yes, the system is precisely why we have seen and are still seeing integration challenges for so many years. After all, integration has been virtually abolished. And it seems a little strange that at the same time we are faced with an industry that is screaming at labour and that we are talking about how we can send as many people as possible out of the country, when it would obviously be better use of everyone's time to talk about how we can keep those who live here and ensure that they can also get a job. It may not come as a surprise to the authors that the Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142533	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142535	No, it's not a big surprise. What is perhaps more interesting is whether the rapporteur has read the proposal. Because she spends so much time talking about Ukrainians, which I know has come to Denmark a month ago, and this proposal is about people who have come to Denmark under the refugee rules ten years ago. How do these things come together in the rapporteur's head? I don't understand that at all. The fact that it is like the Danish People's Party, which is the main cause of all the problems we have with Muslim immigration, is, after all, a claim that we often encounter especially from such the extreme left. But is this also true in all the other Western European countries? So is the influence of the Danish People's Party also the reason why it has gone wrong in Sweden, Holland, Finland, Germany, France, Italy? Yes, I do not know whether the rapporteur can mention one Western European country where Muslim immigration has been a success in the last generation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142640	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142641	First of all, I can reassure Mr. Mr Morten Messerschmidt said that I have read the proposal and that, as it is, it is in my head to quote Mr. We are currently in a very serious refugee crisis. We have been doing this for a long time, even before Putin invaded Ukraine, and that is why I think it is a little strange or actually inappropriate that we should now come up with a bill on sending people out of the country. So, there are very large flows of refugees, and they are not only coming from Ukraine, sir. Morten Messerschmidt, but they also come from Afghanistan and from Syria, which we have the opportunity to discuss later today. Then I can't say anything about whether the Danish People's Party has influence in other countries, but I can then look at what influence the Danish People's Party has had in Denmark, and now this bill is about Denmark, and that is why my rapporteur's speech is also about Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142733	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142734	However, it is striking when the problems we are experiencing in Denmark coincide completely with the problems they are experiencing in all other Western European countries that have been careless enough to just open the gates of Muslim immigration since the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s. And what then goes on up in Mrs. Rosa Lund's head to quote Mrs. Rosa Lund, who quotes me, is that when we have problems in Denmark, it is because of the Danish People's Party. It may be that we are on different frequencies, but in my world it makes no sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142810	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142811	Then I can reassure Mr. Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, for example, said that we were going to do something about it. does not blame the Danish People's Party for climate change. So there are certainly problems in Denmark which we in the Enhedslisten neither blame Mr. Morten Messerschmidt or Dansk Folkeparti. However, I would like to say that it is, of course, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and Dansk Folkeparti, who have conducted foreign policy in Denmark for the last very, very many years, and I therefore also believe that it should give rise to some self-examination in the Danish People's Party that we are now facing some problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142845	Thank you to Mrs Rosa Lund. There are no more brief remarks, and that means that we can move on to Mr Beazley's report. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323142855	Thank you, President. I think this bill is really interesting. I think we said the same when it was put forward. I think we all know today that for decades we have been far too relaxed in our foreign policy, more precisely since 1983. Too many have come here through the asylum system, which has never returned home again, even though there is peace in the country of origin, too many have committed crime afterwards or are long-term unemployed. The six points in this bill describe this very well, with a focus on crime, poor Danish knowledge and unemployment. So the intention is, in fact, well-supported. The reality is that, unfortunately, because our rules have been far too relaxed throughout the 1980s, the 1990s and the 00s, many of those who have come here have just been granted permanent residence, citizenship, even though crime has been committed, or there are others who still have refugee status and who cannot therefore be sent home, and that is why, as several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, we are concerned about the fixed 70% reduction or repatriation of this bill. The reality is that unfortunately we cannot legislate with 40 years of retroactive effect. Having said that, to underline our sympathy for the legislative proposal here, let me remind you of some of the resolutions that we ourselves have on the way from the conservative side, for example. permanent residence is made conditional on the absence of crime or long-term unemployment, the setting of a ceiling on the number of permanent residence permits granted, so that people who do not commit crime, who have a job and teach Danish are put in the front line, that they cannot have permanent residence if they have committed serious crime in the first place. We will also abolish some of the fast-track schemes that exist and which, in particular, young people make use of in order to subsequently commit crime. This applies both to permanent residence and to citizenship, and I hope, of course, that our new rules will be adopted and that they will help to reduce the number of criminals and the long-term unemployed. Unfortunately, however, there is no guarantee that it will affect the 70% that the Danish People's Party here wants. I would say that if the rules which we are proposing in the Danish Parliament very shortly had been in force since 1983, then in fact I believe that a large proportion of the people concerned here by the Danish People's Party had never received permanent residence or citizenship. However, as the reality is that we cannot legislate with 40 years of retroactive effect, unfortunately I expect that we will not be able to support the legislative proposal as it stands here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323143126	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth, and the next rapporteur is from New Citizens. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323143136	The Danish immigration policy is absurd. We let people into our country and grant them a residence permit, family reunification and the right to public support, although we could have helped them and many more much better in the neighbourhood. We accept that some of them become criminals, abuse our hospitality and exploit the generosity of the Danes, and we gradually turn them into immigrants with permanent residence permits and the right to lifelong support. This has proved to be a really stupid way of conducting foreign policy, and changing governments have tried to patch up the system over the last few decades in order to eliminate some of the harmful consequences. But it has not solved the problems. It is time to tackle the root of the nettle and solve the problems from scratch, to introduce a stop to spontaneous asylum and to ensure that migrants from distant regions cannot obtain spontaneous asylum in Denmark, to demonstrate criminal aliens consistently and to demand that all foreigners in this country support themselves. If they can't, they'll have to leave. It's simple, and it's fair. With this draft law, the proposers want to introduce a law on emigration that reduces the number of unintegrated immigrants and foreigners. The bill is a parallel to the Climate Act, and the aim is to set a general objective for the expulsion of unintegrated aliens. In New Citizens, we share that wish. We share the desire to ensure that foreigners in Denmark integrate themselves and that foreigners who are unintegrated travel out. It is quite unacceptable that foreigners who commit serious crime should be allowed to stay in our country and that foreigners can live for years on passive support funded by the Danes. That is why we support the proposal. However, we have doubts as to whether the proposal will have sufficient effect and therefore also bring forward an amendment which will correct some of the shortcomings of the proposal. Is it reasonable, for example, for a foreign national to be able to live on passive support for eight years before he loses his residence permit under the bill? And why is it only 70%? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We want to make that right. That is why we will be tabling amendments in committee to the effect that the objective towards 2030 must, of course, be to deport all criminal foreigners and that all resident foreigners support themselves. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323143415	Thank you. And there is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323143418	We do not, in fact, disagree with that. Well, it's not like this is trying to prevent the Danish state from showing more than 70%. of those mentioned in § 1. This is kind of an attempt to commit, so that we get to it at least. I would therefore just like to acknowledge, first of all, that we support the proposal, but also ask whether Mrs Pernille Vermund does not agree that this could be a timely way of putting political pressure on us to reach 70% at least, even though Mrs Pernille Vermund and I would like to see a higher figure.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323143452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323143453	After all, I think that some of the comments that have been made in today's debate seem a little strange, in other words, one can support a climate law, which is nothing more than a declaration of intent, by setting ourselves a common objective: we must reduce emissions of climate gases by 2030. But at the same time it is said that we cannot set ourselves an objective which is that the foreigners who are in Denmark are naturally well integrated, and if they are not, then we must ensure that they are expelled. I would like to see them all deported, as the rapporteur also says, if they do not want to integrate, or if they are convicted of serious crime and are sentenced to three months' imprisonment or if they live on passive support. But to set a target of 70%. Surely it must be reasonable. And we are talking here about foreign nationals, that is, we are talking about citizens who have lived on passive support for years when they are expelled, and also about foreigners who need to be sentenced to prison to be expelled. So I agree that it could have been a step along the way. But it also sounds as if there are parties that think that climate policy should be pursued, but not in relation to foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323143559	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323143600	Well, I'm glad. So we agree that there's nothing in this bill that prevents the authorities from showing more than 70%. of them, but that would be a good start.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323143610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323143612	After all, the authorities are only showing those whom they have the legal right to expel, so this requires that we in the Folketing are willing to change the legislation so that we show more foreigners by crime, and so that we also require foreigners to have a residence permit to support themselves. So it all falls back on the will and courage of politicians and politicians, and one can then be in doubt if that is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323143639	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the New Citizens' rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Susanne Zimmer. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323143704	Thank you. I can just say quite briefly, clearly and clearly that the Free Greens cannot in any way support this proposal, and that is for the reasons that have been put forward in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323143715	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to Mrs Susanne Zimmer. And then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323143727	Thank you, President. I am often asked what the immigration policy of the Danish People's Party is and, of course, I readily answer that question. The main reason why I joined the Danish People's Party 25 years ago was precisely the disastrous immigration. But I have increasingly begun to reply in recent years: I do not think we need an immigration policy at all; what we need in Denmark is an immigration policy. For it is quite obvious that most people in the Folketing, or at least the Social Democrats and the bourgeois parties, have realised that the influx is crucial for integration, for cohesion and so on. The time when Mrs Birte Weiss and others said that there was no limit to how many could so come from the Muslim countries in relation to the cultural burden and hence also the derived financial and criminal burden, which would result in the end is fortunately. Where it is now pinching, like several of the rapporteurs, there are, among other things, some of them. Mr. Marcus Knuth, has mentioned, in making up for the sins of the past, to get those who should never have been inside. When you hear, among other things... Radical Left and others on the extreme left talking about human rights and international commitments, one gets the impression that it is something chiseled in stone that it is something that is unchangeable. And I would like to remind you that Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen from this platform said repeatedly throughout the 1990s that the immigration policy had now been tightened to the utmost in terms of what could be done within the international conventions. A great deal has happened since Poul Nyrup Rasmussen was Prime Minister and thank you for that. that much more has been tightened than what was said at the time was possible. And that shows, of course, that if there is a political will or rather: if the voters put together a parliament containing the political will, then you can do things that you may not think are possible. This is precisely the story of the Danish People's Party that was founded in 1995 and was then so badly treated that even here, too, from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament, Mr. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen's side compared us to dogs who couldn't really figure out how to get out when they were supposed to... and today you have to listen to a concerted choir from the left that we should have been the ones who have waved the tact of foreign policy since 1995. I think I will allow myself to say that if this were the case, we would not have had the challenges of the international conventions that we have today. Allow me to say that it is the merit of Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard and the Danish People's Party that the Social Democrats and the other bourgeois parties have today realised how disastrous mistakes they have made in the run-up to and after 1983. But we have not yet come to where we have the courage to say what it takes to solve the problems. That is precisely why an immigration law is needed. This is precisely why the Danish People's Party is needed. For we need a fundamental break with the international conventions that put people, country, history, cohesion and culture aside, because they only pay tribute to the right and privilege of each foreigner to stay in Denmark, to nurture, to enjoy the society, the country, the nation that the Danes have created for a thousand years. This does not mean that we are in any way opposed to individual rights. I do not think that many have fought as strongly as the Danish People's Party for example. freedom of expression. We are very much in favour of freedom of assembly, the rule of law and so on. and, as such, is the reason for all our criticism of the increasingly undemocratic European Union. So it is not about not having rights as an individual, but it is about the ideology that puts the individual, including the alien, above the right of the Danes to form their own society. It is about the ideology that, funny enough, coincides completely with that which the Left and the most extreme party in the Folketing, namely the Radical Left, are to be fought against, for it is precisely in opposition to everything that holds a country together. It is to dare to say: Our language, the fact that we speak Danish in Denmark, it comes first; to dare to say: We Danes, our people, it comes first; to dare to say: Our laws, our rules, it comes first; to put the Danes first very briefly. The brief principle may be said to be the main consideration of the international conventions, which today have become the new golden calf on the left. We want a fight with that. And I have not seen any arguments today that are near to convincing. You can always find a well-integrated foreigner who helps some football-hungry kids, and who has not become so good at Danish well-being, Minister, but is that the example that trumps the rapist or the terrorist or the one who for a long time with his whole family has been financially in charge of society? Of course not. The argument that this is a violation of international conventions is neither theoretical nor practically relevant, since we have seen how the conventions are being challenged all the time, and practically because we put the Danes first. And the whole question that the law here should have no legal effect and therefore is almost just such a paper tiger falls back on the Minister himself, all the time that it is built entirely according to the way one has chosen to make the Climate Act. So the debate we have had today is really the one where we get the sheep separated from the goats. This is where we see whether you are really willing to clean up the sins of the past. I heard the goodwill of Mr. Marcus Knuth and from the Conservative People's Party, however, with certain usual reservations. I also heard the goodwill of the Left, however, with even more trivial reservations. And then I heard the support of Mrs Pernille Vermund and thank you for that. This will be the defining political and decisive struggle for a Denmark, which you can really call Danish in 10 and 20 years' time, where the Danish language still has the natural supremacy over other languages; where Danish culture and form of association have been preserved; so that you can shake hands without having to be afraid that somebody has strange Islamist idiosyncrasies; the fact that you can have a trust across the ligus hedge or the rise, or whatever it may be, i.e. Everything that we in my generation and the generations before me have considered to be absolutely obvious. It is this debate that is going to define whether it will also be Denmark that we have in 10 and 20 years' time, or whether Denmark, like other Western European countries, will be a randomly defined geographical unit, where some people who speak different languages live, belong to all the religions of the world and, moreover, have nothing to hold them together, apart from some welfare society which has then been transformed into the new golden calf together with human rights. That's the defining thing. And that is why, no matter how much you want to make of polished arguments, we will maintain that Denmark may need tightening in immigration policy, but that what we need first and foremost is an immigration law. And that is why I look forward to both the second and third readings of this bill. And I can guarantee to those parties that will be remembered here in the echo of history for their gigantic failures that this is not the last time we will be debating this. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323144630	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323144633	Thank you again to the Danish People's Party. After all, we think that the idea of an immigration law is really good, a bit like the paradigm shift or our repatriation arrangements etc. Was. However, as I mentioned in my speech, unfortunately the reality is that because of the very lenient rules of the 80s and 90s and so on. many of the people who have come here have been permanently or even citizenship. So now, allow me to ask hypothetically: if we get a blue government after the elections, which reminds us a little of Norway's, where there are a wide range of parties, for example, it could. be a government in which the Danish People's Party enters into and where Mr. Morten Messerschmidt himself stands to implement this law as a minister and then runs into the fact that the 70-percent objective cannot be achieved, because so many of those who came here in the 80s, because of the lenient rules, have permanent residence or Danish citizenship. And that is precisely the 70% that is, let us say, the problem for many of the parties, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt mentions. What do you want, sir? Morten Messerschmidt do then?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323144736	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323144737	Thank you. Yes, we can remove the permanent basis of residence. What is the big and difficult are those who have acquired Danish citizenship. That's also why you have to be so careful about assigning it. But already today there is already the criminal code and the law of citizenship. I believe that it is Article 8A or B... the right to withdraw citizenship from criminal acts. So, if you are convicted of terrorism, for example, you can be deprived of your citizenship. There is nothing in the Basic Law to prevent us from extending the number of provisions leading to the loss of the right of birth. It could be that it should be extended to include manslaughter, qualified violence and other provisions of the penal code. This will certainly be a way we want to go, and I really hope that we can have the support of the Conservatives for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323144828	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323144829	Thank you for your answer. I would just like to say, as I said before, that the proposals that we are making in relation to tightening up, among other things. Is that you can't get a permanent stay if you've committed crime. It must be conditional on not committing crime and not being long-term unemployed. That is very much in line with the six points here. So it's really just to say that we have the same desire as the Danish People's Party forward-looking, but we're just a little too sorry about that fixed 70-percent objective, because we won't be in favour of anything that we can't guarantee that we can actually achieve. So thank you. That was more of a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323144901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323144902	Nevertheless, allow me to repeat, because it is precisely at the heart of the Conservatives' desire to tighten up the rules in the future, as I understand it, where we would also like to tighten up backwards in order to resolve the sins of the past. It is a difference between us; we are different parties. That's gotta be it. But what I think is interesting in this... it's always interesting to hear sir. Marcus Knuth, but here maybe it's operationally interesting that if it's just about the number, we can talk about 65 or 60%. I shall look forward to that in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323144936	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323144938	Thank you. As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, we support the proposal. We do not quite understand that it has been said that it is 70%. of those who live up to these criteria after 10 years in Denmark, and don't say 100 percent, but leave it alone. What is relevant is to find out how large this number is today, because when you talk about emigration and how it can change Denmark, you have to see it from a perspective: How many are immigrants with Danish citizenship? After all, you are not included in the proposal here. How many foreigners in Denmark, in other words foreign nationals, have come here on the criteria set out here? This means that it is either refugees or family-run refugees who have arrived in 2012 because they have been here for 10 years, so those who have come from 2012 until today are not currently covered by the bill, but they will be, as time passes. But until 2012: How many have come to this country as refugees or family members for refugees and are still foreign citizens? It is like the gross group; in addition, you have to go down and look at how they behave when they are here. But does the rapporteur have a picture of how many people are involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145050	No, but we can get that to the committee. When we have chosen to say that it is 70%, it is because it has become a magic number in other contexts here at Christiansborg. Therefore, we had a naive expectation that there were some parties that could see themselves in it. We would have liked to have gone further, because I fully share Mrs Pernille Vermund's wish that none of these people should be in Denmark as a starting point. After all, it is no secret that it is primarily about immigration from Muslim countries. It was just to avoid the worst quabble from polished parties that we thought that now we write it in another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145128	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145130	When it is relevant to talk about the number, it is also because the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party have chosen to table a legislative proposal which says that it is people who have been here for more than ten years. So, within the last 10 years of stay in Denmark, it has to be so and so. So the 70% thing. is one part of it, and I understand the comparison with the Climate Act, but the proposers have also chosen to say that it is within 10 years, and that means that you can have lived on passive support for many years in Denmark before you are expelled. What is the reason for this? Why not say: Listen here, if you are here in Denmark, you must support yourself, and if you can't, you can go out?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145209	It's because I'm very concerned about getting my policy through. I'm not concerned with just having my politics for myself. After all, this is an attempt to say that if we are to gather 90 mandates behind an immigration law, we have to recognise that if it is the Conservative People's Party, as we heard before, the Left, which we heard earlier, and we have not even heard from the Liberal Alliance yet, we have to make a bourgeois majority after an election, we have to compromise. I know very well what I would like and what the Danish People's Party would like, but this is an attempt to say that we have to bow to each other if we are to gather 90 seats, otherwise it will just be a piece of chatter where you can stand with clean hands and absolutely no influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145246	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145249	Thank you. I'm thinking that sir... Morten Messerschmidt knows very well how much it hurts me and Enhedslisten that the Danish People's Party has had such an influence on Danish foreign policy. I'm actually just gonna be praying to Mr. Simpson because of the echoes of history. Morten Messerschmidt confirmed that it was the Danish People's Party which was the support party and parliamentary basis for the government all the way up the 00s. This means that the Danish People's Party and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has had a significant influence on the integration policy we have in Denmark. And I believe that and the Enhedslisten are an important reason why we have some integration problems today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145335	I can fully confirm that, and I can confirm that during the same period there were approximately 2 000 people. 150 members of the Folketing who did not want to take the necessary stand with the international conventions. And had the Danish People's Party got it through, it would probably have done even more evil on the Enhedslisten, but it had done even more good for the Danish population.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145351	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145353	There is no doubt that it would have hurt on Enhedslisten if Denmark no longer joined the international conventions. Fortunately, Denmark will continue to do so. The other thing I'd like to ask, sir. Morten Messerschmidt about is what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt believes that it does with integration that when you come to this country, you are told that we have something called an immigration law. Thinks sir. Morten Messerschmidt, that it promotes integration and that it makes integration better, or that it will actually make integration worse, and that people who come here on the run will feel even more excluded from Danish society?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145431	I feel quite convinced that those people will see that okay, if you do not integrate, if you cannot Danish, if you are not in employment 7 out of 10 years, and if you follow these criteria in § 1, you will get out of the country. I think that will have a very motivating effect. But we can try it, Mrs. Rosa Lund. She can just vote yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145450	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Morten Messerschmidt. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145505	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145535	Thank you for the floor to the President and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution we are debating today. The proposal requires the government to submit a legislative proposal ensuring that all refugees are covered by the same criteria for the withdrawal or refusal of the extension of their residence permit. This will mean fundamental, stable and lasting changes, as the legislation says. Involvement rules and the special temporary protection status in Section 7 of the Aliens Act. Thirdly, we have had the opportunity to debate several times, and I shall therefore be very brief. For refugees with a residence permit under Section 7 of the Aliens Act. 2 or 2 3, which is not covered by the UN Convention on Refugees, an assessment must be made of whether, at the time of inclusion or the time of extension, the person concerned continues to have a need for protection, or whether, as a result of Denmark's other international obligations, the person should be allowed to stay in Denmark. The improvement of the general situation in the home Member State means, where appropriate, that a decision on involvement can be taken. This is true regardless of the fact that the situation remains serious, fragile and unpredictable as long as the improvements are not of a temporary nature. This is, moreover, in line with the practice of the Court of Human Rights. Moreover, it is also a fundamental principle of the asylum system that protection will cease when there is no longer a need for protection unless the foreigners concerned have obtained a link with Denmark or have obtained a job in Denmark which allows them to stay on one of our professional schemes. It is essential for the government that we stick to that principle of temporaryity and we cannot therefore support the resolution. I don't think that's surprising either. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145738	Thank you for that and there are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145742	We also believe that protection should be given to those who have a need for protection and that when people no longer have a need for protection, they should return as a starting point unless they have achieved a very strong connection with Danish society; we agree with the government on that. But the question is, after all, who has a need for protection, and it seems to me that it is quite violent when these fundamental, stable and lasting changes are not to have taken place, so that people can be sent back, because that means very, very well exemplified by the situation we now have in Syria, that people are being sent back to quite insecure conditions which can be very violent for their lives. Can the government not see that it makes sense to look at a change in what is defined as a protection need, rather than always simply referring to the fact that only those with protection needs need help?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145846-2	I think that is actually a relevant discussion, and that is where I try to point out in my speech that there are, in part, the UN refugees, that is to say those covered by the UN Convention on Refugees, and they have a very strong status; there is a great deal to be done to ensure that they do not extend their residence permit. There must have been these stable, lasting and fundamental changes. And then there are those who receive protection under the European Convention on Human Rights and who would not be able to obtain UN status because, under the UN Convention, they are not to be considered as covered by the Convention on Refugees but as covered, instead, by the European Convention on Human Rights requirements for protection, and, for them, there is not the very strong demand for fundamental, stable and lasting changes, but the possibility of refusing to extend the residence permit, unless there are some changes that are quite temporary in nature, and this is ultimately a practice brought about by the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145955	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323145956	I have spoken to quite a few of the people who stand to be sent back to Syria or maybe just sit at an exit centre with a meaningless existence because they are too afraid to go back. Many of these people are terrified, and they do so for a good reason. I hear the Minister is a little hard to move on to this. This does not surprise me very much, but at least I would like to hear the Minister: how does it feel that Denmark is going so far alone on this issue and that so many of the Minister's European colleagues say that this is something we simply cannot afford?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150036	For me, it is important that we have very high legal guarantees in our asylum system, and we do. Denmark always knocks out no. 1 on the international Rule of Law Index, because our judges, the bar and the entire case law in Denmark have quite high standards. Then it is also crucial, I think, both when it comes to UN refugees and when it comes to those covered by the European Convention on Human Rights, that we move up to the levels established by international courts. It's so true that we didn't put anything upstairs. We follow them quite zealously, it must be said.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150116	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150118	Thank you. In the Greens we think that it is people who stand here and are frightened by the idea of having to be sent home and perhaps end up in a basement again, from which they actually fled. But what does the Minister say that a great many of the refugees who are denied extension seek asylum in other countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150142	Therefore, if they have already applied for asylum in Denmark and may have obtained it and take from Denmark to the Netherlands and apply for asylum, they will give a fingerprint when they apply in the Netherlands, and there the Dutch can look up a register and see that they are already registered in Denmark, and then they will be transferred through such a special mechanism that is in the European Union. And there is no problem with that, as far as I am aware.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150207	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150208	I now think that the problems lie entirely on the side of the refugees. It is not the countries that have problems here. So when they don't want to go home because they fear for their lives, and then they go elsewhere where they know it's hard to get in, doesn't the minister say anything about how serious it is for these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150230	However, it is not a new phenomenon that people who have sought asylum in one EU country want to go to another to try their luck there. It's been like this for decades. I also think we just have to stick to the fact that we have an asylum system where we seek and, like when you seek everything else in this society, you can get a yes or no. The people who get no are, of course, in a really annoying situation because they have a desire to have protection they have applied for protection, so it has to be because they think they need protection. Last year there were 600 people, I think, who were denied asylum in Denmark, and each of them believes that they need protection. But we cannot have a system where it is up to them, because then we might as well not have an application process. Then we might as well just say yes to everyone who's looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150312	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150314	Thank you. Perhaps that is true when the Minister says that we could have figured out that the government would not support this proposal. Nevertheless, the Minister has recently adopted a new approach to the issue of refugees and foreigners. I would like to quote from the minister here: "Part of being well is that you don't run around an asylum centre and spin around yourself and don't know what to do on your own. ▪ And: • Having something sensible and meaningful to do, such as having a job and earning money. I fully agree with the Minister. The only problem is that the situation we have right now with this section 7 paragraph. 3, means that there are a lot of people who are currently sitting at the exit centre and doing exactly what the minister says is not a good life. And that is why I think it is quite reasonable that today, because of the new tones of the government, we are putting forward this resolution. Then try to explain, sir. Minister, why it is a good idea for people from Syria and Afghanistan to spin around themselves and have nothing meaningful to do, but it is not a good idea for people from Ukraine to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150419	But I think that there is a difference between whether you are at an exit centre because then you have been refused asylum and have to leave or whether you have just come to Denmark and apply for asylum. These are two very different situations. At any rate, I would warn against people who have been denied asylum continuing to work and to be in Denmark, because why should you go home if you can continue to earn the money in Denmark? There I think we must insist that the welfare state is closed and the next station is Kastrup airport, if asylum has been refused. That's why you're staying at an exit center.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150454	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150456	The minister can take it easy. Mrs. Rosa Lund knows the rules. Well, the reason these people are at an exit center is because we have Section 7. 3 that we have made an alien law which means that people are being sent back to countries where there is still war, where they are still being persecuted and from which they are still on the run. That's why they're not leaving this exit center. I understand that they do not; they will not go back to a place where they are killed. And that's exactly why it's relevant to talk about §7 paragraph. 3, today, including in the refugee situation we are facing today. I just think it would suit the Minister to recognise that the rules are wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150536	But nobody gets sent back to get killed. That is the whole purpose of asylum policy, that is, not to be sent back to be killed or subjected to torture or degrading treatment. So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh..................... Article 7 (2) and Article 7 (2) 3, extends the definition of protection, compared to if Then it is true that, in relation to section 7, paragraph 7. Article 7 (2) and Article 7 (2) 3, doesn't have to do that much before it gets involved or you refuse to prolong it. But it is all based on the basic condition that people are never sent to persecution or torture or that they will be shot.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150615	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150618	Thank you. After all, it was my party and the minister's party that together made this law in 2015, and in the Radical Left we have a long way along the way regretted it, because we did not imagine in our wildest imagination that it would be applied in the way it is doing today. Fortunately, there are a very small number of Syrians who are here according to section 7 paragraph 7. Article 7 (3) and Article 7 (3) 2, which could therefore be deprived of their residence permit. I can hear that we have probably not really moved the Minister today, but that is why I would really like to try digging into some of the things we might be able to talk about. This is the way in which these removals of residence permits are administered. In the Foreign Affairs Council, it seems that they have no intention whatsoever of deciding whether the Syrian refugees are here on the basis of the correct paragraph. They are actually simply passing the decision directly on to the Refugee Board, which then amounts to 43 per cent. The Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 93 (2) of the EC Treaty. It's a totally wild change rate. This means that from the moment you are deprived of your residence permit until you know whether you have been bought or sold, it takes 8-9 months for you not to sleep calmly at night. It is not a humane treatment of 43 per cent. of this group. So what is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150735	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150735-2	However, it must be said in the Radical Left's defence that when section 7 was made. 3, back in 2014, it was a temporary provision, and when it had to be made permanent, the Radical Left actually voted against. When the Foreigners' Agency deals with these paragraphs, they look into what the legislators' intention was, and it says that the residence permit must be withdrawn or denied prolonged unless it would be contrary to international conventions. So the Foreigners' Agency's job is to go as far as they think it can within the framework of international conventions. There they go down to the practice that has been practiced in international courts. It is clear that when the Refugee Board looks at the appeals in the process and decides to reverse some of the decisions and to say that a residence permit is still to be issued, the Foreigners' Board must also be in line with the practice of the Refugee Board, which is the supreme authority. But because this is relatively new, after all, we are now at a time when we need to find out what the practice of the nickname really is. It is true that we have seen part of the changes, and this will then also have an impact on the future proceedings of the Foreigners' Authority.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150843	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150845	Yes, I know it all well, what should we say, the method that the Minister is explaining here, and thank you for that, and it is very communicative and all sorts of things, but what exactly is the Minister's position on this rate of change? It's violent in my eyes. Is it also violent in the Minister's eyes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150902	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150903	It would be if it were in two or three years' time, because the Board would have liked to find out where the Refugee Board has cut its cut. However, I think it is natural to see a relatively high rate of change at the start of the management of new legislation. But it is clear that it has to be adapted just as quietly, so that the Foreign Affairs Council lays down where the Refugee Board generally lies. That is also what I am told: that is the process being carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150930	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323150933	Thank you very much. In the European Parliament, the Minister was asked recently in connection with the discussion that Denmark is sending Syrians back to Damascus: How can you sleep tonight? I would like to rephrase the question a little. Is the Minister not sometimes in doubt whether it is right to send Syrians back to Damascus, according to Amnesty International, where, according to Amnesty International, they are at risk of rape, they are at risk of torture, they are at risk of being murdered? Is the Minister never in doubt as to whether it is right to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151007	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151008	I have also met with Amnesty International and another organisation called Human Rights Watch, which has produced some reports from Syria, which, moreover, are part of both the Foreign Affairs Agency and the Refugee Board's assessment of whether or not to withdraw a residence permit. What I just think it is important to stick to is that it is, after all, individual case handling. What may be right for many Syrians, namely that they risk persecution or torture if they return, is not necessarily the right thing for others. You can't just point to a country and say it's dangerous to go back to that country. At any rate, there must be very extensive acts of war if merely living in the country would be the basis for the need for protection. It's almost nowhere in the world. It is in most Syrian provinces, and in the past there were some areas in Somalia, but my best guess is that not even living in Ukraine, as we see it today, will be the basis for protection. So about Amnesty International and the other organisations, I would say that yes, for many people it is dangerous to go to the specific countries, but out of that one cannot just deduce that it is then for everyone per year. definition. After all, there are hundreds of people who go back to Syria from Denmark years ago over 100 every year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151122	Thank you. Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151123	I have not been able to find a single European country that sends Syrians back to Damascus. I don't know if there's gonna be one. But does it not impress the Minister that we are the only ones doing so under the conditions in which Amnesty says they risk torture, they risk rape, they risk being murdered? No one else does, as far as I can tell at least. Is the Minister never a tiny bit in doubt as to whether not all of them, but some of them come back to a deadly situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151156	Well, some of them don't have to go back to a deadly situation. That's what the whole casework is about. And I trust that the people appointed to the Refugee Board, who are judges, lawyers and a person from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are able to manage our legislation. And we have historically a rather high standard of how our asylum procedure works. But it's true, it's not easy. The day before yesterday I stood at an asylum center in Jutland, where an Iranian stood before me and said: I dare not go back. How can you tell me to go back? The Refugee Board told me to go back. My message to him is, you have to go back. That is what the Refugee Board has said. It is not easy to stand one metre from a man who has that message, but that is what the legal system here says, and we have to stand by that, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151245	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, so we start with the rapporteur's series and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democrat Party. Here you go, sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151302	Thank you. With this resolution, the Radical Left, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Free Greens and the Alternative propose a fundamental relaxation of our asylum legislation. Specifically, it is proposed that persons who have resided under Clauses 7, 2, or 7, 3 of the Aliens Act should be covered by the same criterion for the withdrawal or refusal of an extension of residence, which is therefore applicable to Convention refugees residing under Clause 7, 1. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that people who need protection should, of course, have it. At the same time, we believe that it is the authorities that have the necessary conditions to assess who is in need and who is not in need. However, we also believe that people who have received protection in Denmark but no longer have a need for protection should return home. We have an asylum system to protect people, not to increase immigration. The authors of the motion for a resolution will make it almost impossible for the authorities to withdraw or refuse to extend the residence permit of former refugees even if the general conditions in their countries of origin improve. We do not want to contribute to this because it will increase the problems of integration. Our welfare model is not linked if we are to protect people with a need for protection, but also houses and provide for people without a need for protection, and, unfortunately, integration in a number of areas is not going very well. For example, if you look at the employment rate for Syrian women, it is 20%, while women of Danish origin have an employment rate of 80%. There are, of course, plenty of sunshine stories, and if, for example, you are a well-integrated acid without a need for protection, you can go to a business scheme. We are pleased with our current asylum legislation, which works as intended and which a broad majority in the Folketing including the Radical Left helped to adopt in 2015. The legislation is in line with a fundamental principle of our asylum system, namely that we provide temporary protection and that we have to return to our country of origin when we no longer have a need for protection. In addition, it is important for us to emphasise that our asylum legislation naturally respects both the Constitution and our international obligations. Social democracy does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151503	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151508	Thank you. The rapporteur says in his speech that it is the authorities who are doing this. I fully agree with that, and what we are proposing in the parties behind this motion for a resolution is not, of course, that we should sit and deal with this matter in the Folketing. What we are proposing is that the legal complex on which the procedure must be based should be changed so that it becomes more secure and that we protect those people who have a need for protection. After all, our asylum legislation does not do that today. For as it is today with § 7, 3, you send people back to some very, very insecure conditions. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that we are not, in fact, challenging the work of the authorities, but rather the work of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151602-2	We are already protecting people with a need for protection, so I do not understand the criticism here, and this is a well-known disagreement between Mrs Lund and the Social Democratic Party. But if you have a need for protection and that is assessed individually, you will get protection in Denmark. There we are, of course, a very decent country fulfilling our international obligations, and so must we, because of course we should not show anyone who would be in danger if they returned home. Fortunately, however, many Syrians have had the opportunity to return home. In Denmark, there have been some 100 Syrians a year in the last few years who have chosen to go home to Syria on their own initiative. They have gone down to their municipal office, knocked on the door and said that they would like to take advantage of the repatriation scheme, and then they have gone home. And to the surrounding areas there are some 130,000 Syrians who have returned in recent years according to the United Nations. That is why this picture, which some are trying to draw from the fact that for anyone who is in Syria it is associated with the danger of life, is simply not true. That is why I think that our asylum system is, as it should be, on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151708	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151708-2	I also know the figures very well, and I think it is good both for Syria and for the Syrians who have decided to go back. It must be an expression that they are not in danger, that they are not persecuted. But how does Mr. Rasmus Stoklund then explain that there are plenty of Syrians in Denmark at exit centres who cannot go back, who will not go back because they are afraid to be killed? At the same time, however, we have not given them protection. We've given them some temporary residence permit. We have then taken that away from them again, and now they are in a situation where they cannot do either on or off. This shows that we are not giving protection to those who need it, Mr. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151748	Sir. Rasmus Stoklund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151750	No, because it is not the case in Denmark that if you have a case that has to be decided by some authorities, then you can decide for yourself, and it is not the case if you are a national of another country and have been protected here while you have needed it, and you are in a situation where you no longer need it. Then it is not the case that you can decide for yourself that you still need it, and that is why you should, of course, go to your home country if you live in an exit centre. Because then it is because you do not have a legal residence in Denmark and, of course, you have to respect the decision of a judge on the Refugee Board and then return home.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151825	Then it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151827	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. It is, of course, a speech in which I think the rapporteur overdramaticises the meaning of § 7 paragraph. 3 and the protection provided for in Article 7 (3) 3, or what to say; that one somehow fails to do so, and that § 7 para. 3, allows us to repatriate a lot that cannot be integrated. So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh..................... 3 is, after all, a paragraph on which a very small proportion of Syrian refugees arrived, and a very large proportion of those who are deprived of their residence permit end up having it converted or moved on to another provision. But that does not mean that integration for them is going any worse. My question to the rapporteur is actually in relation to the premise that Danish integration is promoted by Paragraph 7 (1). 3. So, the rapporteur really believes that Article 7 (7). 3, is a gift for integration in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323151925	No, I do not think it is a gift for integration, because my point about integration is rather that we should not make integration problems any bigger by saying that people who do not have a need for protection should still stay in Denmark. And that is what the proposers here want: it is that people who no longer have a need for protection and who have the opportunity to return to their country of origin must stay in Denmark anyway. And that's what I don't really see the big scam in when we know that many are the ones who have come or have a basis on this paragraph, unfortunately, filling too much in the wrong statistics when it, for example, is. such things as employment apply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152012	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152013	Very well. In other words, the rapporteur attaches importance to integration. But then let us just stay there for a moment without it becoming anecdotal, but if we just look at the statistics. Will the rapporteur not recognise that for a long period over the last many years integration has improved? I totally admit that things had to go even better. However, would the rapporteur not acknowledge that both the crime statistics for non-Western immigrants and their descendants are progressing, and that it is also progressing in the field of employment, including for Syrians?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152044	Well, you see, for example. In the case of women from Syria, Somalia, Iraq and Lebanon, seven out of ten are on public support. I shall not be able to say whether that figure was eight out of ten a few years ago, since the rapporteur believes that much progress has been made, but regardless of what I still believe, seven out of ten on public support are far too many. Depending on how you view it in relation to crime, you can also find different numbers. It is easy to find examples of people who are descendants of people with traditional refugee nationalities where crime has increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152118	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152120	Thank you. Does the rapporteur not find it problematic that there are a great many reports showing that it is uncertain to be in Damascus for the people who are being sent back? Does it not make any impression at all with all the stories you hear and see in the press that people are terrified of having to be sent back and when there are reports that show that it is uncertain?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152149	I am almost going to reply with a counter-question, because I might also be interested to know whether it makes no impression that there are also plenty of reports showing the opposite. It is very difficult to say anything in general about this, because where it can be dangerous for one to go back to Syria, it does not have to be dangerous for the other to go back to Syria. It is not the case that for all the millions of people who live in Syria today, every day they wake up in a torture cellar and that it is a dangerous day they wake up to. That's why it gets too unmanageable. One has to look at whether people are in danger individually or whether they are not in danger individually. That's why it's good that we have §7 paragraph. 1, so that, if you are personally persecuted, you get protection here. Then it is also good that we have legislation that can protect people if there are any acts of war where they live. However, when they cease and have ceased for several years, there is also a basis for returning home.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152250	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152253	In fact, in the Greens we would like to follow the precautionary principle, so if people are so terrified of going back home, I think that this should be taken into account. However, with regard to the fact that there are a great many of us who are now being sent home, who are in education and who have a job and so on, does the rapporteur really prefer that they are being sent home rather than being integrated?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152325	We have a precautionary principle, and the former chairman of the Refugee Board, Judge Henrik Bloch Andersen, has on several occasions explained that we are working on a precautionary principle. If there is the slightest chance that some people will be sent home for torture, for example, they will of course not be sent home. That is why we already have a precautionary principle, and that is why it is not something that the Greens need to propose. We already have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152355	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152357	The rapporteur has just said that we should not expel anyone who is in danger when they return home. That is literally quoted from what the rapporteur said just now. Can the rapporteur thus guarantee that none of these Syrians are in danger?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152416	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152417	This is how our legislation is made. What is the basis is that we must respect our international obligations and we must not be in danger if we are expelled from Denmark. But I think sir... Torsten Gejl is aware that I am not a member of the Refugee Board, so I am not the one who is taking decisions. I am not the one who has any basis for it, and neither should it be. It is judges, lawyers and appointed from the Ministry who sit and decide whether one or the other can return home, and they do so on an informed and objective basis and on a far more objective basis than the public debate often leaves the impression. I would like many of those who follow the public debate to have had the same opportunities as the rest of us for having taken part in some of the reviews where the authorities have told about how to work with country experts and dozens of reports, rather than getting the one-sided image that is sometimes drawn, such as. at the time when there were some stories on TV 2 that it was almost a single report that was the reason for sending people home.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152519	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152521	No, it is true that the rapporteur does not sit and administer individual repatriations. The rapporteur is a legislator, and when the rapporteur says that no one should be sent home if they are in danger, then the rapporteur, as the legislator, must ensure that no one happens. There are, as far as I can tell, no other countries that send Syrians back to Damascus. Amnesty International says that they are at risk of being raped, that they are at risk of being murdered, that they are at risk of being tortured. Why is it that the rapporteur as a legislator, since the rapporteur does not believe that this should be done, will not help to ensure that this does not happen from a legislative point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152600	But that is precisely what we are ensuring in the legislation. We have just written into the legislation that if you are at risk of having your human rights broken, you should of course not be sent home. So that's why we've secured it in the legislation, and that's why Mr. Torsten Gejl be happy and support the current asylum legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152614	There are no more brief remarks to the Social Democrat rapporteur, so thank you to Mr Seligman. Rasmus Stoklund. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Here you go, sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152626	Thank you for the floor. The proposers propose changing the conditions under which refugees can be returned to their country of origin. With the resolution, the changes in a refugee's country of origin must in future be fundamental, stable and lasting before a refugee can return. It will be a complete change in Danish asylum policy. We cannot support that in the Left. I also have very little sympathy for the fact that we are striving for a wording in our legislation which will lead to the overall helping of much fewer people. I simply do not understand that way of thinking. In my party's optics, it must be the case that as much help as possible must be given to the means that are now being used to help people who seek shelter. That is why I think it is important to focus on the fact that there is not unlimited funding for this area. When we bring people up here, it is very costly for Danish society, and every time we spend money here, there are some who have it much harder, especially in camps in nearby areas, for which there will be less funding. When we grant asylum, it shows that we are giving temporary residence to some. It's not a permanent condition. That is why it is crucial that we also have the opportunity to send people back home not only because it allows us to help others who are on the run, who also need protection, but also because it is essential that people return to their homeland. They can come back with additional tools that they have acquired in Denmark so that they can have a more active life where they come from. If we change the definition in the Aliens Act to make it fundamental, stable and lasting changes in the future, we will find it very difficult to send any refugee back to the country of origin. There will be even more here and therefore much less that we can help. We already spend more than 30 billion. kr. A year on this group, and if we spend more money on a failed policy, which this very little thought-out proposal suggests, it will just mean that we help fewer people overall. How can it ever be a humane refugee policy to support what this proposal expresses? That is why I can tell you that, of course, the Left will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152903	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First of all, it's Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323152908	Thank you. Once again, I think that the rapporteur from the Left is exaggerating the importance of Article 7 (7). 3, for how many people are able to send home at all. Those who are deprived of their residence permit will, of course, end up in large-scale home travel centres unless they themselves apply out of the country. If you look at the figures, we have much more success in sending people home on the repatriation scheme than we actually have with § 7 paragraph. 3. 3, after all, was a clause that applied until 2015, when governments led by the Left and the Support Parties along the way also managed to make legislation that also made it difficult for people to stay in Denmark and actually gave rise to and opportunity to send people home. So in a sense it also sounded as if § 7 para. 3, just was the great Savior back in 2015, where there are a lot of other arrangements that actually do a much better job. So why is it that we are not just correcting, adjusting the law to suit other EU countries and not going alone in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153013	I think I have just described why we should not do so. Ly for civil war and other things is something you have temporary, and the more we help in Denmark, the more we sit at a Danish asylum centre or an exit centre after you have lost your asylum status here in Denmark, the fewer we can help elsewhere. So the problem with section 7, paragraph 7. 3 is not that it exists, the problem with § 7 para. 3 is that we find it difficult to comply with it and make it work to such an extent that we can help even more people than by having them located at centres in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153102	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153104	Thank you. I would like to go a little further, because I am a little surprised that the Left is so dismissive here. Last week, after all, we adopted a special law which allows people from Ukraine to be protected in Denmark and, fortunately, with unqualified support from the Left, I would say. But I also have to ask why it is that there should be so much difference between fleeing Putin's bombs, depending on whether the bombs fall in Syria or Ukraine, and why it is that a fugitive is not a fugitive, no matter where you have escaped from.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153134-2	All refugees are refugees, and basically there is no difference between fleeing Assad or fleeing Putin, but there is the difference that we believe that help should be provided in the neighbourhood, because most help is provided there. You can help ten times more than getting them to Denmark and getting them on passive support. We simply run very quickly out of money and people we can help with that attitude. But now it's with us, the balloon's gone up. It is our immediate area in which the conflict has broken out, and we must stand by it. We have no idea that this should be done in the MENAP countries. It must be in Europe that Ukrainian refugees now need help.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153213	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153215	The rapporteur chooses to make a speech about the importance of prioritising his efforts, as it were, and helping as many as possible. And I agree with that basic point of view. In other words, if you just have a little utilitarian in you, you think we should make sure that we use our resources in a way that helps as many people as possible. But sir... Mads Birds did not also see that a problem arises when there are people being sent back to a place where the changes that have occurred are not fundamental or have indications of stability? So when people are sent back to Syria, despite the fact that there is still uncertainty, and that there is a risk that we can stand and should receive some of the same people again in a short time, does the rapporteur not see the problem in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153304	Well, I quite agree with Mr. Knox. Carl Valentin if it was the premise. If you have fled Assad because Assad personally or Assad's security system is after you, you should never be sent back. But if you have fled because there have been fighting in the area from which you come and there are no more fighting, then you can return, because there are some others we should help instead. I have been visiting all of our exit centres and several of our asylum centres, and I have not met anyone who was happy to have to go back when they got that decision. I think that is a condition that prevails there. But the principle must be the same: we need a precautionary principle, and then we must help those who have been persecuted personally and help those who are fleeing from war for a period of time, but, of course, they must also return when the acts of war end.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153402	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153403	I think sir... Mads Birdede and I have some disagreements here, but also a different analysis of the situation in Syria. Because I think it is actually likely that we can find ourselves in a situation where people who have been sent back by Denmark may end up fleeing again. We can also have a situation where people end up sitting in an exit centre and then Syria is later declared insecure to be in, and then they come back and have to get back into society. It is just to say that the legislation that we have right now I consider to be creating some pretty big problems, and I wish the Left would acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153439	I fully acknowledge that when dealing with such an insecure actor as Assad, it is very difficult to predict the future. It is not the same as predicting whether there will be acts of war in Denmark. It's always gonna be pretty unthinkable. It doesn't look like that in a country with a man like Assad at the helm. I fully agree with that. However, we need to look at the reports that are under way and the period in which the country committee is dealing with and then make the assessment on that basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153507	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153509	Thank you. In the Free Greens, we are very pleased that we accept the Ukrainians with open arms. But now I want to hear from the rapporteur: if there are Ukrainians coming from cities that are not bombed and where there is no violence or power being exercised, does the rapporteur think that they should be returned?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153532	I have noticed that all the Ukrainians I have met so far say that they would very much like to return home as soon as possible. And I believe that the effort we must make is to make sure that when peace, hopefully soon, breaks out, helps the Ukrainians who want to return to rebuild their country, and I think we will have to adopt some kind of Marshall aid to Ukraine to help with that task. But there must also be some who have had their homes and their living conditions completely destroyed by Putin's war, and I think we can have them as guests for a longer period of time. But I very much doubt that most of them will not return the moment they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153627	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153628	In fact, I think the rapporteur is right. But the rapporteur himself says most people. What about those who won't return? Does the rapporteur think that they should be forced back, as we are now doing with Syrians, for example??
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153644	Now we've made a special law so it won't be relevant. They are considered EU citizens and they want to stay for a period of time, and that stay can then be extended. But basically, I see it as natural that if your country calls for you and needs to be rebuilt, then of course you must return and help rebuild it. However, I would very much like to support them in that process.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153705	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Rosa Lund for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153714	Well, actually, sir. Mads Fuglede, we have just postponed the debate on the Ukrainians because we have now adopted a special law which gives them residence for two years. And I think that in two years' time we will have to find ourselves in a situation where we either have to extend the law or have exactly the discussion we have today about § 7 paragraph 7. 3. So in this way it can be said that this motion for a resolution, which Mr. Mads Fuglede seems to be ill-thought out, we have the parties who have made this proposal • actually spent quite a long time thinking about. And in the Enhedslisten we felt the same way when it was adopted in 2015 that we anticipated this situation; we actually warned the government then about this situation. Well, I would like Mads Fuglede to explain once more how it can be more expensive, that is, how we can get more help for the money by maintaining the legislation we have today than by adopting this proposal. Because by adopting this proposal we are actually saving quite a lot of money, sir. Mads Birded, that people shouldn't sit in exit centers. It's really expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153819	The employment rate among those who have come to Denmark from the MEAPT countries is so low that they are extremely costly for Denmark. So when we're going to help that group, we're going to help them in their vicinity. The more we help here, the fewer we help together. And the longer we help them here and the bigger the group gets, the less money there is to help people in need. And at some point the share of funds we can set aside to help them in their vicinity becomes so small that the very weakest people who do not have the strength to escape will get very little help from Denmark. That is why it is very worrying, I think you are saying that you have thought about this proposal for a long time, because I do not think it is very wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153904	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153905	Well, there I think it's the other way around that the Left and Mr. Mads Fuglede then may not be aware that the neighbourhoods of the countries we are talking about in connection with this motion for a resolution on the border areas of Syria, to Afghanistan, are filled with refugees. They're full, there's no room for any more. There is in Denmark. And that is why one way to help in the neighbourhood is to say: Now we are taking some more refugees to Denmark. So I'm just not buying this neighborhood argument. A fugitive is a fugitive, and that should not be news to Mr. Mads Birded, that's how we feel in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323153942	A refugee is a refugee, and of course you have to help a refugee where you get the most refugee aid for your money, and that is something you get in the neighbourhood. To this point, with the fact that the area can be filled, I would say that there are camps that are badly run and that need a lot more funds and the more funds to help in those camps, if we pursue a firm refugee policy that means that we do not spend the money on asylum seekers sitting on passive support in the Danish system; then we can channel the funds to those camps so that life in those camps is better.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154016	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154018	Thank you. Now I've been listening to Mr. Mads Fuglede and the questioners in relation to the Ukrainian refugees, and I really think that in the debate that the Ukrainian ambassador has raised, where he will not call his countrymen refugees, but internally displaced persons, and where he openly says that he is quite convinced that they will return as soon as possible, this should be something that we rejoiced over. And that will be a leading question to Mr. Mads Birded, because there I think we are very much in agreement. But I am just so sorry to hear that there are so many people in the Folketing who think that Ukrainian refugees should of course stay. I believe that we should listen to the Ukrainian ambassador, who, of course, has a strong connection with how and what the Ukrainians feel, think and think. Is Mr. Mads Bird agreed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154112	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154112-2	I very much agree with that. That is not everything the Ukrainian Ambassador has said I fully agree with, but every day I think I am once again bent in the dust out of respect for what I see the Ukrainian people doing and saying, and the Ukrainian Ambassador's announcement that he wants his people back to Ukraine on the first occasion, was something that I was very touched by when I read.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154143	Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154144	I also think it is very brave of an ambassador to enter into the debate that he has done. And no, that is not all I can agree with at all, but I think we can agree. The Ukrainian ambassador also says that of course Ukrainians must be treated very well while they are in Denmark, and there is great goodwill for this from the Folketing, from the people and from everyone, overwhelmingly. So, for the first time in many, many years, we really feel that here is a situation that we understand and understand, unlike all the other times, and what we have been through over the last 30 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154223-2	We in the Left are very fond of the special law. We now think that everyone should have proper treatment when they come to Denmark, no matter where they come from. It has always made me sad that so few people, especially women in the Middle East, came into the labour market and found the values that have made our society such a just and equal society. I think that even if you had to go back home at some point, it would be a good ballast to bring home with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154255	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154257	Thank you. Why does the rapporteur think that it is virtually impossible to find another European country that is sending Syrians back to Damascus?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154306	I am dealing with what I think is the right asylum policy to pursue, which is that if you have fled for political reasons, you should never return to either the area or the country if you can risk being pursued, but you must return if you have fled, because there have been fightings where you have lived, and they are no longer there and there is no reason to believe that they will return unless something dramatic changes that cannot be predicted. I think that is a sound principle to pursue policy on. And I am very comfortable with the authorities that have to assess and consider each case, and it does not matter to me that a great many of the cases are being overturned, because it shows that the precautionary principle which I think should be laid down over these considerations is one that is taken very, very seriously by the Danish authorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154402	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154403	If what the rapporteur says is the wisest thing, does the rapporteur not think that all the other EU countries had figured it out? Is it really the other EU countries that do not send Syrian refugees back, for example? Damascus because they are in danger of being tortured and murdered and raped, who have misjudged it, and the rapporteur, who is smarter than the whole of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154432	So, I think that Denmark is such an absolutely leading focus on foreign policy and that there is a reason why more and more countries are copying Danish immigration policy. But no one should be sent back to torture; no one should be sent back to rape; no one should be sent back to personal persecution. One should only be sent back if the Danish authorities consider that one has fled, because there has been unrest where one comes from, and if that unrest and the fighting are over, so that one can therefore live there as safely as one could before one fled.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154505	Thank you. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur of the Left. Thank you, sir. Mads Birded. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Sir. Carl Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154516	Thank you. I am very proud to be involved in making this proposal from the SF, Enhedslisten, Radical Left, Alternative and Free Greens. I appreciate the cooperation we have here. I also think it has been strong to see how many NGOs are fighting this fight. Now there was a demonstration in front of Christiansborg yesterday, as among others. It was also about fighting for this proposal. So thank you to all those who are fighting and a little less thanks to the government, which I think is very dismissive today. A worthy and respectful refugee policy is something that is very close to the heart of the Socialist People's Party, and I think it is absolutely crucial that we once again focus on and make a serious contribution to improving fundamental conditions for refugees in Denmark, because it is innocent people who risk their lives and flee from death and destruction and tyranny. In fact, I believe that every 179 members of the Folketing have allowed a small touch of sunshine to enter their hearts on the warm reception of Ukrainian refugees by the Danes. What if we had a system that allowed us to welcome everyone in that way? I am aware that it is more complicated than that, but I think we should work on it as an objective. With this in mind, our primary responsibility is that we live up to the spirit objectives of the conventions, which are to provide protection to people who are in real danger. This is where we fail at the moment. Syrian refugees. And yes, we can legally sneak away from that responsibility by pointing out that at this moment, at this moment in time, parts of Syria are living up to minimum standards of security, but if civil unrest breaks out tomorrow and we have to accept the refugees we have just sent out, or more realistic, if we are to let them out of the exit centre on which we have placed them, then everyone can see that it is absolutely absurd. The asylum system today is subject to such absurd incentives in all corners. Refugees have the incentive to burn off the entire fortune of a smuggler in order to sail into a small boat with his life as an effort; migrants have the incentive to try to get to Europe via the back doors of the asylum system because we have not managed to create systems that can save them from the tremendous inconvenience and, above all, become temporary refugees too quickly for permanent refugees because we have not managed to create a proper repatriation procedure. All those absurdities call for reforms of the asylum system, but frankly, the challenges do not go away by making up even more absurdities. And in trying to solve the homecoming dilemma, we are now trying to send people back to a life that is so unstable that we both fail to recognise the purpose of the protection we should have given them and potentially face the very same people at the Danish border in six months' time. It doesn't make any sense. For me, it is incomprehensible why Denmark should be one of the only countries in the world that allows itself to send completely innocent refugees back to the countries from which they come when the countries are unsafe and unstable. Danish refugee policy has rightly received criticism from the international community. All these patch solutions have soon made the Danish alien law a Frankenstein monster of absurdities, for many who should be sent home stay here, while even more who should be allowed to stay are rejected. What, then, is the result? It's that everyone loses. When are we gonna get tired of it to make a radical reform in this area? I hope that time will come soon. I hope that the members of the Folketing will vote in favour of the proposal we are debating today, which we are a lot of parties that have jointly made, because we simply cannot live with the fact that so many people are in danger of being sent back to insecurity either in Syria as it currently looks, or in any other place where fundamental, stable and lasting changes have not taken place, ensuring that they can safely return home. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323154957	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155001	Is it not quite understood that the SF is very sorry that the special agreement on the war refugees from Ukraine provides funds, that is to say that money is taken from development aid and spent on asylum seekers in that country?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155023	Yes, that is quite correct. For some years now in Denmark we have had the practice of using funds from development aid for Danish refugee reception. And we basically think this is a problem because it undermines the very important development aid in times like right now when we have to accept a lot of Ukrainian refugees. So that is quite correct. We also tabled an amendment to the law on it together with the Enhedslisten and Radicals, and that is because we fear a great deal for the situation that may come now when development aid will lose some rather important funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155101	Sir. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155102	Why, then, are we now helping to put forward a proposal which means that the funds used for development aid will be exhausted even more? That doesn't really make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155115	Well, that makes great sense, because if, in general terms, we were to have the approach that we should never have to make refugee policy that helped more people in Denmark, then we would not be able to pursue the refugee policy that we have. So, despite our opposition to channelling money from Danish development aid into Danish refugee reception, we can have a different refugee policy at the same time and fight for both.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155144	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155145	I'd like to continue along the same lines. Does the rapporteur recognise that no matter how much money we allocate to help refugees, the money cannot be spent twice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155156	Yes, of course I recognise that the money cannot be spent twice, but it is also the case that we in the Danish Parliament could decide that if we now have to spend extra money on Danish refugee reception in the coming years, then we need to raise development aid or stop this procedure of channelling the money towards Danish refugee reception. We could just decide that. So, I think it is a little easy for the two rapporteurs here to call it hypocrisy, because if we are hypocritical, just because we want to help more people in Denmark, while we are against this procedure of undermining development aid, then we could not pursue our own refugee policy. That doesn't make any sense. In other words, we are not in favour of the erosion of Danish development aid, but we are also not in favour of sending refugees back to insecure countries. And you can think that at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155246	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155247	But the rapporteur is quite right: that makes no sense. It doesn't make sense, whether you spend a billion or not. kr. or 5 billion. kr. in this area, to maintain a policy of helping the few in Denmark at the expense of the many who are left in the neighbourhood. And that's what's a fact. Since the money cannot be spent twice, no matter how much money we spend, it will mean that when we keep people in Denmark longer than is most necessary • people who do not contribute to society and who live on passive support • that there are people in the vicinity that we fail.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155323	I simply do not agree with that analysis, because there are plenty of refugees who need resettlement and where Denmark also plays a role, also in helping the neighbourhoods in that we relieve them by accepting some of the refugees who are looking for Denmark. And that is also being helped by the neighbourhoods. I think that our policy should go on two legs: we should both welcome people in Denmark and we should help in the neighbourhood. And I think it is a disgrace to undermine development aid in the way we are currently doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155351	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. Then we have reached the rapporteur on the Radical Left. Here you go, Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155408	Thank you very much, President. When the Minister and the politicians of the Folketing are asked about one trial after another about the repatriation of Syrian citizens, the standard answer is: I have nothing to do with that. This is the decision of the Foreign Affairs Agency and the Refugee Board. It is they alone who decide whether refugees should be sent home. But the responsibility is ours, dear ones. It is we who make the rules that the good employees of the Foreigners' Agency are trying to control, and trying to get around is nothing but skinmaneuvers and smokescreen. In various facebook groups I can see that many jump on the premise that it is the duty to blame that the poor DJs are accused of administering rich and hostile, but the truth is that they are merely trying to do their job and administer, as we politicians have decided. And because it is our responsibility, we also have the responsibility to correct the mistake, to correct the legislation, and that is why we are here today with this proposal from all of these parties. But who is really in charge of us politicians? Of course, the voters do. It is they who have put us here, and on this point the Folketing is out of step with reality, out of step with the people's mood out there. Companies are nervous about losing good production workers, and children are nervous about losing their friends and classmates. That is what happens to refugees when the war nightmares kick off and everyday life sets in. They become part of society. Integration is going the right way, even if it would like to go faster. For yes, I would also like to see a much higher employment rate for Syrians, both men and women, but it is going the right way. Many young Syrians have proved to a great extent that it is possible to become a positive and valued member of Danish society, especially in the province, where the local community has played an active role in bringing Syrian families into line. Integration is the way forward for the Syrians, not repatriations. I know that an appeal for humanity, humanity and neighbourly love bounces off in most of the Assembly Hall, even those parties that like to decorate themselves with Christian values, but then let me try to go a slightly different way, namely the more utilitarian, for what is the point of such rigid a § 7 paragraph? Three? You can start by looking at the effect of it, and here we can see that since the repatriations began, it has approx. 800 Syrians had their residence permit withdrawn. In two thirds of the cases, the persons have retained their residence permit or acquired a different asylum status. If we as a politician are concerned with repatriation figures, we must face up to the fact that the repatriation scheme is far more successful than the inclusion of residence permits. Acidians and other immigrant citizens can assess whether life would be better in their home country or another country and get a sum of money to start over. A few hundred Syrians have taken advantage of this since 2019 and thus a much more effective voluntary scheme than the removal of refugees' residence in Denmark with a hard hand. Why don't you just leave it at that and drop the repatriations? What is the common sense in moving Syrians into exit centres and depriving them of the right to work, schooling and normal daily life? That is where they end up, when for very good reasons we do not have a return agreement with the dictator Assad in Syria. Why does the Danish Parliament think it's smarter to pay 300,000 kroner. per person at an exit center than to let them be part of society and find their own way? We have heard that before the Ukrainians arrived, Denmark's total expenditure on immigrants fell. We know that integration is going the right way, both in terms of crime and in terms of employment. Why would this be a stumbling block in destroying the lives of a small group of Syrian citizens in this way? The Syrians are our neighbors, friends, colleagues, classmates and employees. Soon the first arrivals can start applying for permanent residence permits in Denmark, and many will get it because they can actually meet the strict requirements. There are also too many for whom it has longer prospects, but why not invest in integration instead of investing in places at exit centres? Let's change section 7. 3, again, so that the rules again become the same as they were in 2015, before the law was made. Let us stop going on a European one-way street and change section 7, paragraph 7. 3, so that the rules run away with the EU's other Member States. That's common sense. Finally, I would very much like to thank all the NGOs and professional organisations that have supported and supported this proposal. It has been very heartwarming to find out how many people actually support what we are proposing here today. Thank you so much. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155919	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to the next rapporteur, who is from the Enhedslisten. Here you go, Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323155929	Thank you. We would very much like those who come here to become part of our society as soon as possible: that parents can get to work, that children can go to school, that the Danish health service is open to them and that Danish society shows our solidarity. Part of feeling good is that you don't run around an asylum center and spin around yourself and don't know what to do on your own • that you have something sensible and meaningful to do, for example. to have a job and make money. That is what the Foreign Minister said at the Doorsteppress meeting held on 4 March about the special law for Ukrainians. And I actually never think I have been more in agreement with our Foreign Minister, because that is exactly how we should always welcome refugees, not only when they come from Ukraine, but wherever they have fled. Why should you feel bad at an asylum centre and spin around yourself, to use the Minister's own words when fleeing the Taliban or Assad instead of from Putin? After losing everything, seeing your home bombed, do you really deserve a dangerous escape to sit and look into the air without anything sensible or meaningful to do? We certainly do not think so in the Enhedslisten. The Refugee Convention states that people on the run may be able to do so, which means that people who are in Denmark and are granted a residence permit under the Refugee Convention. Paragraph 7 of the Aliens Act. 1, or § 8, para. However, in 2015 the SR government, together with the Blue Block, adopted a bill which means that a distinction must now be made between the refugees who have asylum under the Refugee Convention on the one hand and the refugees who have asylum under the Human Rights Convention on the other. This means that we are now in a situation where people can be sent back to countries where there is no peace and where they risk being killed, where they risk being raped, where they risk being persecuted. This is not just something I stand on the platform and say, or the other rapporteurs behind this resolution say, it is very well documented by Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and all sorts of other organisations. In fact, refugees can now be sent out if only there has been a tiny improvement in the situation in the country of origin, although, and I quote, the situation remains serious and the changes have to be described as fragile and unpredictable. This means that we know very well that it is in our own legislation that we send people back to conditions that are fragile and unpredictable. Therefore, I think we should seize the opportunity now to change the law when we can see that § 7 para. 3, does not work as intended, as people are actually being sent back into the Enhedslisten we knew that this legislation would lead to exactly the situation we are facing today. But if, despite the warnings of the Enhedslisten, even one of the government-supporting parties from then on did not believe it, one can argue with some conviction that it was not the intention of the law to send people back to war zones and the very same dictators from which they have fled in the first place. So, instead of making special laws for certain refugees, we need to change our alien law so that it generally protects people on the run. I'm sure you're not in any less danger when you're fleeing Assad than when you're fleeing Putin. So why should you not be able to get proper protection when you come to Denmark? Why do refugees have to sit in asylum centres for months and years without being allowed to go to work, while others do not need to get to the asylum centre in the first place, but can go straight out and become part of society? Why do some have the right to a very short processing period, while others have a very long processing period? It doesn't make any sense at all. Before I may be present in the Chamber, I would like to stress that this motion for a resolution deals only with the treatment of refugees. It is about people who have fled war and who have been deprived of everything they own and who have seen family members die. It has nothing to do with people without a need for protection. And we have seen with the special law that it is possible to make sensible foreign policy, and that is why I would ask the government to find the warmth it had 14 days ago in the Chamber today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323160454	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Kathrine Ollyday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323160457	Thank you for that, and thank you very much for your speech. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation on this motion for a resolution. Although the rapporteur and I are on the same side of this, I am almost ashamed, because I also feel that the accusation somewhere goes in the direction of the Radical Left, even though we managed to regret it when the law was to be made permanent and actually voted against there. But whatever it is, thank you for a good speech. Before long, the Syrians will be applying for permanent residence permits, we assume, and they will then tighten into another meaningless rule of the Aliens Act, that is, the one who says that education is irrelevant and you can only obtain permanent residence permits if you have had 31⁄2 years of full-time employment. Does the rapporteur agree that this rule is detrimental to integration and will the rapporteur help to put pressure on the government to change that rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20220323160547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323160548	First of all, I understand that the Radical Left regrets, and I am actually glad that the allusion was received. But I would also like to say that it actually gives me a little bit of hope, because now we have succeeded in convincing one of the parties behind this paragraph 7 paragraph. Three, that it's a bad idea. We must then be able to convince the other parties behind section 7, paragraph 7. Three, that it's a bad idea. I think, in fact, that the Radical Left has changed its position on paragraph 7, paragraph 7. 3 is proof that the law does not live up to its intentions when it was introduced, as I said in my rapporteur's speech. To answer the second part of the question: Yes, we have in the Enhedslisten actually from day one put pressure on the government to do such that education counts when applying for permanent residence. For I fully agree: it is a completely unreasonable rule that education cannot be part of one's application.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323160648	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323160649	I would like to thank you for that. I also imagine that we can work together in this group in which we have now drafted this motion for a resolution to look at what is in other corners of foreign policy which just does not make sense. Because, as the rapporteur also says, the reality has to do with catching up with the politicians. And at some point the politicians must also realise that § 7 para. 3, is not the great animal in the revelation and it is not as dangerous to change as there are many who go and believe. So I just want to thank you for that statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323160720	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323160721	But I think we can certainly go a long way in the group that is behind this motion for a resolution. And while we are doing so, I think we can just remind the Minister that when he stepped in, he said that now there should be more rye bread and less cake in the foreign policy, and I actually consider this proposal to be an expression of that very fact.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323160742	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323160751	Thank you, sir. President. I think I can do this very briefly. We are very much opposed to the proposal here. We do not believe that fewer people should be returned when our authorities consider that there is peace in their country of origin. In fact, we believe that much more should be returned. If you use Syria as an example, then we see that a lot of people who have come here from Syria voluntarily use, among other things. our repatriation scheme to return home to Damascus or Aleppo or elsewhere in Syria, while there are many others who, although our authorities consider that there is peace in the area where they come from, simply refuse to return, for example. to Damascus or Rif Damascus. So this proposal goes in the diametrically opposite direction of what we want, and we are not in favour of it. I should like to greet the new citizens and say that this is also their point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323160839	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323160901	The aim of the proposal by the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Free Greens and the Alternative is for refugees in Denmark to retain their right to protection in future unless fundamental, stable and lasting changes have occurred in their country of origin. Legal Professor Peter Starup, researcher at the University of Southern Denmark, said to Berlingske on 17 February 2022 that adopting the proposal will de facto eliminate the legal amendment from 2015 when the temporary protection was introduced. The change in law in 2015 meant that there was a new paragraph in the Aliens Act • § 7 para. Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of 14 June 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community. The reason for the temporary protection was, among other things, that it should make more refugees return home when peace regresses over the country of origin. The proposers argue that the Refugee Board prior to the legal amendment in 2015 would withdraw or refuse the extension of a residence permit only if fundamental, stable and lasting changes had taken place in the country of origin. And that is the state of affairs which the proposers of the proposal want to see re-introduced. However, the fact is that there is a difference between having refugee status under § 7 (1). 1, and after the new section 7 para. 3. The first are refugees who are personally persecuted, while the last are temporary refugees because of war or war-like conditions. Therefore, Syrian refugees with temporary residence permits can in several cases travel back to Syria, even though President Bashar al-Assad is still in power. The Refugee Board has in several cases found that conditions have improved in and around the capital, Damascus, so refugees with temporary protection from that area can return home. The same is true of refugees from the Convention, for they are personally persecuted by the Assad regime, and if they are to return home, fundamental, stable and lasting changes are required. We have a system in Denmark in which the immigration authorities constantly assess the situation in the countries from which refugees have fled. When changes have occurred in the situation from which they have fled, yes, of course, the authorities must look again. And the Refugee Board is in the process of being an independent body, so I think the system actually works very well. The authors are dissatisfied with the fact that in several cases refugees with temporary protection have their residence permit withdrawn or refused to be extended on the grounds that the situation in the country of origin has improved. If refugees were not to return home once conditions have improved, when would they be? With regard to the Syrian refugees whom the proposers would like to keep, the fact is that it is possible to return. The Refugee Board has decided on this in several cases. And a number of Syrian refugees in Denmark have voluntarily returned to Syria with repatriation aid. In 2019 and 2020, approx. 330 Syrians back home with support, and more will probably want to go home, but right now there are some technical challenges in transferring the latter part of the repatriation aid to Syria due to international sanctions. Once that problem is solved, more Syrians will probably go home. And thousands of Syrian refugees from neighbouring countries have also returned home, so impossible is it not. The Danish People's Party supports temporary protection in the Aliens Act, and we support the authorities' handling and assessment of whether it is possible to go home. It is hardly surprising to the authors that the Danish People's Party rejects the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323161235	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Zimmer from the Green Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323161246	Thank you. Our political leader in the Free Greens, Sikandar Siddique, is very pleased with this proposal, but unfortunately the rapporteur is so ill today. Who's gonna fight for the B team? Last week the whole country saw how the Folketing divided refugees into an A and B team, and both the right and left alike blue-stamped the discrimination among refugees. It must therefore be understood that we in Denmark can protect some refugees who are knocking on our door, but there are others we cannot protect and help, and these are the ones that do not look like the majority of us. That is why today's proposal is really about the B team, all the refugees that the majority in this House really want out of the country as soon as possible, because they do not look like the majority, and it does not matter whether they are sent home to violence and destruction. However, I am pleased that there are still some in here who will fight for the B team. It could have dressed the majority of fellow citizens of this proposal not to have voted in favour of the special law and blue-stamped state racism. In the Free Greens, we want to create a secure environment for all refugees who have chosen protection in Denmark. The refugees we protect should not fear being sent back to torture and persecution, and whether or not the majority in this House want them to go where the pepper grows, we must take care of them. We see some horrible examples of Syrian refugees who have been terrified of being sent back to the same torture cellars from which they have fled. Of course, we in the Free Greens hope that all countries will be so peaceful that all refugees can go home, but that is not the situation at all today, and until then we must create a secure environment for refugees while they are here. Up until now, hundreds of Syrians have had their residence permit withdrawn and many of them have complained and been sleepless at night for fear of what was in their inbox the next morning. At the same time, many families have lost their residence permit forever. Those refugees have no safe environment. That is why we have helped to put forward this proposal so that refugees will only return home once the situation in their country of origin has improved considerably; they must be able to know for sure. Exactly a week ago, a majority in here showed that you well know how Ukrainian refugees are to be treated, for they should feel welcome in Denmark and with all that that means. The existing rules for refugees mean that repatriations will be rushed. The sooner the refugees leave us, the better. Here I would like to remind you of the report on Somalia, which was produced by the Foreign Affairs Agency in 2015, which revealed headless things. Here the officials were advised to stay in Mogadishu for no more than one day, and they were advised not to leave the airport. The officials concluded that Somalia had become a safer place and therefore the refugee status of four refugees could be lifted. It doesn't add up much. That report should be a clear manifestation of Parliament's hasty and inhuman refugee policy. In the Free Greens we say: let us stop seeing refugees as costs to society, let us stop seeing threatened families of children as a threat to our cohesion, let us help them, and let us instead see those who they are: refugees who have knocked on our door and need help, and as long as they need protection, we will protect them, because a refugee is a refugee and no refugee has wanted to become a refugee. When we stop the hasty return journey, we may begin to see all refugees as resources for our society. When Parliament passed the special law, everyone said that Ukrainian refugees must be able to work, to train from day one, and that children should also go to school from day one. We should have that approach for all refugees with temporary residence permits. Because when we change the rules of return, we create better conditions for refugees to take part in society for their benefit, for the benefit of society and for the benefit of their country of origin, when they probably go home and help rebuild it. Free Greens want to create a safer framework for refugees with temporary residence permits. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323161745	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Free Greens. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323161755	Thank you, President. In the context of the adoption of the special law for Ukrainian war refugees, we have just been shown how poor and deficient our refugee legislation is. We are in a situation where we have to make special laws to help people fleeing war, and this is one of the major indecent elements of the Danish refugee and asylum legislation addressed by this motion for a resolution, namely that we are sending refugees back to countries such as Turkey. Ruled is a suspected war criminal. We are sending refugees back to Bashar al-Assad, a president who has held power in Syria through the carpet bombing of the civilian population, through chemical warfare and with the help of Vladimir Putin. We simply have to stop doing that if we are to be able to face ourselves. This is probably unconstitutional, and it is certainly unsolidarous with the rest of the European Union that takes their share of the refugees. We are the only country in the European Union, as far as I can see, to send war refugees back to Damascus, even though it is deadly for them. The countries with which we have joined the European Union, the countries with which we identify ourselves, the countries with which we regard as brothers and sister countries, with which we have a common cultural background and history, the countries which are the good guys in the world and which we usually see as like-minded, do not send Syrian war refugees back to Damascus. Nevertheless, we see the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration standing here in the gallery defying human dignity and European humanitarian principles as if it were the most natural thing in the world as if it were necessary to send war refugees back to the reality that, according to Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, they risk rape and torture and murder. I think the government in this case is showing a huge moral slip. Our humanitarian principles and empathy have collapsed, and the remains of it lie on the floor of this Parliament. I know that a majority in Denmark is in favour of strict immigration policy, and I am sure that all parties in the Danish Parliament, including the alternative, are concerned about how many refugees we can accommodate in our small country, but I would like to see the majority who want to send Syrian refugees back to the situation where they risk their lives in a way that is the case in Syria. I would like to see the popular majority who have tried to be in Damascus, who want to send Syrian refugees in there. I do not think that wish simply wins echo in most of the Danish population. Here I believe that the government and the blue parties are out of sync with the people in their eternal competition to tighten refugee and asylum legislation completely beyond all decent limits to win votes among immigrant sceptical Danes. But what is the point of winning votes with some if you leave your dignity behind along the way? Everything comes with a prize, as the Foreign Minister said in the debate on Ukrainian refugees. This price is too high. It is so high that no other EU country will pay it. Neither will we in the alternative. The alternative will, of course, vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, and we thank the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Free Greens for their cooperation in bringing forward this motion for a resolution, and we will, of course, vote against hunting back war refugees to fragile and unpredictable conditions in their country of origin. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323162141	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220323162203	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Friday, 25 March 2022, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
