ParlaMint-DK_20220517130009	The meeting is open. The Transport Committee has submitted: Report on the Government's handling of the request from the Swedish Minister for the Environment in May 2021 concerning the slap from Lynetteholmen during the legislative process of the draft law on the construction of Lynetteholm on 12 May 2022. 17). The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has submitted: Report on certain amendments to the system of public party support on 11 May 2022. 18) and report on the content of the work of the parliamentary committees and the role of committee chairmen on 11 May 2022. 19). The reports will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130055	The item listed as No. 15 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130104	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 79 by Kim Valentin (V), Orla Hav (S), Anne Valentina Berthelsen (SF), Susan Kronborg (RV), Søren Søndergaard (EL), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour, 97 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and FG) voted against 11 (DF, NB, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), abstained 0. Proposal for adoption No V 79 adopted. This brings us to the motion for a resolution. V 80 of Alex Ahrendtsen (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130201	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130217	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 103 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against 4 (NB and LA), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130239	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130253	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 108 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130312	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130329	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 2 (FG), against 106 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130350	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130413	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. voted against 80 (S, V, KF, DF, NB, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130455	No amendments have been tabled Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130512	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 48 votes (V, KF, DF, NB, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG), against 60 votes (S, SF, RV, EL and FG), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130535	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130553	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 47 (V, KF, DF, NB, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG), against 60 (S, SF, RV, EL and FG), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected. Then we turn off the "A," but if, contrary to expectations, there are votes, of course I'll press the "A" again. But otherwise there will be no more votes today. We will resume the negotiations and now I expect there to be silence in the Chamber. Conversations are going on out in the sidelines.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130716	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130744	Thank you for the floor. When I take the floor for the second reading, it is really to highlight the amendment on which we are not going to vote physically, but which everyone has chosen to support, according to the report. This means, of course, that we are changing the one-year extension originally envisaged in the draft law instead of being a five-year extension, so that we are really sending out a very strong signal that the national review body in the field of bullying, which we established on the basis of a broad political agreement back in 2016, has, in fact, been made permanent. It may well be that our starting point was that it should also be made permanent by means of the bill, but I think that, and I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Cooperation that we have had, sends a very strong signal, also to those who still do not accept that we have a national complaints body in the field of bullying. There can be no doubt about that now, including with the amendment we are debating today. I think this is an important signal, because there are no children and young people in our education system who should be insecure at school; who should experience bullying, harassment. It's mental, it's physical. And the national review body has helped to ensure that there is also a place to complain if, as a child and as a young person or as parents of a child exposed to bullying, you will have tried your case in the end. I think that the agreement that has been made and, as I have said, praised the Minister for the agreement we have reached and which is then reflected here by the amendment is very good, because it also allows us to come down in detail on the evaluation of the bullying body and the other initiatives in relation to the action plan against bullying. Then we can improve this system and then we can make sure that we actually achieve what was our starting point when we made the joint agreement back in 2016, namely that we should have reduced and preferably completely abolished the number of children or young people who encounter bullying in their schooling. So the Left can back it up, but I think there should be a few extra words, because it is an expression of good cooperation that we can now get this bill country, including with everyone's support in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517130956	Thanks to Ellen Trane Nørby. There are no brief comments. Is there anyone other than the Minister for Education who wishes to speak? That does not seem to be the case. Minister of Education, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131006	Thank you. And I would just like to say a word of thanks to both the rapporteur of the Left and the rapporteurs of the other parties for their cooperation on this matter. Some things go slower when we in the public school circle and, incidentally, in some of the other contractual circles have chosen to make the various cooperation forums, in this case together about the school. Then, of course, there are some things that go slower because there is a great deal of involvement in it. There was originally our wish to say that there is a sunset clause that is being shot one year, so we get the time to go really down in detail. What I was then brought to the attention of various parties, including the Left and Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, is that we are at risk of facing a situation in which we have doubts as to whether this is the direction we have a political desire to go and not just the details, so to speak. Therefore, a clear signal from this that this is the way we want to go politically. But there may be good reason to discuss the details of how it should be connected. In addition, there is the fact that there are also some employees who are employed in this area and, of course, thank you for pointing this out, namely that a 1-year extension will then be too short. I can see the rationale of that. I have therefore been convinced by the good arguments. That is why we can jointly table and vote in favour of an amendment which makes it a five-year sunset clause so that the direction is clear, but so that we also have the time that is absolutely necessary to talk about the details of how we approach the bullying in relation to the permanentisation. So thank you so much for working together on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131138	Thank you to the Minister for Education. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131146	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131156	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131218	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131233	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by the Minister for Industry, endorsed by the Committee, that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? A. B. Draft law amending the Financial Statements Act. Sharing the bill in two legislative proposals is hereby adopted. The draft law referred to in A shall then be put to the vote. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 11 outside the report adopted by the Minister for Industry. It's agreed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-7 by the Minister for Economic Affairs, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. The draft law referred to in B shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 8-10 by the Minister for Economic Affairs, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131319	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131330	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (EL), elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF and NB), or on Amendment No. 1 by a minority (EL), or on Amendment No. 1 by a majority (Committee with the exception of DF and NB). 2 by the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131350	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131405	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-5 by the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, joined by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131418	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131436	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 of the Minister for Transport, elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131450	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131519	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-5 by the Minister for Health, elected by a majority (the Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131532	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131550	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly, elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131610	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131635	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131708	The debate is open. It's first, sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517131753	Thank you. After all, the two legislative proposals we are discussing together are not particularly controversial. I really do not expect any heated political debate, but it is still important, and it should not take what to say from the fact that what we are discussing is really about a very big task that we face as a society and about a very, very serious situation for the people that it is about. It is about how we in the municipalities, in our day care centres and schools can fulfil the task of having to accept the Ukrainian children who have fled to Denmark and who have been resident under the special law and thus have the status of refugees from Ukraine. This is a difficult task because we risk that it is a great many people and children that we must help and provide a safe harbour and a safe place to be. But it is also a difficult task, because we do not know how long they will be here. There is no doubt that many of the Ukrainian children and, by the way, their mothers who are here will have left their father and husband and brothers in Ukraine and therefore of course also have an extremely great desire to return as soon as there may be peace. Therefore, there is the balancing act that we have to accept a great many people and give them the best possible everyday life in an incredibly short time, but at the same time the everyday life they get must both take into account that they • let us hope it should not be here for so long, but that it may also be that they should be here for a longer period of time. That is why I am very pleased that virtually all of the parties in the Folketing have come together to make an agreement, also in a dialogue with the municipalities, which has the task. It is about creating greater flexibility so that they can make the best possible solutions locally. In fact, this is such legislation which exempts part of the legislation that we have in everyday life from this group of people and the Ukrainian children. It can, for example, be done. be that it is possible to teach in Ukrainian in some selected subjects in primary school, because it can be difficult to maintain one's competences in physics or chemistry if one is to be taught in a language one does not know for good reasons because one has just come here. It may also be, and it is one of the possibilities, that you can teach from a different place than Denmark, that you will have the opportunity to teach online if there is material on the Ukrainian Ministry of Education's website, or if there are Ukrainians somewhere else in the world than where the students sit, who can teach, so that the skills can be maintained in that way. This is not something we normally allow in the Danish primary school. That is why, of course, it will require a change of law. This is possible here. It is also important to say that maintaining one's competences in some subjects does not mean, of course, that one should not have Danish as a second language, that one should not have Danish and mathematics, and that one should not have some of the subjects that will also provide a foundation for being able to participate in Danish society while one is here. In addition to this, it is difficult to know how many come and in which municipalities, and therefore it is also a way to say that if you can gather children across classes or other courses, it is an option, and if you can gather children across municipalities in adjacent municipalities, it will also be an opportunity. Finally, and this is also the kind of thing that it is difficult to know if it will be necessary, some of the requirements for the physical building stock are also waived. There may simply be some rooms which will not be permanently suitable for this because they do not meet the normal requirements for classrooms but which can be used for a shorter period. All in all, I believe that with this agreement, which we have made very broadly and in dialogue with the municipalities, we are saying to the municipalities in a number of areas, a little like we said during Corona: we know that it is a very big task; we know that for you in the schools out there in the municipalities and in the day institutions it is an extremely big task that you have to undertake; we hope and believe that you can, and we experience that you want to. But you can only make the best local solution if you have the opportunity to have some flexibility in relation to the rules that normally apply. So I'm glad you get that. I hope that in this way we can help the Ukrainian children both get a good place to be, a good education and a good daily life, while they need to be here and that in this way they will both keep their ties with the home country and the opportunity to return to life, but that of course you will also give them some basic Danish knowledge and involve them in the voluntary life of association and children and young people who, moreover, may be out there. Against this background, the Social Democrats support the proposals, and I have promised to welcome them from the Radical Left and say that they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132337	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132341	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech and the agreement we have reached together. After all, we have not been given the consultation answers until we actually got the response and various other things, and we have not been able to take it in that way either, and that is why I would really just like to ask two points that are highlighted in the consultation answers, and one part we have discussed, namely what the KL points out in their response to the hearings, namely that if the number of Ukrainian refugees increases a great deal, new solutions and further flexibility will be needed. There I would like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur whether this is a view shared by the Social Democrats. I can say that the Left shares that view. However, this is not something that is directly apparent in our agreement as such, and therefore also in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132429	Yes, and I understand that question very well, and there is, above all, recognition of all those who have had to make a hearing in an extremely short space of time. It has, of course, been important for us to be able to adopt it here, and that is also why we are doing it in an urgent procedure, and that has the consequence that the safety valves, the opportunities for consultation which we normally use to qualify our legislative work, have been smaller, and there are really two things to say about that. First of all, I think it makes an extra demand for us to be responsive to the objections that may come, but I think that we should do what we did during the Corona, where we also needed to move quickly all the time, namely that we have a fairly firm dialogue with the parties in the field and, moreover, with the political parties, so that we can constantly assess whether new measures are needed, where it is tighter to run into practical problems that we had not foreseen. And so it is also a commitment to the Left and to Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby that if there is a development that makes it difficult to include it in this, then I think we should also talk to the municipalities about what we should do instead of meeting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132530	Ellen Trane Nørby, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132533	Thank you. As I said, I fully agree. Because there is a difference between whether we are talking about 40,000 refugees, half of whom are children, or we are talking 100,000 or more, and the emergency treatment we have now has to be seen in that light. Another point highlighted in several of the consultation answers is the discussion that we have also had, namely how we avoid that only the primary school and only the municipal institutions have to shoulder responsibility, and there are a number of consultation answers that indicate that we have overlooked the fact that in kindergarten we have a supplement, just as we have taken into account the free schools. And I would like to ask whether this is a hearing answer that the Socialist rapporteur has read and whether this is something we should look at in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132618	Now that is not what I spent the most on in my rapporteur's speech, but there is also a number of what can be called liberalisations or flexibilitys or softenings in relation to the children's area, and one of them is in relation to the private care systems, where there is an opportunity to have care arrangements, where, for example, there is one. is being looked after Ukrainian, something that we would not normally accept. So you can say that yes, we need to get all the good powers in play, and that will also be some of the things that we may not normally turn up or open up further, but which in this situation are necessary to get the Cabal to go up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132656	Mrs. Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132659	Thank you so much. These two legislative proposals are, after all, the implementation of a political agreement, which I believe all the parties are behind, and I would just like to hear something. Because when I was reading the draft of this bill when we got it out, I was a little surprised that in what is known as L 202, Afghan children had suddenly been introduced, in other words those from the agreement on interpreters, which we are, after all, parties outside. I would like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur whether you think that this is a good way of working, that you sort of suck something that was not part of the original agreement, in other words it sucks into the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132735	When I said that it was almost all parties, it is because I believe that the Free Greens are not in this agreement. But I agree with Mrs Mette Thiesen that this agreement has been made very, very broadly. However, I do not recognize the picture that something has greasy in it, and I do not know why Mrs Mette Thiesen is travelling. Yeah, I'm actually not sure what it is that's alluded to, so there should be an irregularity in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132805	Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132806	Then I can clarify it for the rapporteur. Because we made an agreement to accommodate the Ukrainian children. What will then appear in the legislative proposal is that you also put in parts from an agreement on Afghan interpreters, so it is also about Afghan children in the second agreement. And I have asked for the bill to be split up, and it also seems that it will be so that we can vote in favour of the part that is part of the agreement we reached and against the other part, but I would really just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur really thinks it is okay to suck something in the back way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132845	Again, I don't recognize the image that you've greasyed something in the back way. On the other hand, I agree with Mrs Mette Thiesen that it is a normal practice that we in the Danish Parliament generally respond to the possibility of splitting up a proposal and therefore also give an opportunity to state that we support some parts of it and not other parts. And it is clear that Mrs Mette Thiesen and New Citizens are not included in agreements that New Citizens have not signed. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132911	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132914	I fully recognize the interpretation that Mrs Mette Thiesen is putting forward today. I was somewhat surprised when Mrs Mette Thiesen came and asked me: have we, Alex, agreed that Afghan children should also be included in this agreement? Then I said, no, we don't. Then I had to check, and it was absolutely right what Mrs Thiesen had seen, namely that it had suddenly been sneaked in. It wasn't part of the deal, and suddenly it was in the bill. Does the rapporteur think that this is a proper way of working? Is this what you normally do, that is to say, in legislative proposals you suddenly find something that wasn't part of an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517132958	I think I really have the answer to that. I think the important thing is that you can be part of what you are part of and vote against if there is something you want to vote against. So I would urge you to give us the opportunity to make that division if there is something that the Danish People's Party and New Citizens think should not be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517133019	Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517133021	But then I would like to ask another question: were the Afghan children part of the agreement we all made on Ukraine?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517133028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517133029	Well, you can't make a deal that you say you won't sign. You can't be obligated by anything other than what you've said. That is why it is relatively outramatic, I think, if that is what you think meets your ability to vote for the part that you have supported and against another.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517133051	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and we go further in the rapporteur's line. Now it's Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517133107	Thank you, President. Thank you for the floor. There is war in Europe. The war criminal Putin has attacked Ukraine and sent millions of Ukrainians to flee. We are experiencing floods of refugees that have not been seen any greater since the Second World War. Children, young people, adults and the elderly have been torn away from their safe everyday life in Ukraine. The children and the young have pulled away from their kindergarten and their school, their safe childhood. Some of them have come to Denmark, many more have come to neighbouring countries around Ukraine, and more may be on their way. We must help them, because when there is war in our neighbourhood, the clear position of the Left is that we must help and that we must help both the refugees who are in the other countries, those who are still in Ukraine, but also those who come here to Denmark. But we must also say that the extraordinary flow of refugees places great demands on the country's municipalities, because they are the ones who have already accepted and are going to accept the displaced Ukrainians, the children, young people and their parents, and they must have a daily life as normal as possible as possible. They should not be wrapped in a system, and they should not be met by bureaucracy, as we have unfortunately seen, but, fortunately, we are gradually pulling down some of the barriers. They must meet as normal a daily life as possible, and that is why we must also help the Ukrainian refugee children with these legislative proposals by helping the municipalities by giving them a more flexible framework for solving the task, so that reception in day-to-day offers and in primary schools can take place as a starting point in the local framework available. On the other hand, and we have also raised this in the negotiations, we find it very problematic that an economy has still not been clarified about the tasks that are now being assigned to the municipalities. We have noted that the Socialist Government will clarify this in the economic agreement negotiations, but we think it is a bad thing that we basically adopt legislation and issue a bill without really making it clear that it will be paid. Because if money does not go to the municipalities, it is the other welfare areas that will pay. A number of the consultations also point out this. When we are part of this agreement and when we support the two legislative proposals we are working together here today, we are doing so with one clear objective in mind: to ensure a safe reception of Ukrainian children and young people so that they can enter into Danish society, into a Danish youth community, in how short or how long it may be, but also without having to give up their own language, culture and identity. Therefore, this is special legislation which is also dealt with urgently, and that is why we are also talking about special offers. The Ukrainian Government and the Ukrainian President Zelenskyj have both requested and called for the countries that have now welcomed Ukrainian refugees to also ensure that there can be an easy return to Ukraine. The Left agrees with this and therefore we also think it is important that the bill ensures that Ukrainian refugee children can receive education in Ukrainian or English, that they can also follow the Ukrainian educational plan, and that we can also use some of the Ukrainian teachers, educators and others who have fled to Denmark, that we can use their resources to create good and secure educational opportunities. We would also like to see, as the draft law also shows, the possibility of connecting online to some of the teachers who still have some form of daily life in Ukraine. Because it is important that we consider that this situation is hopefully not a long-term situation, but a short-term one. When we talk about the good powers, it is not only the talented educators and teachers who have fled here. Fortunately, we also have a great many teachers and educators in Denmark who would like to make an extra effort, and we also see this reflected in the committed consultation answers to the bill. But we also know that there are many students in the educational field and in the teaching field or retired teachers and educators who want to help with the big task, and it has been important for us in the Left that they are not penalised financially for going in to give an effort. We all hope, of course, that there will soon be peace in Ukraine and that we will therefore only be talking about an acute and shorter period, and I know at least that many of the refugees with whom I have spoken all want to return as soon as possible, because Ukraine is their home and they want their everyday lives, which the war criminal Putin, with his illegal war, has torn away from them. That is why we hope it will be short-lived, but because we have to say that there is one but, because, unfortunately, the world is not always going to be that good, we have to take stock of it, and then we also need to reflect on what we need further from legislation, but we also need to look at whether what is temporary legislation should change, so that we also take the reservations that need to be made if it becomes a more permanent situation. That is why we are also pleased that we have agreed politically that we should meet rather than renegotiate, but discuss whether the basis is different even when they start in schools again after the summer break and not least at the end of the year. As far as we are concerned, it is important that we bear in mind that there is a difference between whether something is an urgent, temporary offer or whether something is a long-term offer which actually has more to do with integrating and learning the Danish language as a starting point. I think there are a number of consultation answers, both from the DLO, from the TRISSOLS and others, which indicate that there is also a great willingness and a desire to contribute further than what we have proposed, and I hope that in the legislative process we can ensure that there is room for this too, because I think it is important that it is not just the primary schools and not only the municipal kindergartens who are taking part in this task, but that everyone who can and will also get the opportunity to contribute actively. I think it is important that we stand together in the Folketing to support the reception of Ukrainian refugees, which in these urgent legislative proposals are about the day-to-day and primary schools, that we can ensure a good and safe start for Ukrainian children and young people. • Many of them have already started out in kindergarten and schools, and that we support our municipalities, who are working hard to create solutions out there, but that support also translates into the economic agreement when the bill that will certainly follow is paid. With those words, I can say that the Left supports the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517133755	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517133758	Thank you so much. I am very much in agreement with what the rapporteur is saying, and it is very good that we have been able to come up with a broad agreement in order to welcome these children who come from the war in Ukraine very well, and it has been very broadly anchored, and that is very positive. I would just like to hear the position of the rapporteur of the Left that, at the last minute, after a political agreement has been reached, something should be inserted into the draft law, which is not part of this agreement, but of a completely different agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517133829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517133830	Well, I share the rapporteur's view that it is bad style if we are to use a bram-free expression like that. This does not alter the fact that, unlike New Citizens, the Left is part of the agreement on the children who have come to Denmark from Afghanistan because their parents have been evacuated because they have been interpreters or otherwise helped Danish society. But, yes, I also stumbled over it, and I think it is a bad thing when legislative proposals suddenly come to be about everything other than what we have actually agreed on politically. That is why this bill is no longer just a Ukrainian law, but also a special law in another area. That is why I also support the rapporteur's wish to divide up the draft law so that it can be voted on separately. But, as I said, the Left also supports that part of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517133917	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517133919	Thank you so much for your answer. I know that, because the Left is also part of that agreement. It was actually just more to hear it, because I also shuddered about it, and because I think as a starting point that when you enter into a political agreement, you have read so much into the papers that you know what is included in that bill. And when you suddenly read some new things in the bill that is being sent out, which is part of a completely different agreement that you are not part of, it just puzzles me. But I can hear that the rapporteur of the Left also shares it. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517133944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517133946	Yes, I do, and I think we can afford to be critical, as the rapporteur for the new citizens is. After all, it is also a legislative proposal in which we grant derogations for deadlines. We shall dispense with the deadlines in relation to consultation responses. We are dispensing for the deadlines, in relation to how long we should have to deal with this in the Parliamentary Chamber. We already have a second and third reading in two days' time. At 1:00 a.m. We have a deadline for questions today. In view of this, there is no doubt that what we were talking about was the Ukrainian refugees and not the children who came here as part of the Afghan agreement. However, as I said, the Left supports both, but we also support the division of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517134019	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we move on to Jan Bjergskov Larsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517134028	Thank you for the floor, sir. President. We are in a very special situation and a very special situation also requires special solutions, and that is what these two legislative proposals address. With the bill, we give the municipalities the freedom to receive the Ukrainian refugee children in the best possible way, and for the SF it has been important to create a good framework in schools and daycare institutions for the Ukrainian refugee children who are in a really difficult situation. With many new refugees in the municipalities, more flexibility is also needed, but it is still important that educational purposes and objectives for good education are met. It's been important to the SF. We support the draft law, and we are also very pleased that the agreement will enable us to hold on to the class ceiling for the reception classes and to the minimum standards that have been important. Although the situation is quite special, it must not and should not be a slippery path into a deterioration for our day care institutions and schools. There must also be a great reminder to the municipalities that with freedom there is a great responsibility. Municipalities should provide the best solution and not necessarily the cheapest solution. It must be up to us, as politicians, to ensure that that economy follows, so that the municipalities have no doubt that they can provide the right service. Here the government has a very important task in the forthcoming economic negotiations with KL in order to secure the economic framework so that it can succeed here. For SF, it has never been the intention that the agreement itself should run for several years. We will monitor developments closely and use the opportunity to amend the agreement if it may develop in a longer-term direction, if there are not as many refugee children as we would have thought, or if it turns out that everything is coming to a halt more quickly. We would like to see normal conditions restored as soon as possible. Basically, we believe that children should not be allowed to have reduced offers for several years. They need security and care, especially those children who have plenty of scars on their souls, and we know that many of these Ukrainian children have had that. Recruitment in the area of educators, teachers and others remains a challenge which is not solved by this agreement, but it is an important prerequisite for success in this area in the municipalities, and we have planned to keep a close watch on this from the SF's point of view. We support the two legislative proposals. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517134256	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we move on to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517134306	Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine has driven millions of people to flee, and for Denmark this has meant that we have received thousands of displaced children and young people, and unfortunately many more can be on their way. Hopefully it will not be long before the displaced persons can return to Ukraine, but unfortunately it is the case that we do not know. In any case, it is important that we ensure the Ukrainian children and young people who have fled to Denmark, good day care and educational opportunities while they are staying in Denmark, and that is the purpose of the two legislative proposals we are discussing here. This, together with the great uncertainty about what will happen in the coming months, creates a need for us to provide municipalities with a flexible framework for organising the work, and it is in the light that Enhedslisten agrees that there is a need to be able to derogate from a number of provisions of existing legislation. At the same time, however, we must stress that we want derogations which place pupils at a disadvantage compared with ordinary legislation to be as short-term as possible. This applies in particular to the large class range of recipients who, with this proposal, will be able to cover the whole of seven classes, and in particular to the establishment of special primary schools which we consider to be problematic in principle. I would also like to mention that we regret that the proposal opens up the possibility that the language of teaching at school is not Danish. It may be a problem for children's opportunities for further education if they are to stay in Denmark for a longer period of time, but we have considered, like the rest of the parties to the agreement, that it is necessary to make things relate to the acute situation we are in, but I should just stress the need for the special provision here to be as short as possible. I would also like to say that there are other parts of the legislation that we actually regard as a clear step forward in relation to existing legislation. This applies to the derogation from the language tests in the kindergarten class, which we have generally been very little enthusiastic about. We would like to see those provisions transferred to ordinary law, but we recognise that it is probably not in this law that we can implement it. As far as the economy is concerned, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned, we are somewhat concerned about the proposed model of compensating municipalities under one. We are afraid that this may mean that there are municipalities that are going to relax the quality of the offers for economic reasons alone, and we therefore believe that it would have been a clearly better solution to compensate the municipalities individually for their specific additional costs for their efforts towards the Ukrainian children. We have not been able to reach agreement on this, and that is why I have to give our full support here to KL when/if, hopefully, they push the government to ensure that there is a reasonable economy available to solve the task as satisfactorily as possible in the individual municipalities. All in all, as we have seen, we are of the opinion that there are actually quite a lot of problems with this legislation, but it is not unnatural, when it comes to urgent legislation and special legislation, that we are in this situation. There were many things we could actually have thought of so differently, but we recognise that we are in an extremely extraordinary situation. This applies both to the number of children and young people who have fled, where we can hope that, after all, we will remain in a much smaller number than what was the original concern, but on the other hand I saw this morning that the latest figure of displaced persons from Ukraine is now up to 6.2 million people, which is why it is still extremely uncertain how many people are coming here. Finally, I would like to say something about the sunset clause. We would have liked to see a sunset clause running out more quickly, and we have tried to convince the Minister of Education and other parties of this would be wise. We could not succeed, but, on the other hand, I think we have had a good dialogue that has shown that there is agreement that when we make legislation of this nature, it is important that it is not just set in stone for the next two years, or perhaps even as far as 2025, if the time shows that we can do it wiser and different. So it is like what other rapporteurs have said that we are very pleased that, on the other hand, on the summer break, in August, we are going to have to discuss developments with the Minister and the parties to the agreement and that, when we round this calendar year, we will have to take stock again, so that we can have a dialogue with each other about whether there is a need to adjust the legislation. So with these comments, I must say that the Enhedslisten can support the two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517134851	A brief remark from Mrs Mai Mercado, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517134856	Oh, my God. After all, in the discussions on the sunset clause, we had a wish from at least a number of the bourgeois parties that it was an accelerated sunset clause. So I'm just wondering about Enhedslisten's wording, because Enhedslisten could have helped deliver the majority that gave us an earlier sunset clause. So I would just like to hear the rapporteur's view on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517134920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517134922	So we have indicated that we wanted a shorter sunset clause. We have made no secret of this during the discussions. Now we've agreed on what we've agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517134934	Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517134935	Ah, Enhedslisten will not be that easy, because if it is Enhedslisten's policy, will Enhedslisten be voting in favour of an amendment? For now, we have an agreement, but if there is a majority in the Danish Parliament that wants a clearer sunset clause, then we should be ready to contribute to the drafting of an amendment. So I just want to know if Enhedslisten will support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517134956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517134958	I am a little surprised that we have not then communicated more thoroughly during the negotiations, the Conservative People's Party and the Enhedslisten between. We feel this way when we negotiate and make agreements that we think it is good practice to stand by them. So if there is something that all parties to the agreement and the government can discuss together and that needs to be adjusted, then we are always prepared to do so. After all, we do not have much time with the urgent legislation that exists. But the agreements we make are also being observed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135032	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135034	Thank you. I also wondered at the wording of the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. For we on the Left, together with Conservatives and others, made every suggestion that we should have a 1-year bill. What we finally accepted in the negotiations was that we negotiated a number of times across Easter and the following week we agreed that we would have to renegotiate at school and at New Year, and that the Minister also promised that if there was no need for it to run for two years, it would not run for two years. However, I do not think that what Enhedslisten's rapporteur is saying now actually reflects at least the view we had in relation to who was fighting for a shorter sunset clause in the course of the negotiations we have had. But yes, we stand by an agreement. I just think that right should be right, even when we discuss what an agreement looks like.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135130	So I always fight a big word, so I don't know if I can define it as the way that Enhedslisten has fought and you can look up your own efforts more than it might have been. But we have said that we would like to see a shorter sunset clause. We have simply not concealed that fact. Conversely, it can be said that we have now agreed what we have agreed, and the Enhedslisten is pleased that there is then a commitment that we should discuss it in depth together, partly awkwardly and partly at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135159	Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135201	It was more because the Enhedslisten rapporteur said in his speech that it had been the wish of the Enhedslisten and that no other parties had supported it. And I just have to say, I don't even recognize that picture. On the other hand, I could have stood by and said that we were the parties that fought for that, and we certainly did not see the Enhedslisten backing up. So I think that we have now reached an agreement, but yes, we would have liked to see a shorter sunset clause than that which exists. But, of course, we are behind the agreement, and we have brought in these renegotiations because we could not have an accelerated sunset.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135236	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135239	It could occur to people who hear this debate that we have had a rather clumsy course of negotiations. For the record, I did not say up here that there were no other parties supporting the proposal. I have not, on the other hand, said that we would have liked to have seen an earlier expiry of the sunset clause, and it is always a pity to have noticed afterwards that there were details that we could have done differently, but, as I said, we stand by the agreement that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135305	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Mai Mercado, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135318	Thank you for that, President. After all, on February 24th is a day we will never forget, because it was the day when Putin invaded Ukraine, and with the war in Ukraine many Ukrainians have fled their country. Denmark must, of course, receive the Ukrainians who come here, and on 21 April we then reached a political agreement on which we are now dealing urgently with two legislative proposals. And it actually says quite a lot that when we made the agreement on 21 April, there were a lot of unknowns, and that is actually still missing. But it is clear that we take on the task. After all, we must ensure that there is school and care facilities, but it is also a major challenge and it is a complex challenge. Because when we concluded the agreement on 21 April, we had no idea at all what it was about, i.e. how many Ukrainians come here, and I would venture to claim that we still do not have the full picture of how many actually come to the country. It is also difficult to predict the future. During the discussions we had a lot of discussion about the short term, how many come now and here, and what if the war is over in a few months? But I also think it has to be said that the short-term is about to pass, so we are now entering a new phase in which we are looking into the medium term and in which we must at least see that there are some children and some young people who are going to be here for a while. And then, of course, the really big question is whether we are going to be all the way out in the long term, i.e. whether the Ukrainian refugee children who come here should be here for years. That is why it is also important for us in the agreement to have more discussions with each other so that we can constantly take stock of the current challenges and the current situation. We are pleased that the bill both gives the municipalities a number of exceptions to the existing rules, such as teaching in Danish, and that we also give the municipalities some additional powers, such as being able to make school offers only for Ukrainian children, again in view of the fact that we are potentially looking into a scale where very many people come here and where it will be quite difficult to fit the individual children into the classes. So we're taking on the task. In the course of these discussions, we have asked the question many times: how much does it cost? Will the bill be paid? Will it be fully picked up? And we do not really know what it costs at present. We have chosen a wording in the political agreement which states that we simply take note that the bill will be collected by the government with the municipalities. But it is just to say that it is quite unusual to support and support a legislative proposal that you really do not know what costs. Finally, I should just like to mention that we in the Conservative People's Party would have liked to have seen an earlier sunset clause than that which ended up in the two legislative proposals. We said that several times in the negotiations, and other parties also said so. Otherwise, I just have to say with these words that the Conservative People's Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135709	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135712	I should just like to say thank you for also working for a previous sunset clause. In letters dated 12 April, 15 April and 19 April, the Enhedslisten wrote to the Minister of Education that we wanted an earlier sunset clause. Whether it is a battle we have fought can always be discussed, but at least thanks for the Conservatives, like Enhedslisten, having supported a previous sunset clause. It is perhaps a pity that we have not included it in the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135750	Thank you for that recognition. And it is quite true that we have said it out loud at the meetings that we have had. We haven't written much, but we have said it out loud. And that could mean that a learning might be that it may be that we need to coordinate a little more across all the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135811	With that warning, we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517135823	Thank you, President. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I cannot distance myself sharply enough from Putin and his handsome men and the criminal regime and what they do in Ukraine. It is simply terrible and we totally reject it. And we must support Ukraine and the Ukrainians as much as we can. This is a small part of the support of Danish society and the Danish Parliament and the government, and it is an important thing because it gives municipalities flexibility in receiving Ukrainians, which can maintain a reasonably tolerable existence. For what we see in these brave Ukrainian men and women and children is that they want to return home and they want to return home as soon as possible. We also see that the Ukrainian men, in large numbers, stay in Ukraine and fight. The men who accompany the children and women are from the families where there are three children or more, the rest remain. We also know that there are about 30.000 women in uniform in Ukraine fighting. I think that in many ways it has been quite a revelation to many what is happening. In the past, young men from the Middle East and Muslim countries left their women and children and went to safety in Europe, hoping that within three or five years they could bring them up here. Here it is the other way around. Here it is the men who stay and the vulnerable groups, the women and the children and the elderly, go to safety. That's how it's supposed to be. It is therefore a great pleasure for the Danish People's Party that we can say yes to this bill. We are in the agreement and we will do everything in our power to ensure that Ukrainians feel welcome and that they also later receive the support they need. Because they are also fighting our war, and that is why we must help them. There is one small point that Mrs Mette Thiesen from New Citizens has made, and I am very grateful that she was aware of it, namely that, after the agreement was concluded, it was written into the bill that the children of Afghan interpreters were also part of that agreement. We had not written that into the agreement; we had never nodded yes to it. It has come in so later; we are sorry about that. I was not aware of it, but Mrs Mette Thiesen was, and I would like to thank her for that. We therefore also support New Citizens' request to divide L 202 into two legislative proposals, so that we can say yes to the part concerning the Ukrainians. We would like to support it and then say no to the part dealing with Afghan children, which is quite different and which was not part of the agreement covered by the legislative proposals 201 and 202. There is, of course, a sunset clause, and I do not want to enter into the discussion that Enhedslisten and the bourgeois parties are conducting. For us, it is crucial that Ukrainians receive the help they need in Denmark so that they can return home as soon as possible. And we are all praying for Ukraine to win that war and for Putin's criminal regime to fall soon and for the Ukrainians to have freedom and peace to choose the path they want. With these comments, the Danish People's Party supports L 201 and L 202. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517140220	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517140239	Thank you so much. Very good and very important has been said from this platform about the terrible, terrible thing that happens in Ukraine that we can watch on television every day. This violent aggression on the part of Russia against a free country, I think, makes a real, real impression on all of us. Therefore, it is also very important for New Citizens that we can help the Ukrainians who come to Denmark. As has already been said, women, children and the elderly who come here will receive temporary protection because their country is under attack from a tyrant. These two legislative proposals are precisely about how we welcome the children in particular, which are, after all, a fairly large proportion of those who have come to the country. We warmly support that. However, we have also asked that, in view of the fact that some Afghans have just been put out of this agreement on the Afghan interpreters into the bill, that part be removed from the bill, and we would just like to call for something not to be put into a bill that is an expiry of an agreement in the future. I think it's pretty bad style. However, it will be split up so that we have the opportunity to vote in favour of the part that we can support, namely the part where we mainly help the Ukrainian children, and vote against the part that concerns the agreement on the Afghan interpreters. However, I would just like to thank the other parties for their good cooperation in ensuring the best possible conditions for these children, who come from war and strife, and who we must try to embrace in the best possible way, so that they temporarily and fortunately there are also more who have begun to return to be in a country where they can get the help and support they need. It is also so that they can get things straighter and hopefully to a greater extent than you have when you have escaped and can come back home at some point and hopefully get a normal everyday life again. So we support L 201, and we support when it is split up, the part of L 202 that concerns the Ukrainian children.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517140459	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I do not see any more rapporteurs asking to speak. That is why it is now the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517140513	Thank you to Parliament's parties, which almost all support these two draft laws. Thank you very much for your cooperation on this. I think that we have taken some things down from the coronatide in terms of forms of cooperation, including with the stakeholders, and they work very well, and we will try to bring them forward, including cooperation in relation to the situation around Ukraine. These are proposals for both new primary law on municipal special primary schools for children and young people who have been expelled from Ukraine, and proposals for a law amending the day-to-day and primary school law and other legislation in relation to special care and education services for displaced children and young people from Ukraine. As has been said several times up here, it results in an agreement of 21 April 2022, and in fact it is primarily about creating a massive flexibility to deal with the situation in the municipalities. It is the case that when we grow up, we get an understanding that everything has an end. We have seen wars arise, and we have seen wars end again. And fortunately, no wars and no fights last forever. Therefore, you can have a belief that good times return again. Maybe that's what keeps us up when things are hardest. But for children, time seems much more incalculable. A few months or a year can feel like an eternity seen through children's glasses, especially of course, if the days are characterized by uncertainty. You have to remember how time feels when you're a kid, compared to how it feels when you're an adult. Right now Ukrainian children and young people are very far from home, and they do not know how long they should be here. And as long as they are here in Denmark as our guests, we must ease home pangs, and we must reduce the insecurity of the children who come here. Children and young people from Ukraine must have the best opportunities to enter the Danish society in the time they are here without forsaking their association with the Ukrainian language and culture and identity. That is the purpose of the agreement. The agreement gives the municipalities a great deal of flexibility in meeting the particular challenges posed by the large number of displaced persons in the individual municipalities. However, we must also ensure that children and young people from Ukraine are given the best possible conditions for success in life, whether they return to Ukraine, which is our expectation, or whether their stay in Denmark will be of longer duration. Each municipality has its own challenges, each municipality has its own school buildings, number of trained educators, number of teachers, etc. etc. That's why there's not an on size fits all when you're dealing with such a big job as this one. That was also the lesson of corona. Therefore, we create the best possible space for individual municipalities to make the solutions that suit the exact situation they face. We do, among other things. the possibility of derogating from the rules in relation to the day-to-day and primary school law for persons from Ukraine with a residence permit under the special law. Then I would say that we will be making guidance material together with KL and relevant parties, among others. The Danish Teacher's Association and BUPL and the School Leader's Association, in relation to the educational and professional recommendations that support the municipalities' management. Then there have been a few questions up here, on which I would just like to comment. Well, first of all, there's the sunset clause thing. After all, there are a great many parties who have all been up to say that they were fighting for it to have been shorter. Therefore, it cannot come as a very great surprise that it is probably because I fought for the opposite, i.e. that it was so in the agreement. I can confirm that there have been a greater number of parties who have had a desire for a shorter sunset clause. The reason why it has been important to me that we do not make the sunset clause too short is that I sometimes saw during Corona that we then have to deal urgently with again with all the inappropriate things it can create. On the other hand, the agreement has also given us a handshake, and it is also very important to me that this handshake should be respected... that we should look at this again in August. So even if the sunset clause became long, and that is the compromise in it, then it has been incorporated into the agreement. It is as binding to me as a sunset clause; in other words, whether it is in the law or in an agreement, it is for me one by one, because I am, in fact, going to abide by the agreements I make. That is to say, when we agree that we are looking at things again in August, yes, we will look at things again in August. And in August we find that new legislation is needed, so we are making new legislation. So it can be said that what we have put in is, instead, some steps forward, starting pretty soon, where we can take the temperature on whether there is a need for new legislation. So it is also just, so it is said here from the platform, namely that that is exactly what is intended. It can be said that the sunset clause provides such an automatic in relation to the fact that things expire. I sometimes think that is a little crazy, because what if you still need the legislation? Then we have to waste each other's time down here in the Parliamentary Chamber extending sunset clauses. You could, of course, instead just make agreements that you go in and look at the legislation again and see if you have to change it. After all, that's what we're doing here in the Folketing. Well, it's just to say that it's quite true that if somebody's been sitting there guessing that it was me who, as minister, thought it was extremely important that we had a little bit of tranquillity in the area, so that there was not the automaticity in the sunset clause. Then I would like to say in relation to what has been said about it being bad style, that is, the part that lies in the legislation relating to the Afghan law: well, we have made it clear directly in the letter which follows the law that that part was included because it was not part of the agreement. And, of course, we would like to contribute to that too, we have already written to Mrs Mette Thiesen to have a split so that you do not have to vote for the part that is not in the agreement. It is actually customary for Parliament to correct errors in previous legislation, which is also the case here, in future legislation. However, I can see the point that perhaps we should not have done so in the context of urgent legislation. Then perhaps there should have been an independent meeting in which it was pointed out, because things are moving very fast. So it's just to say that we haven't really broken custom. We have indicated it in a letter. But having said that, I understand the point, and that is why we should have been a little clearer, perhaps even having called in so that we could have said it orally. Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517141143	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517141205	As you know, there is no minister in this area. It is Parliament's own responsibility, so I will listen carefully to the debate that is now taking place. The debate is now open. Sir. Rasmus Stoklund, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517141214	Thank you. With this motion for a resolution, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure proposes that we amend the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament on the powers of the Committee on Inquiry. The amendment means that once the Committee of Inquiry has taken the initiative to set up a Commission, it is the Committee of Inquiry which has the power to examine the Commission's report. This is true whether it concerns the affairs of ministers or not. The current rules mean that the Committee of Inquiry cannot itself examine a report from a committee of inquiry which the committee has taken the initiative to set up if the report concerns the affairs of ministers. Such a report should instead be dealt with in the Subcommittee of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the current rules. The proposal also ensures that the guarantees of legal certainty applicable to ministers, including outgoing ministers, when the Subcommittee of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure prepares the examination of the report of a committee of inquiry in accordance with Chapter 18 of the Rules of Procedure, also applies to the examination of a report by the Committee of Inquiry. It is a unanimous Committee of Inquiry which has initiated the amendment and I am therefore speaking on behalf of the committee as a whole. We support the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517141322	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I should like to ask whether there is a request for referral to committee. As this is not the case, the proposal goes directly to the second and final reading. Now we are in a situation where there has just been a legislative proposal on which there was only one rapporteur. That's unusual. That is why I have some sort of understanding that there is a lack of rapporteurs in relation to the next legislative proposal. I can see that the Minister is here, but we lack the rapporteur for the proposers. That is why we cannot start the debate until we have the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, but, as I have said, I understand that this was not expected to happen, since there was only one rapporteur on the previous point. So I don't want to interrupt the meeting, but just take a deep breath. We are just waiting until we get some more rapporteurs in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517141853	Then we have the opportunity to resume the sitting. After all, we cannot deal with a legislative proposal if the rapporteur for the proposers is not present. But there was a very brief discussion on the previous point, so I will allow mercy to be done this one time. The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517141914	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for helping to highlight this issue, which I think is important because, unfortunately, the use of gas and signal weapons is not an unknown phenomenon in the gang environment in Denmark. It is the opinion of the National Police that the purpose of possessing these weapons in the gang and biker environment is either to commit violent criminal acts or to transform the gas and signal weapons in question into fully operational weapons. Just to illustrate the scale of the problem, the National Police have calculated that in the period from 2017-2020 there have been almost 1,500 cases involving, among others, the following: robberies, extortion, smuggling and the sale of drugs in which gas and signal weapons have been involved. And, of course, I'm serious about that. Gas and signal weapons do not in themselves constitute fully functional firearms capable of firing sharp ammunition, but they can be converted into ordinary firearms, and unfortunately that is also one of the things we see the criminals in the gangs using. Therefore, converted gas and signal weapons are already being treated as regular firearms in criminal terms. This is also the case if, for example, there are I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the Commission has not been able to take any action on this matter. The fight against gang crime is a key priority for the government, just as it has been for previous governments, and with the servicing of the gang packages that have already been adopted, we have received a thorough evaluation of the measures that have been adopted, and work is now under way to see how the problems can be addressed and what can be done to strengthen efforts. As a warning, we will follow up with new measures to strengthen efforts in the fight against the gangs. The main focus of the preparations for the new gang action is to address the challenges raised in the servicing of the previous gang packages. As part of the work, however, we are also looking at whether there are further measures that can help tighten the grip on the gangs. Of course, we are also looking at the challenges posed by the use of illegal gas and signal weapons by gangs, and that certainly cannot be rejected. I even believe that it will be necessary that punishments will be one of the measures that we must take. It is absolutely essential that it is also the illegal possession itself, not only the use, which must be severely punished. We must prevent gang criminals from carrying gas and signal weapons at all. The reason why the government is unable to support the motion for a resolution is because it is based on a logic that it is just as serious to carry a non-transformed gas and signal weapon as it is to carry a loaded weapon, and I therefore do not agree with that. In our view, there should be a difference in the severity of the penalty. The punishment must be reasonably proportionate to the potential danger of possessing the weapon in question, and it is all other equally dangerous to carry a loaded weapon. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution, but I would like to express my support for the political ideas underlying the motion for a resolution, which I think is relevant and, unfortunately, also topical, because gang crime poses a serious problem. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142222	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142228	Thank you to the Minister for the fact that, on behalf of the government, the Minister is in fact saying that there is something about the talk, that something is needed in this area. A little insecure, I think it's when something happens. I understand that the government was prepared to tighten up on the criminal gangs in the spring, or in the winter in reality, but it has then been postponed and postponed, and the question is then when something real is going to happen. We can look at the picture we are now looking at, for example. A weekend around Denmark, compared to what has happened to crime, unfortunately it is some of these weapons that are being used more and more, knives too, and not so much the firearms that are giving higher penalties there have been found that they may give a little too much punishment compared to being used in the way that has been done so far. So something must happen and whoever but the government can do something about it. So when's a minister going to happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142330	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142330-2	Nothing's gonna happen on this side of the summer break. However, as I said in my speech, we are looking at what the servicing of the initiatives so far has meant, and there is indeed a lot that has worked well. There are many of the austerity measures that have been adopted that actually work. But it is clear that when I get some numbers that say that from 2017-2020 there have been 1,453 cases of gas and signal weapons, for example. Robbery and blackmail, it tells us that there are still unresolved problems. We'll never get down to zero, but I think this is actually pretty violent. That is an expression of the fact that we have a real problem. And when the National Police's assessment is that the purpose of possessing these weapons in the gang environment is to commit violent criminal acts or turn them into gas and signal weapons, then I think the rapporteur is right too that some members of the gangs have lured up the existing legislation and that there is therefore a need for tightening up in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142428	Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142430	Well, I have two things. One is whether the Minister can not confirm that this is exactly what the gangs are wondering about, that is to say to reconstruct some weapons? It does not matter whether it is a gun or a gas gun; the appearance is the same and the threat works in the same way for the person it is suffering. The second is the time perspective. Now the minister says nothing happens on this side of the summer break. How long is the Minister's summer vacation? Because I'm thinking, if we're going to October, what's going to happen? It'll take a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142504	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142505	After all, Parliament will not open until October, so the legislation we expect to adopt will in any case only be able to be discussed after the opening of the Danish Parliament. Then I would just like to say that converted gas and signal weapons are already being treated as regular firearms in criminal terms today. I think that is important to stick to, and then, and there we can then have a political discussion with each other, our position is at least that the punishment must be reasonably proportionate to the potential danger of possessing the weapon in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142544	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. This means that we can start the rapporteur's round. Now it's first, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142556	Thank you for that, President. The motion for a resolution proposes to equate the possession of signal and gas guns with other firearms. As a starting point, gas and signal weapons are not weapons that can be used to harm us, but we know that they can be converted into fully operational weapons that can fire with sharp fire, and we know that they exist and are used in criminal environments. Therefore, converted gas and signal weapons are already being punished in the same way as ordinary firearms. So what the proposers want with this proposal is that it should be as serious and criminal to carry a non-transformed signal and gas gun as it is to carry sharp weapons. It's just that it's not really. A transformed signal and gas gun cannot shoot with sharpness and is therefore not dangerous in the same way as a transformed signal and gas gun or other sharp-sharpened weapons. The person carrying an unmodified signal and gas gun does not carry a sharp weapon which can harm others and should therefore not be punished as such. We cannot therefore support the proposal as it stands. But we think it is a good thing that the proposers bring this issue up because we have to take these things and this development seriously. None of us want criminal gangs running around shooting with converted signal and gas guns... we don't want criminal gangs doing that at all. Period. That is why I am also looking forward to new initiatives from the government aimed at strengthening efforts in the fight against the gangs. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142720	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142722	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is just before I thought the rapporteur was a little more conservative than the Minister, so I would like to try to find out what is behind it. I actually heard the Minister be positive about some changes, but I hear the rapporteur say something a little different, namely that it is not like these gas guns. However, does the rapporteur not agree that if a criminal gang member threatens, for example, a restaurateur to hand over protection money and threatens him with a gas gun, it is just as threatening, just as dangerous, as violent and as intimidating as if it were an ordinary gun?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142817	First of all, I would like to say that it is good to hear that Mr. Peter Skaarup also sometimes doesn't think being conservative is a good thing. On the question, I would say that it was not because I tried to be more conservative in relation to what the Minister said I may not be surprisingly much in agreement with what the Minister said. But the reality is that there is a difference when you use a gas or signal gun that has been transformed. If so, there are already aggravating circumstances, as has been explained. But I fully agree with Mr. Peter Skaarup in that it is of course a very, very traumatizing experience if you are exposed to it. What I am also trying to outline is that it is not as dangerous because it is not a loaded weapon, and that is why we are not judged as if it were.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142855	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142855-2	No, but isn't that what we're gonna change? When the criminal gangs, as we can see, are increasingly using these weapons, because guns have been criminalised in a slightly more violent way by the judicial system and politicians, is that not exactly what we have to change, so that it will really cost if you use gas guns or signal weapons? The same goes for knives that are increasingly used by these gangs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142928	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142929	Now the penalty has been tightened up. If you convert a signal or gas gun, it has become an aggravating circumstance, precisely because we see in these years that unfortunately the gangs are using them more than they have done in the past. However, I agree with the Minister that we need to look both at this area and at a number of other areas in order to combat gang crime even harder than we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517142950	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and that means that we will move on to Mr Van der Klaauw's report. Morten Dahlin, Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143008	Thank you for that, President, and also thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. I understand from the proposal that the Danish People's Party believes that what should be at the heart of that discussion is whether the victim's experience is the same, whether you are threatened with an ordinary gun or with, for example, a signal gun. I therefore agree with the view of the Danish People's Party here. The terrible experience of being threatened with a gun, for example during a robbery, is no less horrible by the fact that the gun is a signal gun. The real question is whether the victim in the moment of the crime is even aware of the type of gun that is being charged with. The whole point is, in fact, that criminals are precisely using signal and gas guns to make the victim think that this is why we are in favour of the proposal. And you have to take that into account, because if you want, and we want to do so in the Left, to tighten up the penalties in a number of areas, for example in this area, there must of course also be room in our prisons. But that does not change the fact that we think it is a sympathetic proposal, and we believe that in this matter, as in quite a number of cases, not to say all other cases in the field of justice, we should focus on the victim and be based on the victim. As I said earlier, I am quite convinced that the victim of the armed robbery has an equally traumatic experience whether they are robbed with an ordinary gun or with a signal gun. That is why we in the Left are very much in favour of this proposal and we look forward to the committee reading. Thank you once again to the Danish People's Party for the proposal and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143240	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is for Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143245	As far as capacity is concerned, the rapporteur of the Left does not agree that it is excellent that the agreement that has been made provides a prison for the foreign criminals in Kosovo, and that if we adopt this proposal, because those involved here are very much criminal foreigners who are part of these criminal gangs, we can increase the capacity of Kosovo, so that more people get away from Denmark and serve? That's the great thing about this deal: we're sending some of the criminal aliens out of Danish prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143321	Well, we would have liked to have gone further in the criminal justice agreement and made even more capacity, because if we would like to do away with it in some areas a little soft justice policy, which was conducted in Denmark, where some are given, now I will not stand and use force expressions from the Parliament's platform • quite mild penalties for some quite serious crimes, there is a need for and need for every capacity. So we share that view with the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143348	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143349	Then we agree, and hopefully, if there is another government too, we can work together to increase the capacity of criminal foreigners in the country of origin, and if not in the country of origin, then at least in a third country like now Kosovo. For what is immediately most important is actually that criminal foreigners are sent home to their home country to serve, instead of serving in Denmark. We will then solve the problem in the short run by sending them to Kosova, but we can build that capacity both in the country of origin and in Kosovo, so that these people do not stay in Denmark while they are serving.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143427-2	We fully agree with that, and I look forward to the day when there will have to be a second majority in the Folketing, which will actually help to increase the capacity of the prison system so that we can also tighten up the penalties where necessary. And this is not just a clue outside the European Union, because there is, in fact, also a clue within the European Union, because where some EU countries are very good at accepting their own citizens and imprisoning them in their own countries, there are some other countries, for example. Romania, which is a little more stuck in the brake, and in which we have repeatedly, together with the author's party, been after the Minister for Justice. We can then do this with the new Minister for Justice, and we can ask the Minister for Justice when he will, within the EU community, put his foot down on Romania and ask them to live up to the agreements they have entered into.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143506	Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin from the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143524	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative on this proposal. The Minister's predecessor said on several occasions that he liked to hear good ideas about how to eliminate the crime of the gangs, and I think that is also true of the new minister. Today it is the Danish People's Party that is involved in that debate. As the proposers rightly point out, we have a problem with many gas and signal guns, which end up in the wrong hands and which are used for crime. The National Police confirm that the use of gas and signal guns is a known phenomenon in criminal environments and that they are held solely in the gang environment for the purpose of committing something criminal. It is considered that the purpose of possession of unconverted gas and signal weapons in gang environments is either to use the weapons to commit violent criminal acts, including robbery, threats and intimidation, or to transform those weapons so that they can shoot sharply. Over a number of years there has been a general decrease in the supply of firearms in the criminal environments in Denmark, and perhaps that is what can help explain that the number of converted gas and signal weapons has increased. In 2018, NCC received 37 converted gas and signal weapons for investigation. That figure had risen to 60 in 2019. The majority of these weapons are estimated to originate from the gang environment, and there are indications that we are facing some sort of problem here. When the victims are threatened with a gas or signal gun, they have no way of knowing that it is not really a weapon they are facing. That is why I understand the point that the experience of being intimidated and threatened is the same for the victim, whether it happens with a real weapon or with something that the victim thinks is a real weapon. The intention of the perpetrator is that the signal or gas gun should pretend to be a real weapon, and for the victim it does not constitute an extenuating circumstance if it later turns out not to be the case. I would like to say that we in the SF recognise the problem of gas and signal weapons, and we do not want to deny that we have to do something about it either. Having said that, I have to say that we cannot support this proposal because it means that only the possession of a gas or signal gun must be punished on an equal footing with the possession of other firearms, without the gas or signal gun being linked to a criminal relationship, and we do not really think this reflects the fact that a real weapon is, after all, much more dangerous. We think we should have the proportions in our penal and arms laws. So that's why it's gonna be a no from here. Then there is also the question of places in criminal justice, which is not an insignificant question, we have to say. We do not quite know what it is going to draw from resources here, and I think that would also be appropriate to get into the debate, so that we can agree on what it may be that we have to finance, and we do not really see that from the proposal. That is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143835	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143840	I should just like to remind the rapporteur, and I am sure the rapporteur is well aware that it was in fact the SF that inspired the current sharpening of arms legislation, so that at least one year of imprisonment was given in possession of firearms. It was then later increased to 2 years in prison, and it was then the Danish People's Party that built it upstairs. But with the help of the SF, it actually succeeded in pushing the then government to introduce that 1-year rule. That's the good sir. Villy Søvndal, who inspired us to it, like there were other good inspirations around Hizb ut-Tahir. It didn't really succeed in converting it into anything, but it's a different story. What I would like to see is whether, as a citizen, the SF is experiencing it, and the rapporteur actually says so, as exactly the same thing, whether you are being threatened with a gun or whether you are being threatened with a gas gun, and if we could now find a solution, so that the gas guns used for peaceful purposes are exempted, will help to achieve this equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517143943	So, as I said in my speech, I will not deny that we have to do something, because I can see that there is a challenge when we see more and more of these gas and signal weapons. I think that it would be best now to include the proposal in some pool of proposals that are being examined, not least because we would also have to find funding for places in the criminal services, and right now we have among other things. We do not have the seats, nor do we have the hands to man them. So I think that when the negotiations on a new gang package come, this should be something that we are discussing there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144021	Thank you to the rapporteur. There were no further brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144031	Thank you very much. We are dealing today with motion for a resolution B 124, and with this B proposal the proposers want to equate the penalty for the possession of signal and gas guns with the penalty for the possession of other firearms. But it is not the same to carry signal and gas guns as to carry other firearms, and when it is not the same, we do not find in the Radical Left that the penalty for being in possession of it should be the same. There has been a decrease in the supply of firearms in the criminal environments, and this is, of course, very good, but it has also happened at the expense of an increase in the use of signal and gas guns. If you end up likening and evening the penalty for carrying both types of weapons, I might be afraid that the use of sharp weapons will increase, as there is no difference in punishment. So in addition to the fact that it is not the same, this proposal could perhaps even end up seeing more firearms in the gang environments and in the criminal environments, and that is not what I or the Radical Left want. We cannot support the proposal here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144154	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144212	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for making this proposal. There is no doubt that gas and signal weapons are a known phenomenon in the gang environment. Nor is there any doubt that the purpose of having a gas or signal weapon is either to commit violent criminal acts or, worse still, to transform the gas and signal weapons in question into fully operational weapons. Nor is there any doubt that the use of gas and signal weapons is increasing. In the Conservative People's Party, we agree with the proposers that we should use every means to put an end to the gangs, and that is why we also believe that it is quite reasonable to look at punishment here. There are some elements in the motion for a resolution on which I hope we can agree in committee. Firstly, we believe that we should apply the concept of normal punishment rather than the concept of the minimum penalty proposed by the proposal. We can easily discuss the size of the penal framework, but we in the Conservative People's Party do not think we should stick to a minimum penalty. Secondly, there must be some coherence in the length of the penalty. So even if a gas or signal weapon can be transformed so that it is a sharp weapon, there are still significant differences, and the penalty must simply reflect that. Therefore, the penalty for possessing a real weapon must be higher than for possessing a gas or signal weapon. We think it is important that we constantly adapt our legislation to new methods that gangs use, we are positive about looking at punishments for the possession of a gas or signal gun, and we think it is important that we look at proportionality in committee. I wonder if we can reach agreement on the details of this proposal. Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for being aware that we constantly have up-to-date legislation so that we can stress and press the gangs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144416	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144425	First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for tabling a resolution which seems so relevant, not least when you hear the Minister's figures on what is being used by weapons, which are traditional weapons, and what the development is in the use of signal and gas guns. From the point of view of the victim, there is no doubt, as the rapporteur on the Left too, Mr President. Morten Dahlin, mentioned earlier that a victim, if threatened, never reaches and probably never will ask: Is it really a real gun you're holding? So in a situation where these weapons are being used to threaten, we fully agree that these weapons should be treated equally. The question of their possession may be somewhat different, because of course there is a difference between possessing a weapon which can kill other people and which, for that reason, is particularly punishable by possession or possessing a signal or gas gun. I believe, as the rapporteur for the Conservatives, Mrs Britt Baker, said, that this is something that we can come up with in committee, if the DF is ready that this will end with a report and not be put to the vote. As with the Conservatives, minimum penalties are not our cup of tea either. We would like to see the normal punishment for all crimes of this nature and, in particular, the perilous ones raised, but in general, minimum penalties are not something we are fooling around with. There are, however, certain exceptions. Then I would like to raise small flags: there is nothing in the world that is free, and when you have an agreement with the government, SF and Conservatives that leaves no room at all for us to put more people in prison or that criminals can spend longer in prison, you have a problem here. I had hoped, of course, that, for that matter, DF and also Conservatives, during these negotiations, would pull a little more in the direction of us being able to provide the space needed for us to be able to increase the penalties for some of the very serious crimes in the next four years. That did not happen, which means that either the money and the seats will have to be found elsewhere, and it is not really indicated in the proposal where it should be, or we must do what has been done in the agreement, and we will not be able to support that, I might as well say immediately, namely to reduce the penalty for some of the crimes that are being committed today. So depending on how the funding is going to lie, this will be something that we can support or that it will be somewhat tighter for us to support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144714	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Britt Baker, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144719	Can Mrs Pernille Vermund just state to me whether there will be more or fewer prison places with the criminal justice agreement that has been concluded and how many?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144728-2	There will be more prison places with the criminal justice agreement that has been made, but there will not be enough prison places. The problem is, of course, that today we have a criminal service which so much lacks seats. I think it is quite fair to say that it was as far as we could go because we could not find the majority, but if we as the opposition party add votes to such an agreement, we also have a special obligation, because then we know that the agreement would not have happened if we had not voted on it. I have to say here that I had then hoped that the Conservative People's Party would have drawn it a little longer and said: please listen, Minister, we would like to ensure that we can also extend the penalties for some of the crimes that we think are particularly serious, and also that we can achieve the goal that we have set ourselves together, namely to increase the standard penalty for a number of crimes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144821	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144823	It is quite true that criminal justice is in a terrible state, and that is why I was pleased when I heard the rapporteur start by saying that it is a bottom-up task to get the criminal services in a better condition and to take responsibility for this agreement. And it would have dressed New Citizens to do. But now that the rapporteur has such good proposals on how to get more seats, can the rapporteur not dedicate us to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144849	Yes, I'd love to. An excellent suggestion, which has also come from the platform earlier today, is that it was said to the Minister: instead of going down and negotiating 300 seats for exiled criminal foreigners, you are negotiating 400 or 500 seats. Today it is the case that, on average, every year we have 400 convicted criminal foreigners in the system. This means that already in this agreement there is no room for 100 of the exiled criminal foreigners. And the questioner can laugh about it, but it's just a fact. And when you add votes to an agreement that doesn't solve the problem for the next four years, it's not responsible in my world, so it's just a patch solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144927	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There was just one request for a brief comment I can see, and it is for Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517144934	Thank you. I take the floor because Mrs Pernille Vermund, I think, is a little unreasonable in her criticism when she tries to claim that no more prison places have been taken into account. I am glad that Mrs Pernille Vermund started her speech by just confirming to Mrs Britt Baker that there are actually thousands more seats with the agreement that we have now made. And then I just have to say that I think it's a strange criticism. Well, we make sure that some of the people who have nothing to do in this country are going to serve somewhere else than in Denmark. There are some parties in here who have taken responsibility for that because it was a bottom-up task. Unfortunately, new citizens did not participate in this, but I am glad to hear that the pipe has got a different sound and that it is perhaps intended to take responsibility for ensuring that we also have a well-functioning criminal service in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517145014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517145015	We would just like to take responsibility for the proper functioning of criminal justice services. We do not want to sign an agreement which binds us to maintain the penal framework for some of these very serious crimes over the next four years, because there is no surplus of seats. And it may well be that the rapporteur's support party, the SF, is treated more mildly by the Social Democrats than new citizens do, but I am not saying much more than the rapporteur from the SF says, namely that this proposal will mean that some people will either have to sit longer in prison or have to go to jail today. And that means that there is a capacity problem that has not been dealt with in that agreement, and that is quite real. If you want to be a party to the government and have the power of government, you also have to take that responsibility with you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517145106	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517145108	Now I hope that the rapporteur also heard my speech and the Minister's speech, which was not, of course, about the fact that it was capacity problems that were the reason why we rejected this proposal. But I have to say that the difference between Mrs Pernille Vermund and myself and Mrs Britt Baker in taking responsibility for that agreement is that for us it is not about standing on a platform and telling us how to solve some problems; we are actually solving them and starting to solve the problems of creating more seats. We make sure that some of the criminal foreigners who have nothing to do in Denmark go somewhere else. We have taken responsibility for that, and I wish that New Citizens would also take responsibility for that, but that will then be possible another time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517145144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517145144-2	Well, that's it, I'd like to say to Mr. Knox. Bjørn Brandenborg, a motion for a resolution from the DF that we are debating today; a motion for a resolution which will mean that more people will go to prison. When I consider that the motion for a resolution does not specify how to find the capacity of those people, it is remarkable that a Social Democrat rapporteur, the government's own party, thinks that this is a completely ridiculous criticism. Quite frankly, this is the wildest populism I have heard from the Social Democrats for a very long time. Social democracy would never be able to accept that we simply vote in favour of a proposal without funding without the seats being available. But when I criticize it, then there's something wrong. I think that seems very remarkable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517145229	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Speaking time has been spent. Then I can see that the next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mr Beazley. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517145254	Well, I would like to thank the Danish Parliament's parties for such an interested and positive reception of this proposal. What the Danish People's Party wants here is that we want to equalise the penalty for the possession of signal and gas guns with other firearms. And there are very good reasons for this. It is the case that we in the Danish Parliament must do everything possible to stem the ravages of gangs and various criminals. And that is where we must help the police; we must help our authorities to do the best they can. And when we become aware that the gangs are still playing kispus, we are once again reminded that the gangs are committing serious crime; they are using their tools to do so. So that crime is a real problem that we must combat with all possible means. We have, of course, tightened the legislation sometimes, among other things. with harder sentences, and so there are some who make fun of sometimes and say: Yes, but it doesn't work. But despite that, it's working. Well, if the consequences are so serious and the penalties so towering for the gangs by doing something criminal, then it has an effect. However, in spite of that, criminals are still doing their part to remain criminals and thus to play kiss with our society. And if they bypass the rules, then they don't really care if it doesn't have any special consequences. And in this area they are trying to circumvent the law by either running around with gas and signal weapons, which are of course undistinguishable from a real weapon, a real gun. They're using these weapons. We're seeing a steady stream of messages about this in the newspapers, and the minister also had some figures on how many violations have taken place to threaten and intimidate other people. You may convert your signal and gas weapons into real weapons, and then it is really mad when you do it. But the threat itself, and in particular the use of these weapons as a means of action, as a means of threat, is indeed serious for those who feel threatened by it. So in the Danish People's Party we believe that these two kinds of weapons should be equated with real weapons, so criminal elements know that they use them, yes, then it costs exactly the same in the punishment as otherwise. And it will be a signal from society that we take the activities of criminals seriously. And when criminals try to circumvent legislation, as they do of course, yes, we are just doing it, and then we are shutting down the opportunity that is right now to threaten and intimidate others with what is intended to look like a real weapon. So it would have been timely care if the government had already shown action this spring and had come up with a bill in the Folketing, when you are now aware of these things. But that has not been done, and we can then hope that what the Minister has said here today is an expression of the fact that, in October, when there is a window of new legislation, there will be legislative proposals by the government to tighten up the penalties in this area. And we are completely open to it in the Danish People's Party, if you have to make some exceptions, because there may well be groups that use it here for sports or whatever it may be. Well, then, of course, we have to exempt it. The same applies to guns, because there are also sports where guns are used. And it is not the case that you get two years in prison for using it at a sports event. So we are completely open to that. That goes without saying. We also believe you have to look at the knives. We increasingly see that gang groups use knives in some of their fights... it also hits innocent people sometimes... simply because the penalties are lower when you use a knife than if you use a gun. So in this area too, we need to exercise due diligence, and again I find it annoying that the government says: Well, it may be that in October we didn't even have a commitment to • maybe do anything. I think it is important that we do something now because there are some out there who abuse our confidence in using some of the weapons we are talking about here. Then it has been mentioned here during the debate and some have probably used it as an argument against the suggestion that there are not enough prison places or that there may not be enough prison places. And I just have to make it clear once and for all that the agreement made between some parties here in the Danish Parliament gives a lot of new seats. There's gonna be more new arrests and prisons. A new prison is being set up for Denmark, at least in Kosovo, which means that the criminal foreigners who today fill up in Danish prisons and have their networks around here really have a problem, because that network will have to be created in Kosovo far away from the borders of Denmark and far away from the network they have. So it is a serious blow to criminal aliens that, when you are not sent home for service, because not everyone does it so that at least you are sent to a third country far away. And we can expand that capacity. After all, the plan is for that prison to start in the first quarter of 2023, and we are probably some who will be quite awkward towards the government in that it will also happen. But it is then 300 seats, and I could very well imagine that if it is a success and the transport of prisoners from Danish prisons goes down very quickly, then it will have a serious effect, and then we can expand that number of seats either in Kosovo or in a like-minded country. I know that there are some parties in here who think it is something worse and that the inmates should stay in Denmark, they should serve in Denmark. But since they are criminal foreigners, they have no right to serve in Denmark as a playground for their criminal activities. So everything else equals there are solutions out there. After all, the agreement that has been reached also creates more prison officers. It is also a huge deficiency that we have had for years. It's been hard to recruit. But the fact that wages are now paid during training will have a positive effect; we can see that in relation to the number of applications that come in. This should also be done in the future, and we must, of course, keep an eye on that, otherwise more initiatives will have to be taken than those we have taken so far. So, there's light ahead. But in relation to the gangs, something must happen now, and there we intend to put considerable pressure on the government, because we simply think it is urgent. Something has to happen fast.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150013	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150023	Thank you very much. There's a difference between gas guns and these real guns. And I would just like to know whether the rapporteur will not confirm that there is, of course, a significant difference. I would also like to hear whether the rapporteur is not concerned that if the penalties for the use of two different types of weapon are equated, this would be tantamount to reducing the penalty for the use of real firearms. And that could lead us to see more of the real guns in the street picture in the criminal environments. Does the rapporteur not have that concern at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150103	No, I actually see the fight against these gangs as a total power struggle in real life. Well, it's a power struggle between the authorities and the gangs, i.e. the crazy of gangs, you could say. And, in fact, it is absolutely crucial that the consequences of committing serious crime, for example. menace other people to their livelihoods, is so violent that they refrain from joining. And what's it gonna take for that? Yeah, it takes a lot. And you can't get a verdict on, I think, some people have been in 3-4 months in prison for using these weapons. It is simply too little; much more is needed. Because what you're going through as part of this company has to be so pervasive that the family, the kids, the parents, the grandparents say, "Don't do that, don't do that." So the consequences must be so towering that they can't exceed. That's why there's got to be higher penalties, too, about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150206	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150222	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150240	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by making it absolutely clear that I fully agree with the authors of the motion, the Danish People's Party, that it must have noticeable consequences to be involved in gang crime. For the gangs' shootings, their drug sales, their threats, their intimidation, their conquest of the public space in some places in Denmark and their insecure behaviour challenge security in Denmark, it is less good to live in Denmark, and therefore the fight against gang crime is a key priority for the government. And, as my predecessor has already announced, on the basis of the completed servicing of the previous gang packages, we come to follow up with new initiatives. So for the specific proposal we are considering today: the proposers will require the government to put forward a bill on a quarantine regime so that convicted gang criminals for a period of five years after being punished may not own or drive motor vehicles. Among other things, the intention was to: be to remove the vehicles used as a tool for committing crime. I would like to sign for the proposal, because we must constantly consider whether our tools in the fight against the gangs are good enough. And I think that we all have a responsibility to listen to the good proposals that are being put on the table. However, the specific proposal we are debating is aimed at introducing a specific type of sanction which means that the persons concerned are not allowed to own or drive motor vehicles for a period of five years after punishment and that this applies irrespective of whether or not a vehicle has been used in connection with crime. Such a sanction, which has no connection with the crime committed, seems to me to be far-reaching and arbitrariness. And I'm really glad that our penal system is usually so screwed up that the order of law must be linked to the crime. This applies, for example, to driving madness, where you can have the car that has been used confiscated. Here he has just shown by his behaviour that he or she should not be allowed to have a vehicle available to him or her. As a society, we must be careful not to go down the road where our punishment gets an element of arbitrariness, and this also applies, even though our sympathy with these gang criminals may lie in a very, very small place. But that is why we cannot support the resolution. Having said that, I understand what some ideas are behind the proposal, because it is basically the same ideas that are behind several initiatives to limit the dominance of gang members in urban space, as the government has already mentioned a few examples: firstly, there has been a marked increase in penalties for driving madness. Now, as a starting point, there must be confiscation of vehicles used for driving insanely, regardless of who owns the car. Secondly, it has become easier for the police to seize valuables, including motor vehicles, from people with public debt. This also applies, of course, to gang members. Thirdly, with the proposal for measures to combat non-necessary driving in the nightlife zones, the government wants to put an end to the so-called parade driving. With the proposal we want to hit people, and it could also be people associated with the rocker gang environment who drive around and attract attention by driving too fast or too slowly with scrolling windows and playing loud music to great discomfort and insecurity for those who are just looking for a good evening in the city. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150624	The minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister by Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150634	Thank you for receiving from the Minister of Justice. I do not know whether the Minister has ever visited the Mjølner Park on Nørrebro. There it is, and we should like to have fought against it, or at least it has been the case that ganged people in the Mjølner Park have been given nicely high prison sentences. When they get out of prison, it has a very, very negative effect on the area, because they are able to recruit, show who they are, be the big muscle men who run around and can do it all and thus get hold of a lot of the young people. Part of this is that they also drive around in very large muscle cars and show those muscles that they have even more. That is why it is actually a very good proposal, we think and now we have made it ourselves because it means putting a small stop to showing those many muscles to the many people you want to recruit. Does the Minister not agree that this is what is needed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150750	I agree that the Danish People's Party is pointing to an important problem here. Yes, I have visited Mjølnerparken many times, also because I know people who have lived there and have also just been on private visits to people, and also know about many of the challenges that are in the area. I also know some of the people who work professionally to prevent crime in the area, just as I am sure that both the questioner and I have visited many other vulnerable residential areas and know very well the problem of typical little boys looking up to people with big cars and light money and heavy gold chains, and that it will be a little too easy to run errands for the wrong and a little too difficult to take a job where you put skinned tomatoes on the shelf down in Føtex and earn your money honestly. I completely agree with that. I just think that there should be a connection between the crime you have committed and the prosecution, the punishment that goes with it. I think that is a healthy principle that we have in our normal system of penalties.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150857	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150859	But do we really have the principle that the Minister so well says we have? How are we trying to hit gang members? We try, among other things. to hit gang members by depriving them of the financial resources they have. They often have a lot of means. We're trying to take them out of the cash. We're trying to take them off their big cars. We try to deprive them of their privileges of different kinds. In the same way, we are trying to deprive them of some of their resources, these big cars. So I really do not see what the Minister is trying to suggest to us is the problem with this proposal. Quite frankly, I simply do not see why such a proposal should not be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150945	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517150947	For example, I think it is quite fair to say to people: you owe the public a lot of money. We can see you're driving around in a big fat car. We have confiscated it. And then it goes to foreclosure, and then we spend that money to pay off the debt you have to the municipality or whoever you owe money to. There's also some connection here. I can be a little concerned that if you commit any crime, which of course has to be punished, and then you are punished and then you get an additional legal order that has no connection with the crime you have committed, then we start to move away from something that I at least consider to be something that has been fundamental in the way we have normally had our criminal system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151030	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no further brief comments to the Minister of Justice. The rapporteur begins with this, and the first rapporteur to speak is the rapporteur of the Socialist Group. Bjørn Brandenborg. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151042	Thank you for the floor, President. I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution calls on the government to put forward a bill on a form of quarantine so that convicted gang criminals for a period of five years are not allowed to own or drive motor vehicles. According to the proposers, the proposal will have a beneficial effect and will address the damage and insecurity caused by gang crime to Danish society. I can start by stating that we are fully in line with the proposers when it comes to the desire to fight the gangs. We should never accept that hard-boiled, organised criminals govern the streets, and that is why it is also a clear priority for us to take tough action against the gangs. So far, so good. What I have then understood the proposers want with this proposal is to take the vehicles and driving licences from convicted gang criminals for a five-year period, and this without the specific crime that has been convicted having anything to do with the vehicles in question. This is rather far-reaching, especially in view of the fact that our current rules on confiscation and disqualification of rights are such that there must be a link between action and the pursuit of justice. In other words, if you drive a crazy car, you can get your car taken; if you cheat with your business, you can get the right to run a business, etc. But all in all, this proposal calls for an offence to have a more or less arbitrary legal order not to own and drive a car for five years. And we have just heard the Minister for Justice explain that such a solution is too far-reaching and arbitrariness. We in no way have any kind of warm feelings for convicted gang criminals, but the law must be in order and we cannot have discretionary rules on disqualifications in criminal law. So we cannot support the proposal, but I would like to thank the proposers for bringing the subject up and thinking in new ways of hitting organised gang crime. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151243	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151247	I thank you for being thanked. And then I would just like to say in relation to the argument, as Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg uses that it sounds very reasonable, as when you hear it; but when you think about it, it doesn't really add up anyway. Because, as the rapporteur says, because this is a gang crime, we must not ban driving for five years or make it impossible for the person concerned to drive for five years. But the world is full of different reactions to these gang members, for example. That we seize a car because we disgust their operation in every possible way. What we want to do with this proposal is to make it impossible to lease a car and drive on with a car other than the one you own, for example. So in this way, I actually think there are really good arguments why you can use this as a way of hitting these gang members. I simply do not understand the rapporteur's argument when it is really true that I do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151400	I do not know whether or not I regret that I have not said this clearly enough, but it is because it is the case today that the rules in force are characterised by the fact that there is some kind of relationship between the offence you commit and the legal order that exists. With this proposal, it's just gonna be very arbitrary. It may be all kinds of crime that are committed, which means that if I have correctly understood the proposal, the criminal must be denied a vehicle and a driving licence for up to five years, and that is where I think the principles in the legislation today are sensible. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If convicted for driving madness, you can get your car taken away; if you fake business, you can be sanctioned for doing business in the future. These are sound principles in which the legal order that exists also follows the crime that has been committed, and I just don't think this proposal does.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151454	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151456	Listen: If you are a gang criminal, you will be exposed to the attention of the police and tax authorities in relation to the financial resources you own, including an expensive car. What is the problem, then, is that it could be said that, for a period of five years, the criminal is not able to lease a car either, because we want to make the consequences so hard and hard for the criminal because he happens to be a member of a gang. The criminal could just resign, but apparently he doesn't know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151530	But it is the case today that if you have a car and you have debts to the public, the authorities can seize that car, sell it and use the money to pay off the debts of the gang member in question. But I just have to say again that I'm glad that Mr. Peter Skaarup thinks creative thoughts. I think we have already done many good things when it comes to combating gang crime. We have made a police agreement where the Danish People's Party is also involved; we have strengthened the fight against gang crime; we have created a new unit; and now we also come up with a proposal because we need to do even more to fight the gangs. However, I do not agree with the principles on which the proposers wish to break with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151616	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr. Morten Dahlin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151637	Thank you for that, President, and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. In the Left, we support a tough course against gang criminals, so that their punishment matches their crimes. That is why it is important for us that they are punished both harshly and consistently. Therefore, while we were in government, we have also made several gang packages that ensure a significantly tougher punishment and have moved dozens of gang members from the streets into prisons, thus helping to ensure security for ordinary Danes. We are pleased to have done so, and we are proud of it, and we would like to see us here in the Danish Parliament continue with further measures to ensure a fairer legal system and to prevent more criminals from becoming criminals and committing gang crimes. At the same time, we are of the opinion that the penalties must be proportionate and have a concrete beneficial effect at all times. With the proposal here, from the Danish People's Party, we in the Left believe that the penalty is disproportionately, and we are also concerned that it will actually do more harm than good. For example, are we... Make sure that the extra sentence you want to impose on gang members here doesn't just make the way out of gang crime more difficult? We think that is a relevant question to ask. That is why we are prepared, and we are always prepared to do so, to take initiatives that are harder to deal with criminal gangs, but we reserve the right to be sceptical about the concrete proposal here today from the Danish People's Party. We cannot support that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151826	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is for Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151831	I actually see a point in what the rapporteur says about whether we can risk making it harder to get out of a gang. So I was wondering, if it were now included in this proposal, that if you were part of an exit programme while you are in prison you would be relieved of this consequence, then the rapporteur would be satisfied.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151856	Thank you to the questioner for that question. I will turn that over once, both upside down and with my group colleagues, but basically there are two reasons why we do not support the proposal. One is that we believe that it will not benefit the way out of the gang environment............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So I will turn it around, but my immediate offer will be that we still cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151928	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517151944	Thank you and thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting forward the proposal, which means that gang criminals who are convicted must not own a car for five years and must not drive a car for a similar period. In this way, according to the proposers, gang criminals will be prevented from using cars to commit crime, create insecurity and signal status in the gang environment. We share in the SF National Police's assessment that the gangs pose a significant threat to the general order, security and security of our society, and that people in vulnerable residential areas with gang activity experience a marked insecurity in everyday life, and that is quite unreasonable. However, we are of the opinion that this proposal is not the right medicine. It must be the case that if a citizen is prevented from driving or owning a car, it must have a connection with specific crime. According to the proposers, the proposal is expected to have a preventive effect on gang criminals in relation to relapses to similar crime. It sounds quite exciting, and we would rather like to see evidence of that, and if it can prevent relapses, we may in the SF be able to talk to. However, I do not believe that there is any shadow of evidence that this should be the case. Cars and like those a little more impressive of the kind are a well-known status symbol in the gang environment, and there is certainly reason to look that way. That is why, in the SF, we have also proposed a licensing scheme for leasing companies, so that leasing is not abused to acquire luxury cars and similar status symbols with which gangs can dominate the public space. But the short thing is that we cannot support the proposal, and the main thing is that we think that crime and the sanction should be coherent, and we do not see it having that in this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517152150	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517152203	Thank you very much, President. This motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party is also against in the Radical Left, if I should just start with the conclusion, and it is not because we are soft or, on principle, will not punish hard, but simply because we have to have reason with us when we legislate. And I do not see the reason why people, having endured their punishment, are forbidden to own, let alone to drive a motor vehicle. There is, after all, some kind of recognition that it is absolutely not helping to punish or imprison people for having committed crime, because then, after the punishment you have endured, you have to have an extra punishment. And if you do not believe that it is useful to be in prison, then perhaps it is more the rehabilitation initiatives in prison that you have to look at. On the other hand, I am fully in favour of this, because I think that there may be some shortcomings in terms of training provision and employment provision in prisons. But putting an extra penalty on top of a punishment endured, in the Radical Left, we cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517152332	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517152334	Thank you. I think it sounds a little like the rapporteur of the Radicals here saying that when a person meets in court on the basis of some crime that he has committed, gets a sentence and sits in prison, it is over, and then it simply cannot be right that there is more to it. That's how I get it. That is what the Danish People's Party is proposing here. We would like to see a condition imposed, or whatever it is called, that you should not drive around those muscle cars after you have been in prison. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is not aware that there are other kinds of conditions as well. A paedophile who gets a sentence can get a sentence that goes beyond being in prison itself, for example. That you shouldn't show up in certain places, meet certain people and stuff like that. There's something like that. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517152436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517152438	Yes, I can confirm the latter. In relation to the first part, I fully agree with what the Danish People's Party wants to do with this motion for a resolution, and that is to add to a penalty and therefore, in reality, simply tighten up the penalty. I just don't believe it's gonna work. I think perhaps rather the same thing as the rapporteur from the Left, who said on the platform, that it could make it even more difficult to get out of crime. And then I think that we are heading in the wrong direction only if we prevent people from getting out of crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517152519	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517152522	Yes, or, if you choose not to implement this proposal, it can send the signal that it is okay for a gang member who has been sentenced to a few years in prison to come out and, as such, just continue as if nothing has happened and is still driving around in a muscle car, a leased car or a reloaded car and instills insecurity, insecurity and fear in the local area. That may be the consequence, and that is how it is today, and that is why this proposal is coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517152553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517152556	Well, if you get out of prison and just continue as the questioner points out, then I assume that you just continue with your criminal activities, and then there will be a new penalty, and I think that is quite enough. I do not think it should be a criminal act in itself to own a car or to drive a motor vehicle. I simply do not see the sense in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517152617	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more questions for the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517152632	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for making this good proposal. In the Conservative People's Party, we agree that we must always press, stress and punish the gangs hard. We must constantly develop legislation and we must address the problems that arise, and that is why we in the Conservative People's Party also agree that we need to look at how we can prevent gang members from driving around in these muscle cars, but as the proposal is here, we think it goes too far. We hope that we can work on a report in committee, but we do not support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517152723	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517152739	In New Citizens we really want to make life really difficult for gang criminals. We know that among gang criminals there is a very large proportion of people who have non-western backgrounds. We know that there are also many people with foreign nationality, and we know that despite the fact that the gangs are criminals, many of them are always allowed to stay in the country. That is also why we say that criminal foreigners must be deported consistently and after the first sentence. It cannot be right that we have gang members with foreign nationality who commit crimes that are allowed to stay in the country, regardless of whether they should have the opportunity to drive a car or own a car subsequently removed. If you are a foreign national, a gang criminal, and if you are convicted of crime, it must be out of the guard, and you should not have citizenship at all, which we also know some people have acquired. Having said that, despite the fact that we are in favour of chasing the gangs off the streets and also wishing to leave the country, we simply do not believe that this is working. In other words, to make it illegal to own or drive a car for people who have been sentenced has served and is out on the other side and, hopefully, is also a place where, for some, they are on their way to a life outside crime, we do not believe in. We do not really like the idea that the road that could be the way out of crime is made even more difficult by the fact that there are many jobs you cannot take, you cannot have if you do not have the opportunity to drive a car. And then there is something in relation to private property, where it seems very remarkable if the kind of crime you have committed has nothing to do with driving a car at all. So this is probably more symbolic politics than it is really tough policy towards the gangs. I doubt that we will have fewer criminals by taking their cars and their ability to drive away from them. Actually, I'm afraid we'll have more. I hope that the Danish People's Party, and I know that this is at least something that has been said in the past, will support New Citizens in the fact that gang criminals, who are foreign citizens, go out instead of making proposals that may just prolong the torment a little. Unfortunately, with those words, we cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517153009	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517153014	Mrs Pernille Vermund and I fully agree that we must get all criminal foreigners out of the country by the first sentence. We are in complete agreement on this. Now it's the case that we have a pretty large majority in this Parliament, we have the government, we have the Conservatives, we have the Left and such parties, who then will not be involved in expelling all criminals at the first sentence, because they have some conventions, they set a little higher than that. And then there are some of us who say that in our desperation that this cannot be done, it would be obvious to find some other and new means. Because we can see from the current situation that what the authorities are doing is not enough. Then we are putting forward a proposal here aimed at hitting them with some of the things they love: their car, that is, their ability not only to own but also to drive a car. For many of them, of course, leases, and it is to a large extent some of the criminal immigrant gangs who do so. Then why not go through with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517153115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517153117	Well, I actually have no problem chasing gang criminals when they commit their crimes, but I also know that there are some of them who become part of the gangs who, when they've served their sentences, some of them are very long sentences, and thank God they come out and actually get a life on the other side, a life where for those who have participated in exit programs etc., it means that they're all on the bottom. They have to start all over again in life. And I just have to say that it's gonna be difficult if you don't have the opportunity to drive a car for five years... that's probably the worst thing for me... but you don't get to keep your own car. Well, then it's harder to get out and take care of, for example. a job or take an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517153201	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517153203	I am actually buying the point, namely that there may be cases where some people try to get out of crime and actually behave properly and go into an exit process and what may be involved. If we now imagined that we would have a majority in favour of the proposal, would it be appropriate to exclude those who are part of an exit and who are actually willing to get out of the gang environment? Could it be that New Citizens would then vote in favour of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517153236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517153237	That would certainly be an attenuating circumstance, because for us the victims and the potential victims are the most important. To vote in favour of something where we risk more new victims is difficult for us to be involved in. But let us take it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517153253	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I can give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517153310	We have to note in the Danish People's Party that we do not get the proposal that we have put forward here adopted. But it is in the best sense that we try to do so, because we want to hit the gang members whom we unfortunately see wars and make the streets insecure every day, especially in certain areas of the country, and make their daily lives even harder and make sure that the citizens who behave properly are 99.9%. There is, of course, a question of requiring the government to put forward a proposal for a law to deprive convicted gang criminals of the possibility of owning and driving vehicles for a period of five years. It is the case in the Danish People's Party that we have the basic position that gang criminals should be prevented from using and owning motor vehicles to commit crime, create insecurity in society and signal status in the gang environment. In the motion for a resolution, we propose that, like the system of quarantine in the system of benefits, we have referred to it a little earlier in the debate, for gang criminals to introduce such a similar system of quarantine just for the use and ownership of motor vehicles. That is also why I had a little difficulty in seeing the arguments of the government and the Social Democrats here, i.e. that it was quite awful and completely new tones in Danish legal policy. I think that is very good in terms of what we are doing in relation to gang members in other areas, namely the quarantine system for services. However, the proposal is so specific that you have to register for a period of five years after punishment. It is a condition, it must be said, that it is where you cannot own or drive motor vehicles unless it is a necessary part of the pursuit of a profession. Perhaps I could add that we are very willing to negotiate. One could easily suggest that the exit process is also included in it, so that those involved in an exit process are also excluded. In the Danish People's Party, we do not think it is fair that gang criminals can continue to commit crime and create insecurity without causing very noticeable consequences and opposition from society. Indeed, we see, and that is why the proposal is tabled, regular gang criminals who actually use motor vehicles, also called muscle cars, as a tool for committing crime and as a status symbol in the gang environment. The bigger, the more attractive, the more advanced a car you have, the stronger and bigger it is the ID you can connect with the person in question who has the car. And that is exactly what we have to do. We have to fight this kind of thing. I really think that the Minister was very impressive earlier: there is more status in driving around in muscle cars and being a gang member than there is in standing in the use and sorting bottles. We would expect that, if this proposal were implemented as part of the gang package, which hopefully will soon come from the government, it would give a preventive effect and would counter relapses to similar crime. And this is because with this proposal we go in and remove some of the tools that gang criminals use over and over again, especially in those areas where they travel very and often. It is, for example. around Mjølnerparken, Vollsmose, Gellerupparken; we all know the main routes of the gang criminals, that is, where they live. With this proposal, we aim to see that, for people who repeatedly commit gang crimes, it is seen as a tangible consequence and an obstacle in their efforts to continue illegal activities. So in general, the initiative is aimed at countering the social threat posed by gang crime. And then I hope that if we cannot get a majority in favour of the proposal here today, and that is probably not possible, then clearly • in one way or another can reuse some of the intentions of the proposal in the context of the gang package that the government is probably proposing and for which the parties can then table amendments or improvements. Because we do not get around the fact that exactly the cars are one you own or one you've leased, or a new one you've leased, or a new one you've leased, because you've confiscated the others means a great deal to the identity and chiefmentality you experience around the gang environment in certain settlements in particular. It has status to have a nice, big and strong car, and you can understand that. And these gang members use that to a large extent. It creates insecurity, and it really is a challenge for the residents of some of these areas, because they seem untouchable and can thus acquire the identity and authority of the young roots that this creates. We hope that the paper this stands for may just be curled together and thrown into the trash, and then it may be that we get it taken up again and folded out and used or recycled in some connection. This is certainly our goal in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517153907	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517153922	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517153952	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for the motion for a resolution. It is a proposal that I think focuses on a worrying trend and also on the need for political action. Let me start by saying that it is completely incomprehensible that there are people, too, unfortunately, we can see young people who need to humiliate others in the way we are talking about today. I am sure that we have all heard or read about some of the terrible examples that have been in the media in recent years. They may be victims of violence who are forced to kiss the perpetrator's shoes, or other victims who are poured in urine. This is, of course, totally unacceptable, so let me first of all make it clear that the violence of humiliation is the expression of reprehensible behaviour, and that is why I also share the wish of the proposers that we, as a parliament and as a society, should take a more clear stand against it, and I, together with the Folketing, am willing to put action behind the words. The motion for a resolution we are debating today is a slightly revised re-submission of an earlier motion for a resolution which you dealt with in this Chamber last April. At the first reading of this proposal, my predecessor in the Justice Department indicated that the Attorney General would follow developments in this area in the future. As a result of this, the Attorney General set up a reporting system in which individual police circles, on their own initiative, had to report relevant sentences for humiliation violence. The examination of the case-law shows, unfortunately, that there are a number of cases of humiliation violence, and the review by the Attorney-General also shows that assaults and other crimes with humiliating elements are already punishable in accordance with the rules of the criminal code. Finally, the examination shows that the courts consider humiliation to be an aggravating circumstance in order to measure the penalty to a considerable extent. Violent crimes with elements of humiliation are thus punished more severely than violent crimes without elements of humiliation, as it stands today, and so I think it should be. With the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution are calling for action to be taken against the violence of humiliation and for the punishment to be tightened up. As I said at the outset, violence of humiliation is an unacceptable act, and I therefore share the wish of the authors of the motion for a resolution to ensure a tough line against it. At the same time, we must be aware that humiliation can occur in many situations. It is not limited to criminal proceedings on violence. It can also be about illegal coercion or robbery, and a new sentence on humiliation violence in the penal code will not hit the other types of crimes with elements of humiliation. It could be when a victim is forced to kiss the perpetrator's shoes, it cannot be categorized as violence, or if someone is forced down to his knees to apologize, while it is all filmed and put on TikTok or another social medium so that the humiliation can subsequently be shared online. Here the perpetrator will be punished for unlawful coercion and not for violence. If we are to hit every case of behavior committed in order to humiliate the victim, we must go another way. As I have said, the courts already regard humiliation to a considerable extent as an aggravating factor in the execution of the sentence. However, this is not provided for in the criminal code and, as I understand the motion for a resolution, the wish is precisely to change it, and I agree with that. Therefore, a possible solution could be to change section 81 of the Penal Code on aggravating circumstances in determining the penalty, so that it will be apparent from the provision that a deed's humiliating nature should generally be taken into account as an aggravating circumstance. Then it will apply, both when it comes to violence, but also when it comes to illegal coercion and other crimes; it could be robbery. I look forward to discussing this solution with the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in the context of the committee's examination of the resolution, because I think that the Conservative People's Party is in fact dealing with something important and important here. That is why I would like to conclude by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for addressing the important issue. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517154410	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no brief comments. The next to speak is the rapporteur from the Socialist Group, Mr President. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517154425	Thank you. I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising a very important issue. The violence of humiliation, just the word in itself, is awful, and it conceals something that the rest of us are completely incomprehensible and reprehensible. The fact that stunned people both commit violence and even choose to humiliate and mock their victims is totally unacceptable, and the fact that we are seeing more and more cases of this kind of violence is just terrifying. So we are completely in line with the proposers when it comes to the intention to clarify that such actions will by no means be tolerated in our society. The question then is whether the proposed solution is the right one. Fortunately, as has also been mentioned, we already have rules in the criminal code which cover these deeds, so it is not the case that the things we are talking about today cannot be punished. One can be judged for the violent acts, and in this respect the court can take into account that the perpetrator has also chosen to humiliate his victim. So, while humiliation violence as such is not a concept in the criminal code today, humiliation is still a relationship that can lead to the perpetrator being punished more severely than by other violent crimes. The proposers would then like us to introduce a separate provision on humiliation violence into the penal code and, at the same time, to tighten up the penalties. In this context, section 244 of the Criminal Code on simple violence is highlighted. However, humiliation is not just something we see in cases of simple violence, as the Minister also explained, but also in cases of, for example, serious violence, coercion and robbery, which are covered by other provisions of the criminal code. It would therefore be a pity if we limited ourselves to putting the element of humiliation under mere violence. We think that the Minister's proposal to put humiliation into section 81 of the Criminal Code is a good solution. In this way a judge will generally have to deal with the humiliation element as an aggravating circumstance. So we cannot support the proposal as it stands here, but we are happy to put humiliation in as an aggravating circumstance in the penal code. Once again, I would like to thank Mrs Britt Baker and the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this important debate, and I am also very much looking forward to the continued debate in committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517154642	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left. Welcome to sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517154711	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Conservative People's Party for once again highlighting the important issue of humiliation and domination. The Conservative People's Party made a similar proposal last year which did not reach the second reading. The Left was ready to vote in favour of the proposal then, and we continue to do so, although unfortunately it sounds as though there will not be a majority in favour of the proposal as it stands here. We think this is a good and important proposal because in recent years we have witnessed a number of very frightening examples of the abominable form of crime that humiliation is. For humiliation violence is a particularly brutal type of violence that has the sole purpose of humiliating and suppressing the victim. That is why we in the Left believe that it is appropriate to introduce a separate provision on humiliation violence into the penal code. There are basically two reasons for this. Firstly, a separate provision is a clear way of showing that violence of humiliation is a very special form of violence; a form of violence that should be punished more severely than ordinary violence, as is also the case in this motion for a resolution. Secondly, and this is where the model differs from what I have heard both the Minister and the Socialist rapporteur say, it will be possible, with a separate provision, to monitor the development much more closely and to monitor the spread of precisely humiliation violence. And it is, of course, a good thing to tackle a phenomenon, actually to know what you are talking about, to be able to follow developments and to be able to see how widespread it really is. So, for these reasons, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for a good proposal and say that the Left can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517154909	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517154925	This proposal is about introducing a separate provision into section 244 of the Criminal Code on simple violence, which raises the penalty by the degradation of the victim. This is something we have discussed before, and even not so long ago, but I still think the debate is welcome and I would like to thank the Conservative People's Party for its proposal. There are some who might ask what humiliation violence is. We saw it, among other things. in a case with a young man from Struer who was subjected to violence in the form of punches and kicks. But in the face of humiliation violence, violence is never enough in itself. Here the victim is often asked to do some degrading or humiliating things, which are then shared on the social media, and that was actually the case with the young man who was watched on the video could hear saying: I am a slave. In the SF, we therefore agree with the proposers that domination violence has a particularly punishable element, because the act of violence is filmed, and the film is used to threaten the victim with subsequent or put out to public spectacles to degrade the victim. It adds an extra insulting and humiliating dimension to the act, because the victim will also be exhibited and subdued on top of the violent assault. However, we are less in agreement with the need for a specific paragraph, and in the context of the new consent law it was indeed one of the elements we discussed, that is, that rape is equally serious, regardless of who committed it. It also meant that we said that it should not give less punishment just because the rape was committed by someone you know rather than by a stranger who jumps out of a bush. The same is true here. We should not have a paragraph for any kind of violence. On the other hand, we would like to support the fact that domination must be an aggravating circumstance. We think this is appropriate, and since it is also a phenomenon that we sometimes encounter, we also think that this is something that we should take care of and sanction. In other words, the SF will say that we do not support the proposal as it stands, but we recognise the need to make humiliation violence an aggravating circumstance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517155138	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517155148	Thank you very much, President. Thanks to Conservatives for focusing on this nasty phenomenon, I would like to call it what humiliation violence and domination violence really are. What is in the proposal is that humiliation violence should have its own paragraph in the criminal code. We in the Radical Left cannot support that. If any offense or crime were to have its own paragraph, the penal code would be very long. But to look at it as an aggravating circumstance we are, in fact, open to, and the government is suggesting that you could look that way. My question is, and we can then try to examine it in committee, whether it is not already an aggravating circumstance, and whether the courts are not already taking into account it, in other words, taking into account participation in the violence of humiliation and the violence of domination in connection with the execution of the sentence. This is among other things. the question which I would like to have answered in the course of the committee's proceedings. But we cannot support a separate paragraph of the criminal code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517155310	There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. As far as I can see, the next rapporteur from the Conservative People's Party is. Sorry, it is not the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, because they are the authors of the motion. So the next one is from the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517155339	Thank you for that and thank you to the Conservatives for a very good proposal. We have it in the Danish People's Party in exactly the same way as the Conservatives. It might as well have been us who had made the proposal. That also means that I can say that we will vote for it if it comes to the vote. We are also interested in hearing about it if the government finds that there are better tools in the legislation to hit them then it is also fine. But it is a sure thing that we must put an end to the violence of humiliation or domination. We have to. Unfortunately, this is a phenomenon that we have seen more and more in recent years, for example, in which a group, for example. immigrant boys join forces and practice a very terrible behavior towards a boy or a girl. It's far worse than bullying because it includes violence. It is violence that is carried out by a great crowd, and it creates very great fear in those who suffer, and also in those who see that it affects you. It is usually a much younger or a little younger victim who is attacked, where the séance is then filmed, and then you see that there is something that can be used to humiliate or pressure the victim. It then comes to social media, where it can be difficult to get it removed again, because social media live in their own world outside the power of legislators and the opportunity to do something. So there is very good reason to fight both the action itself, but also the fact that something has been filmed and subsequently put out on social media. It is also clear to us in the Danish People's Party that there is a lack of real legislation in this area. That is why we can support the motion for a resolution to include an independent provision in the criminal code, which takes account in particular of this relatively new phenomenon. There's no harm in making special paragraphs. Fortunately, in recent years we have had the opportunity to do so in some areas of punishment, because new forms of crime are emerging, and should we then just sit with our arms crossed and say that this probably fits somewhere in our current setup, our current legislation, or should we be able to punish separately in the area in question, so that the police and the prosecution also have an incentive to get hold of those who commit it? This is for the Danish People's Party, because of course this kind of domination and humiliation violence should not fall between two chairs and lead to low penalties. There must be high, significant penalties for it, and action must be taken all around. This applies both to the action itself, but it also applies to the fact that some people post it on social media afterwards. It must be removed from there, and it must be done very quickly and not, as it is today, where it just stays.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517155658	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There are no brief comments, so the next one is the rapporteur for New Citizens, Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517155705	When society changes, the law must keep up. Decades of policy on foreigners have caused great problems for our societies, not least when we talk about crime and, in particular, the serious form of crime. Violence of humiliation is one of the phenomena which unfortunately followed the failed immigration policy. We have seen the phenomenon and known it for a long time from Sweden, so long that Swedish police, where there are otherwise similarities between political correctness and Swedish police, have actually been out to say that this is a well-known phenomenon. They said in the winter of 2020 that it is nothing new; we have more and more of that sort of thing. You also said quite clearly that this was very much about immigrant groups, immigrant gangs, immigrant boys, who typically gathered around one person or a few, random, who seemed to be victims that could be humiliated. And Swedish police went so far that they told us how some of these very rough examples were about a kind of violence we are not used to in Denmark. It is neither simple violence nor gross violence, it is humiliation violence, and therefore there is also a need to have a special provision for it. The February 2020 article said: "You urinate them in your mouth, and you force people to chew cigarette shutters and swallow them. I don't know what anyone else thinks about that stuff. But if it were my children who had been exposed to this kind of thing and it had been filmed and it had been shared on social media, then I would not accept that there was a Parliament that just went to thank that this could be a particularly aggravating circumstance and that the legislation is, as the law has been all along, and certainly not when we know that this is a growing problem. We would like to thank the Conservative People's Party for not only putting forward the proposal once, but also for putting forward the proposal this time and also for providing funding for the proposal, and we fully support the proposal. I am glad that the Danish Parliament also realises that when society changes, the legislation must also do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517155949	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, Britt Baker of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517160000	Thank you for that, thank you to the Minister, and thank you to the rapporteurs who support this very important proposal. It is a proposal that focuses on domination and humiliation violence, a phenomenon that is gaining momentum, especially among non-western Danes. The trend of humiliation violence is worrying and it is a phenomenon to which we need to respond consistently. In the past it was a phenomenon that we mainly and perhaps only knew from Sweden, so it is deeply worrying that it is now also happening in Denmark, even regularly. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen an increasing tendency for groups of young people not only to resort to violence, but to do so with the aim of dominating or humiliating their victims. It may be that the victim is mocked, that there is laughing, while the victim is forced to drink urine, kiss shoes or is spit on, and then it is split on social media. It is absolutely insane and it is something to which we simply have to respond. This is a particularly brutal and humiliating form of abuse, not only inflicting physical pain on the victim, but at the same time exhibiting and humiliating him, and then it is very, very special when filmed and exhibited on social media. The purpose of this resolution is to make it a criminal offence to commit humiliation, and the motion for a resolution also calls for a general increase in the punishment of humiliation. Because we have to strike hard, and we have to take action now, so that Denmark does not see an increasing tendency towards humiliation violence, as we have seen in Sweden, and therefore I am very pleased that so many parties here in the Danish Parliament agree to distance themselves from the violence of humiliation and that they agree to make legislative changes. I note that the Minister for Justice says that it should be technically elsewhere in the penal code. I sign for that, and of course we are prepared to do so. For the Conservative People's Party, the most important thing is that we get legislation that works and that curbs this nasty phenomenon.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517160229	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517160233	Thank you, and again thank the Conservative People's Party for putting forward the proposal here. In the autumn there was a case in which, as far as I remember, six young people were convicted of humiliation and, in my view, that was not very severe punishment, and especially for one of those who was a young foreign man, I found it rather striking that, despite the fact that the prosecution had demanded expulsion, the judges chose to confine themselves to giving him a warning. Hopefully, if we tighten up the punishment at some point, if only when there is a bourgeois majority, will the Conservative People's Party help to tighten up the punishment so far that, in the case of foreign nationals, the violence of humiliation will also result in expulsion?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517160319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517160320	We are certainly willing to look at how far one can go. It is clear, of course, that it must be proportionate to other penalties. In general terms, however, we believe that there should be more scope for crime. So, yes, we're willing to look at it. I cannot stand here and say which cases will go in and which cases will not, I do not know the situation that Mrs Pernille Vermund describes here. In general terms, however, we need to be tougher in relation to the practice of crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517160348	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517160349	But then it is important to find out when we talk about proportionality, where the violence of humiliation then lies for the Conservative People's Party. For me, a form of crime is rape, for example. Some of the most serious things you can do to another human being, and that's only approx. 60% by foreign nationals convicted of rape in Denmark who are deported 40 per cent. I'll be allowed to stay here. We're going down to 50 percent. or 25%.? How far are we going down? How few are to be deported? If you are a foreign national, that is, a non-Danish citizen, resident in this country and you commit this kind of violent crime, should you just be allowed to stay here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517160427	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517160427-2	No, you shouldn't, and that rape figure is far too low. I think that we should approach it in such a way, when we hope to have a bourgeois majority, that we sit down and see the rules through and get a line on what we are going to accept. I would much rather do that than stand here from the platform and take one decision at a time. Even if we're about to go on a summer vacation, I think it might be a long time anyway. Let's sit down and let's see what makes sense. At any rate, I believe that the majority of citizens agree that more people are going home than are coming today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517160505	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517160520	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517160537	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Socialist People's Party for the motion for a resolution on the rights of victims of terrorism, and also to the Finn Nørgaard Association, which I can see is present in the gallery today, and which has also played a role here. The SF wants to oblige the government to investigate the cost of securing victims of terrorist acts the rights laid down in the victim directive and in the terrorist directive, and I am in favour of this. It is important that we help the victims of terrorist acts in the best possible way, both right after the incident has occurred and also in the long term. Terrorism is a gross attack on our free and democratic society. At the same time, it is a violent and insulting attack on one or more individual individuals. The victims of terrorist acts are often victims of life, and it is natural that we should do what we can to protect them. However, I would like to start by stating that there is already help for victims and relatives, including victims and relatives who have been in contact with terrorist acts. It is not the case that they are left all alone without help. In addition to police help on e.g. the scene of the crime is given the main effort in relation to victims of terrorist incidents in the health sector, including: through psychosocial interventions. The organisation of the interventions and any further initiatives in relation to the victims of a terrorist incident will be assessed in relation to the specific incident. This will also ensure that the specific needs of the individual victim are taken into account. In addition, the State already grants compensation and compensation to victims who have been injured if the infringement has been committed in the Danish State. This means, inter alia, that the State has the possibility to compensate for the cost of psychological care and other health costs. However, the fact that there is already help is not the same as the fact that we do not have to do any more, and therefore I also agree that it is appropriate to examine whether, following the two directives, this is about the directive on victims and the anti-terrorism directive, the right to help and support which victims of terrorism in Denmark do not already have. As my predecessor has previously informed the Legal Affairs Committee, an analysis of the victim directive was prepared in the context of the referendum on the reservation of rights. A similar analysis is currently not available of the sacrificial rights in the anti-terrorism directive, and I would now like to ask my officials to prepare it. I can therefore support the proposal to examine the cost of securing victims of terrorist acts the rights deriving from the two directives. If we then have an overview of what this is about and what it might cost, then we must, of course, have a dialogue on the possibility of introducing rights and how it could be financed. At the same time, I want to make it clear that it will not be possible to complete such work in this Assembly, but that it is my immediate expectation that it will be possible to do so this year. The government can therefore support the proposal with the reservations I have just mentioned. In conclusion, thank you to the SF and thank you to the Finn Nørgaard Association for focusing on this important issue of how we treat victims of terrorism. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517160849	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are embarking on the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517160901	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor and also thank you to the SF for making this very important proposal. Terrorism is targeted attacks on our free and open society. Terrorism is intended to frighten and oppress and cause us to live in fear, and then there is the senseless violence that affects completely innocent people, people who can change their entire lives and reality. That is why there is no doubt that victims of terrorism must have all the support and all the help and recognition they need. Fortunately, in Denmark we have a system that can deal with victims, including victims of terrorism, but perhaps more can be done. There are indications of that. This is what this motion for a resolution proposes for us to examine, and I think that is a good idea. Now we have heard the Minister state that he supports the proposal so that we can first examine the costs. Then we will have to decide whether or not to introduce rights and possible funding. Of course, we also support the proposal with the same reservations regarding the process, and then we look forward to seeing the studies when they are available. Thank you again to the SF for the proposal, and thank you to the Finn Nørgaard Association for the hard work. I am glad that we will have to look into whether there is more that can be done in this important area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517161025	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517161040	Thank you for that, President. Terrorism is inhumanity and, of course, for the victims and the victims' families, it is a terrible situation when terror strikes. We hope, of course, that in the future there will be no Danes who will be the victims of terrorist acts, but unfortunately that is not a guarantee that anyone in this Chamber can offer. We in the Left therefore consider it sensible to examine what it will cost to strengthen the rights of the Danish victims of terrorism and their opportunities in every way. Once we have that knowledge, we can take an informed debate on what opportunities we have specifically to support the rights of victims of terrorism so that they can get the help they need. It is a very relevant debate, it is a very important debate and therefore a great thank you to the SF for raising the debate and putting forward the proposal here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517161152	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517161206	Thank you. Many will recall where they were on Tuesday, September 11, 2001, when the DR went into the air with an extra broadcast and reported that two planes had flown into the twin towers in New York. It was not long before the conclusion was clear: the United States was hit by a terrorist attack. I myself was only a year old when the Wall fell, so for me the nine pupil was the first event that was truly landmark, where one could really feel that now the world will change a concrete physical attack on central buildings in the United States and with scary deaths. But that's more like it. It was an attack on freedom and an attack on democracy, a reminder that we had not reached the end of history, but on the contrary stood on the threshold of a new reality. In this way, a terrorist attack is something very special. It has its concrete physical form as so much other than crime, but it serves as a purpose for something quite different: to create fear, to create uncertainty and instability, and not least the feeling that it can happen in even the safest corners of the world. As was the case with the massacre on the otherwise idyllic island of Utoya, where extreme right-wing Anders Breivik brutally killed 77 young people. It has given the Norwegians and perhaps in fact the whole of Scandinavia a collective trauma that can be felt to this day. I can only imagine, therefore, not being familiar with, but only imagining what it does to victims and relatives who have been directly victims of terrorist acts. What we share as a collective trauma, they have experienced as quite concrete experience that follows them for the rest of their lives. I would therefore like to thank the SF for presenting this resolution, which aims to examine whether we cannot do more to support victims and relatives for a terrorist attack. Yes, that is something we simply need to examine, and of course we support it in the Radical Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517161431	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur, and then I think the next rapporteur I can see in the Chamber is from the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517161446	Thank you for that and thank you to the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. This is a very good resolution. I would also like to thank the Finn Nørgaard Association for the work they have done. They've been fighting for this for a long time. It is good that we will have this dealt with in this Chamber. We in Conservatives support the proposal. That is a very good suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517161510	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517161529	This proposal is moving very rapidly here. This is perhaps just as good today, because it suggests that there is a relatively high degree of agreement that this proposal is very well made. At least we in the Danish People's Party feel that it is right to impose on the government that the parliamentary assembly we come to investigate what it costs to ensure that victims of terrorism are guaranteed a number of rights. We believe that there are many good prospects in the resolution. We agree with the proposers that all victims of crime must experience the support of the authorities that is necessary for them to move forward in life, and it goes without saying that if you have been subjected to terror, experienced terror, it is quite violent and perhaps insurmountable consequences for your life. There are also some things about this, of course, in terms of penalties. It is a well-known fact that the Danish People's Party sees a great need for us to punish significantly and harshly, so that society and in particular the victims experience a sense of justice. However, aid also involves a different dimension to this motion for a resolution, namely the question of the rights of victims. We support with DF adequate rights and necessary support and protection for victims of terrorism, including proactive crisis relief, knowledgeable psychological assistance, victim support to remedy late followers, as well as guidance and information on any legal, practical and financial matter being dealt with. You have to remember that if you experience such a thing, you may be completely disengaged in your life. You may not be able to attend an education, and you cannot do a job; you cannot do anything. That is why, of course, there is a need for society to go in with various means. For these reasons, we can support the proposal to examine the cost of ensuring that victims of terrorism are guaranteed a number of rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517161803	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517161819	As a society, we must do much more to prevent terrorism. When I hear and read ratings from PET that we have exit centres in Denmark, which are developing into potential terrorist nests, and we have a government that does not solve the real problem, then I have to say that I am worried. When we have an alien policy in which some of the people who are foreign nationals and who are deeply radicalised are allowed to stay here anyway; or when we have a government that brings radicalised Islamists back to Denmark after they have been on the road as Syrian warriors... what we others would call terrorists... then I also get worried. So we can do more to reduce the risk of terrorism, even without this implying that we must compromise violently with the freedom that we want to live with in a society such as the Danish one. Having said that, no government will ever be able to provide a guarantee that a country will not be subjected to terror, that a person will not be subjected to terror or that people will not be subjected to terror when they leave. Today we are discussing two proposals from the SF, the first of which concerns the victims of terrorism in general and the rights of victims of terrorism in general, and we fully support the proposal. Whether it is rights that correspond to the EU directives or other rights, we must find out when the government has examined what is different from the rights that you have as victims of terrorism and relatives of victims of terrorism today, and what are conditions if you adapt what other countries have done to EU directives. I think it is important that we, as Danes, stand together on this problem, both in order to prevent terrorism, and when we look each other in the eye and ask: how can we maintain a free, secure and secure society and at the same time take care of each other if the terrible thing should happen that an act of terrorism is committed? So in those words, we support the proposal. And again: whether it is one by one the EU directives that we need to lean on, or whether we can do better by doing it differently, is not so important to us. But we support the government's investigation. And again, I would like to thank the SF for making the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517162102	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. There are no brief comments. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517162123	First of all, I would like to express my thanks for some excellent speeches by the rapporteur. There was not much to debate, because fortunately we are very much in agreement on the direction of this. In fact, I think it is positive to note that, despite the fact that, especially at this time, we can have different views on the European Union, we support the fact that aid for victims of terrorism is, after all, so important a matter that if an EU directive can help rights on the way, we are, in fact, ready to look at it. It is clear that I would rather have put forward a proposal which directly implemented the directive and the rights, but I also had to acknowledge that we do not know the cost of it and that we do not quite know how it can be transferred to Danish law. That's why it became this middle-class solution, where we start an investigation and learn more about it and get some money on it, and then we can decide how we can actually land the case itself. Nor is it a secret how this proposal has actually come into being. The background is that the Finn Nørgaard Association has gone around to all the legal rapporteurs, I have the feeling, in shifts for many months. I have at least had several meetings with the Finn Nørgaard Association. Together they have stubbornly, persistently and tirelessly focused on the victims of terrorism, what can be said, the lack of help they have experienced. They have come up with their reports, they have come up with suggestions for improvements for the victims. At any rate, I have been impressed by this. That is why I think we owe them a great deal of thanks, because it is very much their efforts that have enabled us to move forward with the proposal, I have the impression. Then I would like to put a little more words on it. I was the legal rapporteur when we saw the attack on the Krudtønde and the Jewish synagogue. I don't think there are so many legal rapporteurs anymore who remember that. I'm thinking it's just sir. Peter Skaarup and me, who were actually court rapporteurs at the time. I also remember well the time after which, of course, the focus was on doing everything we could to avoid a repetition. And it also gave rise to a number of initiatives. We got guarded in many places, what we didn't have before; we strengthened the police; we strengthened the investigation; we turned our attention to the criminal services. But there was one place where we didn't turn the light very well, and that was actually the victims. I have had no doubt, in human terms, that this has been a great trauma to the relatives of the attack and, incidentally, to the relatives of the attacks that have taken place abroad. We must not forget them in this context. When the memorial service was over then, they have been very much left with the traumas and, in some cases, the pocket pains. Some of them wrote a chronicle in 2021, where they said: We have been referred to fend for ourselves and draw on our personal hinterland and even pay for psychological help themselves. They have been sitting with their questions, to which they may not have been able to get an answer. Later, there have been others who have lost their jobs and who have gone down in a purely human way. They've met psychologists who may not have had the right emergency response and trauma response. They have felt the need to be involved in the subsequent process, but it did not really happen. It goes without saying that it could have been different. And I hope we can do that differently in the future. With the support of this proposal, we certainly have the opportunity to create a better way forward. As many have noted here today, terrorist attacks are, after all, a very serious attack on democracy and the rule of law, and they constitute a violation of the fundamental values which our society is built on the dignity, freedom and right to exercise fundamental rights. After all, all victims of crime must see that they receive the right support from the authorities, which is necessary for them to move forward in life. And this is particularly true of victims of terrorism, who are under a great deal of public media attention as a result of the crime they are subjected to, and perhaps particularly need recognition and respectful treatment on the part of society. At any rate, I think that the focus we have had on terrorism in recent years should be given. It's just not always the experience the victims have been left with. The legislation should take more account of the victims of terrorism than it is today, with a stronger set of rights and protect them and their closest both from secondary victimisation and repeated intimidation. In fact, we in the SF have asked a number of questions prior to the creation of the proposal on who is actually considered to be the victims of the terrorist attacks in Copenhagen in 2015, Barcelona in 2017, Morocco in 2018 and Sri Lanka in 2019, and about what contact the authorities have had with the persons concerned so far. And it is clear from the response from the government that you do not actually have an overview of it. And without a clear definition of who is really the victims of terrorism, it is also impossible to provide the right help and support from the authorities. As I said, Denmark is not covered by EU rules in this area. After all, we think it makes very good sense to have a look at the solid set of rights that you have as an EU citizen, but which we have not introduced in Denmark because of the legal reservation. No one will be able to guarantee that Denmark will not again be hit by terror, and if that should happen, we should have a response in place so that we can help the victims better than we have done so far. This also means in my optics, and it is part of the proposal that a thorough evaluation should be carried out subsequently or a subsequent public investigation should a terrorist attack hit Denmark. For the victims need clear answers to what happened during the incident. In those words, I thank you for your support today. There is something that suggests that it could be a unanimous Parliament supporting this. But there are just a few people who are not in the Chamber now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517162818	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517162832	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517162849	Thank you for the floor to the President, and thank you to the authors of the SF. Victims who have been subjected to terrorist acts are often affected by life, and they may never return to their normal daily lives again, and it is natural that we should do what we can to protect and help them on all the fronts where we can. That is why, before we dive into law, I would like to start by saying that we support the resolution by the government. Of course, there must be clarity and certainty that victims of terrorist acts have access to compensation in Denmark, even if the action has taken place abroad. The starting point is that the crime must have occurred in Denmark, that is the starting point before the state grants compensation. In particular cases, however, it is possible for the Compensation Board to pay compensation to victims even if the crime has been committed abroad, and in such cases the Compensation Board shall assess whether it would be reasonable to provide compensation. Terrorist acts are mentioned in the pretexts of the victim compensation law as one of the cases which could fall within this reasonable compensation, and the practice of the mention has indeed been that victims of terrorist acts or their relatives fall within the victim compensation scheme. With the motion for a resolution, the SF requires the government to put forward a proposal to amend the legislation so that in future terrorists and their relatives will have a legal right to compensation if the ordinary conditions for compensation are otherwise fulfilled. With the motion for a resolution, the legal position will be the same for the victims of terrorist acts and their relatives, regardless of whether the terrorist attack has taken place in Denmark or abroad. I am concerned that the victims of terrorist acts are in a very special situation, and we must take care of those victims and their relatives from the authorities, and that is why I would like to help them to be more clear as to whether they can be compensated. Following on from this, it makes sense to change the current regime from a fair compensation to a proper legal requirement, even if the current practice is that victims of terrorist acts are covered by the compensation scheme. However, a change of law requires us to look at the definition of what crimes would be included in the special rule, including whether consideration of acceptance of risk or own guilt could be taken into account if, for example, the victim were involved. illegally entering or staying in a conflict area. We will therefore only be able to table the proposal in the next session of Parliament, which will start in October. It is not quite the same as the proposal says, but I hope that we can end up with a sensible solution in the Committee on Legal Affairs anyway, and that could be done, for example. be a common text of the report. With this initiative, we would be able to help victims of terrorist acts and their relatives move forward in their lives, and although I know that the terrible experiences will probably affect the victims for the rest of their lives, I believe and hope that clarity and opportunities for compensation will hopefully help them one step on the road. That is why we support the idea of a legal requirement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163206	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163211	I think it is good that the government will in principle support this proposal, but I would like to hear how the Minister views the issue of Danish citizenship. Does the Minister see that there must be a requirement that you have Danish citizenship in order to be able to take part in the new system, or does it not matter to the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163237	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163238	We have not made that clear, but I imagine that if it is possible to draw up a joint report text, we in the government will try to come up with proposals for how it could be combined so that we guarantee the same legal position for the victims of terrorist acts in Denmark and abroad. That will probably be our starting point for those discussions, and then the Danish People's Party will also be able to bring their arguments into the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163305	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163308	But does the Minister agree that in relation to these rules it is important whether you are a Danish citizen or not a Danish citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163317-2	I agree that it is important whether you have one or the other nationality, but whether it will also be important in relation to a victim compensation scheme, I am sure that some legal considerations will be raised, among others. in relation to some principles of equality and such. That's why I don't have the guts to answer this from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163334	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. Then it is the rapporteurs. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163348	Thank you for the floor. The motion for a resolution calls for a model for police veterans and their relatives to be given the same conditions as those offered to our defence veterans today. This is the second proposal). Oh, my God, it is! Wait a minute! Yeah, that's what happens when there's a lot of suggestions in one day. Here you go, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg). Thank you, and thank you, for having a very, very weak chair. Come on, but there's more than one proposal today. Thank you. Let's try it again. Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the authors of the SF for making another important proposal. I can start by saying that we support the proposal. Victims of terror have experienced unspeakable traumatic experiences that can change the lives of both their and their relatives. And even though the question of compensation can seem like a minor thing in the big picture of life and death, hopefully the possibility of getting compensation can make a small difference in the subsequent course. And there we do not think there is any reason why the legal situation should not be the same for the victims of terrorist acts and their relatives, whether a terrorist attack has taken place in Denmark or abroad. These victims and their relatives must also be entitled to compensation. So we support this proposal and then we have to see how we can organise the process. Thank you to the SF for the proposal and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163537	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Morten Dahlin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163555	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. In the Left, we believe that terrorism constitutes one of the most serious violations of the absolutely fundamental principles on which our democratic society is based. Terrorism is a threat to the exercise of fundamental human rights of which our people's rule and our social model are on the shoulders. As I also said in the previous resolution, we naturally hope that there will not be Danes who will in future be the victims of terrorist acts, but that is a guarantee that neither we nor any other parties in this Parliament will be able to give. That is why, of course, we also want to ensure that Danish citizens who are injured by terrorist acts, or their relatives, are guaranteed a proper legal right to compensation or compensation from the Danish State, whether the infringement has occurred on Danish soil or during legal residence abroad. The SF writes in the motion for a resolution that the party is convinced that the funding can be made available within the framework already provided for. This is a conviction which we in the Left share and which we think is right, but which, of course, we also have to ask during the committee procedure to ensure that the SF's assumption is correct. So we shall do so in committee. However, we are immediately in favour of the proposal. We look forward to further treatment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163726	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it is the rapporteur for the Radical Left. Mrs. Samira Nawa, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163735	Thank you very much. I could actually re-use much of my rapporteur's speech from the previous reading, but instead I will go straight to the heart of the proposal here. Because in the Radical Left we support the fact that the relatives and victims of an act of terrorism committed abroad are guaranteed a proper legal requirement under the victim compensation law. Although the practice of the Compensation Board has been that victims of terrorist acts and also relatives fall within the victim compensation scheme, hopefully a proper legal requirement can provide a predictability and not least some form of security in such a traumatic situation. Of course, compensation can never heal wounds, but having a clear legal requirement can hopefully ensure that the issue of compensation in itself does not cause unnecessary concern in a very difficult time. In the Radical Left we support the proposal. Technically, it could also be that, as the Minister mentioned in his speech, we land in a joint report. I do not know how this ends, but the starting point is that we support the resolution. Thank you to the SF for putting it forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163855	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur, and then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Britt Baker, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163905	Thank you for that and thank the authors of this motion for a resolution. Terrorism is a threat to our democracy, and that is why we have an obligation as a society to ensure that victims and relatives of a crime receive compensation if they have been subjected to an act of terrorism, even if that act of terrorism has been committed abroad. That is why I can say that the Conservative People's Party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163935	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517163952	We are discussing today B 167 - a motion for a resolution on the right to compensation for victims of an act of terrorism committed abroad. In concrete terms, it is a question of requiring the government to bring forward the necessary legislative proposals so that Danish citizens who may become victims of a terrorist offence committed abroad, or their relatives, are guaranteed a legal claim for compensation under the victim compensation law. As the Minister said, there have been some cases where compensation has been granted, but yet the proposal will address the problem of the victims of tragic terrorist acts abroad, which can be affected by the very serious consequences of what they have been subjected to, never receive compensation from the perpetrators or the state of the country in which the act of terrorism has taken place. And in the event of damage caused by criminal offences committed abroad, there is no question that in all cases, according to Danish law, compensation from the Danish State is granted in exactly the same way. After all, we have seen several examples of this, with which we have also been confronted, at least those of us who are members of the Committee on Legal Affairs. According to the rules in force, these are only persons associated with Denmark, for example. through residence or citizenship which is entitled to compensation for terrorism committed abroad; that is the prerequisite. There it is, then, that the proposers, i.e.: SF, says it is inappropriate that there is a difference in the legal status of terrorist victims depending on whether the act has been committed on Danish soil or has been committed outside Denmark. We in the Danish People's Party basically think that there are sensible tones in this proposal. We basically think it is sensible to help Danish citizens, even if what they have been exposed to has not happened in Denmark, but may have happened somewhere abroad. However, in the course of the discussion in committee and also of the proposal which the Minister mentioned might be the end of it, there is something that we need to be aware of. We think that, if it is to be a legal requirement, it should be reserved for Danish citizens to be able to be compensated by the Danish State. It should, of course, be the State in question in which terrorism is committed, which should provide the victims with the right compensation, and if that is not possible, then it is the Danish state that must do so. But that the Danish state is going to pay and help with compensation for people who are not Danish citizens, we think we are going a little too far. We hope that when the government comes up with the proposal that might be the follow-up to this motion for a resolution, it will make a distinction between Danish citizens and non-Danish citizens. But, as I said, for us, there are positive vibrations about this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517164307	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. And then the New Citizens' rapporteur, Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517164326	This is the second good motion for a resolution from the SF today and we can support it. The previous proposal on the rights of victims of terrorism was a general proposal. Now we are discussing a proposal on Danish citizens... what I read as Danish citizens... who are the victims of terrorist acts abroad, and we support this in New Citizens. If, contrary to expectations, I had read the wording of Danish citizens differently than it was intended, so that they are not Danish citizens, then it will probably be difficult for us to support the proposal. For it must of course be the case that the Danish state takes responsibility for Danish citizens and not for arbitrary citizens staying in arbitrary countries. In those words, however, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517164417	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. And then we are through all the rapporteurs, apart from the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517164432	I would also like to express my thanks for the rapporteur's speeches that have fallen here and in general there is good support for us to ensure that Danish victims of terrorist attacks are better protected than they are today when it comes to compensations. I do not think it should be the case that, because of the terrorist attack in a country where compensation is non-existent, you are then left on the platform, and that is actually what the proposal here represents. And we also believe that it is untenable that this should be done, for example. must be something like the subsequent exposure in the media and on the web, which must be a contributing factor in order that it can actually be done to obtain compensation, as it is today. So we are grateful for the debate and for the positive support. And then I just want to say, in relation to whether it should only be Danish citizens or it should be others, that I personally would be sorry if we land on a model in which, for example, we land on a model. quota refugees, who certainly do not have another state to return to, will not be entitled to compensation. They are in Denmark precisely because they cannot return to their country of origin. If they go to, let us say the United States, which has had a lot of terrorist attacks, and are subjected to something there and they would not be entitled to compensation, I think that would be an unfair legal situation. But we need to see a presentation from the Minister, and then we have to see how many people are hanging on in the end. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517164614	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517164625	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517164656	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Left for the motion for a resolution. Let me start by stating that the government agrees that Danish officers must have both support and recognition if they are injured in the service. After all, it is the police who are taking good care of the rest of us, and that is why we must also take good care of them, and support must be provided that is in line with the great efforts of the police to ensure the security of our community. We therefore fully agree with the intentions behind the motion for a resolution, namely that we should support injured officers and their relatives in the best possible way. It is also already an area on which the government is focusing. One of the first initiatives my predecessor, Nick Hækkerup, took as Minister of Justice was to launch the so-called VIVE study, which is also mentioned in the resolution. According to that study, it appears that the incidence of post-traumatic stress among police officers is slightly higher than that of the normal population. The questionnaire investigation also showed that 11% of the total Union production of the like product was representative of the Union industry. of the police officers have symptoms of either ptsd, depression, anxiety or stress. Therefore, when the findings of the investigation were clear, the government took the initiative to improve efforts for injured officers and for the police in general through the multi-year agreement reached for the police and the prosecutor's economy, agreed by a broad majority of Parliament's parties in 2020. With the agreement, we have sought to make the police more robust by among others. to expand the police force with more officers through significantly more funds allocated in the multi-year agreement. In addition, 1 million has been set aside. kr. each year during the term of the agreement to the association Thin Blue Line, which provides support to injured employees of the Danish police and their relatives and survivors. Finally, the police management, based on the multi-year agreement and the study I mentioned earlier, has decided to launch new initiatives, among other things. may mention a mandatory alert status check for officers, an extension of the framework for supervision of employee groups, so that more are offered support, and increased focus on follow-up actions following violent incidents. So the government has taken the results of the investigation seriously and acted on them. We have done this by dealing with it in the multi-year agreement for the police economy, which a broad majority in the Folketing is behind. In addition, it is worth noting that the new initiatives come on top of the initiatives that already exist. I am thinking in particular of the police psychologist service and the support and advice unit set up by the National Police. The VIVE study of 2020 shows that police officers believe that the established concepts for interventions and support measures are generally appropriate and good. However, there will always be challenges and something that can be better done, what the Police Union and Thin Blue Line also mention in their comments on the resolution. I therefore believe that the last initiative has not been taken politically in this area either. This is among other things. That is why, in the multi-annual agreement for the police, we have agreed to keep track of the area on an ongoing basis during the period of the agreement. I believe that all of us in the Folketing would like to do as much as possible in this area and, incidentally, for the many other civil servants who, in addition to police officers, are injured in the service. When we talk about this issue, however, we cannot ignore the fact that equality with the veterans of defence, as the motion for a resolution calls for, is associated with considerable expenditure. Therefore, regardless of the scope of any new initiatives in this area, funding will have to be found. The Ministry of Defence has reported that expenditure for 677 million has been incurred in 2021. kr. For the defense's veteran efforts. It also covers the compensation for occupational injury paid under the special scheme for veterans of the defence. This does not, of course, mean that it will cost the same in the field of the police, because it will not. It is more to illustrate that there are significant costs involved in implementing this kind of initiative. But we are open to looking at how we can improve the efforts of the police officers. We believe, however, that we must maintain that any changes to the current setup naturally belong in a multi-year agreement for the police, where there is the possibility of finding funding and also the possibility of making a global priority of the initiatives that will be involved in launching new initiatives to improve the conditions of officers who are injured in the service and their relatives. I also think it is crucial that we do not forget other professional groups either. It could, for example. be prison officers or psychiatric staff. In those words, we cannot support the proposal as it stands here, but we look forward to the committee reading and, of course, I look particularly forward as Minister to finding out how the proposal will be dealt with there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165143	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165147	I would like to thank the Minister for his speech and for actually welcoming at least the intention behind the proposal. Unfortunately, there was not really anything in the Minister's speech that made it clear to me why it is that the government is opposed to this proposal. Because the proposal is to require the government to draw up a model for establishing equality between police veterans and veterans from the defence, and that this model should form the basis for subsequent political discussions, as we write in the proposal. The reason why we have done so is precisely that we should not be shot in the shoes, that the proposal is totally unfunded, and have a major financial discussion in this Chamber, but try to gather a broad political support to oblige the government to make such a model which could then lead to political discussions. What exactly is it that the Minister of Justice is so afraid of starting to draw up a model of this kind that will form the basis for concrete political discussions?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165245	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165246	I'm not afraid of anything, but I think it raises more questions. First of all, I think it is natural to take these discussions in the circle of parties responsible for the finances of the police and the prosecution. But what is really the most important thing for me is that I do not think that the right way to go to this task is to draw up a model that equates the police with the defence. I mean, for example. can raise the reasonable question: Well, what about employees in psychiatry, what about employees in prison, what about firefighters, what about all sorts of other groups of public employees who also have a working life that can lead to some pretty violent but? And there I just think that if you only draw up a model that intends to equate the police with the defence, there will be some blind spots.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165349	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165350	First of all, I just have to say nothing about the Folketing. And the thing about using a conciliation circle as such a jam jar, where you say that it is only there that you can discuss how we should treat the cops who are injured either mentally or physically in the service, is a jam jar. Nothing about the Folketing. If we're going to have political discussions, it's in the Folketing. The Minister of Justice can't use the conciliation circle as a jam jar. So that argument is out. Then there is the second argument: well, there are other groups as well. Should I understand from the Minister that the Minister actually wants to make models for other groups too, or does the Minister just use it as an argument to avoid this? And there I come back to the core issue: why is it that we do not just make that model, and then that model can lead to the fundamental political discussions that are important and that we must have here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165434	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165435	I do not think it is possible to call an agreement group that has taken responsibility for the finances of the police and the prosecution for a number of years to come, a jar of jam. After all, it is a political workshop in which political priorities are set. That is why we cannot discuss proposals in a separate way; we must also look at them in a context. So I am dealing with the specific proposal that lies here, which is about the police and defence being treated equally, and then I just raise the small concern that I understand if you sit out there and are employed in Vestre Prison, that you say: what is it in the investigation that makes it not the criminal services employees, but that it is the police employees who need to have better relations here? And that's where I think we just deserve to have a holistic view of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165520	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165523	Thank you. Now, of course, New Citizens is one of the parties behind the agreement on the police economy in the coming years. And I'd say the opposite. I would then say that if someone suddenly came and said that the agreement that we have concluded and financed must suddenly include everything else that is not part of the agreement, then I would think it was very remarkable. So, here we are dealing with a proposal that says: let us look at what is possible for equality. It may also be that there are some points where you can't even one to one, but at least you can move there. And then let us find out: what does it cost, and how can we find the funding? In other words, does the Minister not recognise that this is not part of the agreement? We have dealt with veterans and police veterans in part in the agreement, but that is not part of the agreement, and that is why it is not possible to put something extra in that agreement without all parties being involved. And, on the other hand, we cannot say to a party that is not part of the agreement: we cannot discuss this at all for the next four years, because it has nothing to do with the agreement, but now we are binding everything on one agreement, and then we cannot talk about the police any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165627	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165628	For my sake, you must always talk to the police, but it is part of the agreement to improve the efforts of injured policemen, and we have set aside money for example. Thin Blue Line. So I see it as part of the shell tasks that are on my own table that we need to increase support for the officers who are injured in the service. Whatever the case, however, I think the essential political point remains: why is it that we should equate or equate the police exactly with the veterans of the defence and not other groups of civil servants, for example. I mean, do you have any idea who's in the department of criminal justice who, according to these investigations, is at least as exposed to mental stress as the police are? It's just where I'm a little worried that you take out a single public sector professional group and then discuss it detached from everything else. I understand that we have some special conditions for those who have been sent for Denmark in war zones far away from their families. Actually, I can understand that. But when we start moving here, I think we should insist on discussing things in a context.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165738	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165739	As far as I know, there is nothing in the criminal justice agreement that equates the criminal services with veterans. So this sounds more like you're trying to get away from the real problem that is, for example, that. Thin Blue Line can only provide help to people who are still employed by the police. And that means that many of the cops who lose their jobs fall between the chairs; they end up in a system of social workers whose work, after all, is not entirely aimed at and suitable for the kind of suffering that one has, if one has ptsd after having worked for example. As a policeman.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165823	Well, I put emphasis on the expression, for example. I agree very much with Mrs Pernille Vermund when she says, for example: As a policeman. But you could also say, as an employee of psychiatry in a settlement. Because working there can also be quite brutal. Or as an employee in a closed prison with some types of gang, where it can also be brutal to work. There are many places where it can be brutal to work. And there I can only see that we can quickly get into trouble in this Chamber if we discuss each of the groups in isolation. And that's where I think there's just a need to have a holistic view. I still believe that there are political challenges with regard to police officers, and we need to do more there. We would very much like to do that. But it will have to be discussed in a context, both economically and also in relation to other professional groups. And that's where I feel, for example. a responsibility towards the criminal services staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165905	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no more brief comments, so now it is the rapporteur. And the first one is sir. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517165916	Thank you. The motion for a resolution calls for a model for police veterans and their relatives to be given the same conditions as those offered to our defence veterans today. I would like to start by saying that our Danish police are making a great effort. These are talented, committed people who carry out a demanding and sometimes dangerous job every day, so Denmark can be safe and secure. For this they deserve respect and recognition, and they deserve us to take good care of them. So this is a sympathetic motion for a resolution in which one can hardly disagree with the intention that we will support our officers. The proposal may sound quite reasonable, of course, but in practice it is a very comprehensive proposal which is proposed to be financed within the existing framework of the Ministry of Justice. We have heard the Minister for Justice explain that transferring the current veteran service to the police area would have very major financial consequences and, as you know, we have concluded a multi-year agreement setting out the financial framework for the police and prosecutor's office for 2021-2023 - an agreement which, moreover, contains many good initiatives to strengthen and back the police. That agreement then chose the proposers' party not to be a part of, and then you come up with a proposal which will bring about very major changes in the police economy. Because the point is that if we are to implement this within the framework set out, yes, there is something else that the police cannot do and that the police cannot have. So for that reason we cannot support this proposal as it stands, but we look forward, of course, to discussing it in the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170057	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170100	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has read the proposal. The rapporteur is now saying that if we do this, it will have major economic consequences. What we are proposing is that the Folketing instructs the government to draw up a model to work towards equality. The model shall form the basis for a subsequent political debate among all the parties of the Folketing. In fact, it is quite similar to what the SF had previously proposed in another area, namely to require the government to make a model so that we can subsequently have a political discussion, including about financing how we are doing it here. Has the rapporteur not read the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170143	Yes, I've read the motion. Thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin. I would like to say several things, and the first is that when discussing such a proposal here, which I assume is also intended to implement it, I think that with such a costly change in the whole setup of aid and support for our hard-working police, we should do it in the right places. And the right places, as I said in my speech, are where you take responsibility for the whole of the police economy. After all, some parties do, and the author's party has chosen not to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170218	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170219	I am sorry that the Social Democrats' legal rapporteur chooses to use such an important case to make all sorts of ludicrous attacks on the Left and talk about taking responsibility, and I do not know what. The right place to discuss politics is the Parliamentary Chamber, and we have put forward a proposal to oblige the government to draw up a model for establishing equality between police veterans and defence veterans. That model can then form the basis for some constructive discussions, including on financing it and on how to work towards this goal. I simply cannot understand why the Social Democrats are forced to make these attacks instead of taking the proposal down positively and trying to find a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170259	But these are not attacks and we are discussing politics, but when you make politics, the choices you make come with a price too. The Left has chosen not to be in the agreement where we are also doing something in this area. The Left has not known to me, and so may Mr. Morten Dahlin corrects me if I am That is why I say that I think this is a fine and sympathetic proposal, and I think we should discuss it next time we have to negotiate a multi-annual agreement for the police and prosecution economy. At that time, I hope that the Left will have a greater desire and motivation to take responsibility for justice policy than is the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170338	First, it is Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170340	Thank you. The proposal that we are debating today is, in fact, just a proposal that is about examining and drawing up a model of how to equate, and the only thing that needs to be financed now is to draw up that model. It is not the financing of veterans; it is the financing of the model. Is it not very wise to start such work ahead of the negotiations that will come in three years' time when we are going to negotiate the police economy again? So that we start this work in good time, so that we know what kind of model we want, what it will cost, and what it will mean to have one of these when we are going to negotiate the police economy next time? Wouldn't that be clever?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170427	Thank you for the question. As I said, I am in favour of the intention, but what is also contained in the motion for a resolution I have read is that this should lead to political discussions afterwards. I am just saying that I think that these discussions should be taken in the right place, and the right place here is where we have taken responsibility for other parts of the police, both got more money set aside, so we hire more officers, but also to do something preventive for the police and subsequently, if the damage has been done, and that is when we sit and agree with the prosecution and the police economy, which Mrs Pernille Vermund herself has been involved in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170505	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170507	It makes sense when we talk about the forthcoming agreement, but it is not the case that you can simply put some extra expenditure into the current agreement. If the proposal here, as I understand it, is to draw up a model of how we can equate police veterans with war veterans, and examine what it will cost to draw up the model alone, get some wise officials to look at what is possible to equate, where there might be some drawbacks in comparing one to one, then it is wise to do the work ahead of us sitting down and negotiating next time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170547	In any case, there is no doubt that if you transferred that model one to one, it will be very costly. Without being able to remember precise figures, I think the Minister said six hundred a few and forty million kroner for the defence. So it is clear that if you choose to decide that you want to do this, it will just mean some very, very big changes in our police and what we can do with the money allocated to the police today. I think basically that when we discuss something like this that is and is going to have a very, very large and costly impact on our police, we should do so where we take responsibility for our police economy, namely when we sit and negotiate that agreement. But again: I look forward to the continued discussion in committee and to other good proposals that may come.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170632	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517170649	Thank you for that and thank you to the Left for making the proposal. After all, I think that our police officers should be supported and supported both in the day-to-day performance of their work and, above all, when they are injured in the service. We have just had a visit to the Committee on Legal Affairs by Thin Blue Line and some of the police veterans who have been hard hit by their jobs and who have gone out of service with scars on their souls and, in many cases, pocket pains. We have also heard of their relatives, who have been in an incredibly difficult situation, because how do you help your husband or wife when you feel bad? We should remember that this is not just about the individual cop, but also about his or her family. Therefore, when the police take good care of us in their daily lives, we must also take good care of them and their relatives when they get sick from going to work. If we don't, we'll let them down. According to the 2020 VIVE study, police officers are of the opinion that the efforts and support measures we are running with are appropriate and good, but it also says that debriefings do not always happen and some refrain from telling about their challenges because they fear their jobs. Although we have that evaluation, we are not in the end. There's a need for a sustained focus on this area. The same is true in the field of criminal justice, where we are not in line with the prison officers' working environment either. Among police officials, over 60% are employed. experienced facing situations where their lives have been at risk. The same applies to one third of all prison officers, transport officers and workmen, who are, after all, in prison craftsmen. We can also see it when it comes to the signs on ptsd. I think it was 31⁄2%. by the police officers who show symptoms of it while it is 131⁄2%. by the prison officers. That is why I think that a solution will have to look at the conditions of the prison officers as well. It is true, as the Minister says, that there are also some perspectives in relation to other professional groups. So what kind of help should they have and can expect? However, in any case, I think the proposal is important, and we even put forward in the SF the proposal that actually sent out, that is, soldiers' veterans and police veterans, because we discovered that there was a difference between them. They had both been exposed to the same thing, being sent to Kosovo, for example, where one group was better than the other. This equality was supported by the Danish Parliament. If we cannot support this proposal, it is because this is something that concerns the police economy and where the money is to be found in the police conciliation circle, and it is also the police conciliation circle, I think, which should decide during this period whether new things should be put into effect. Against this background, we will not be supporting the proposal. In fact, we also think that the proposal should have been broader. With those words, I can say that we are in agreement with the intention, but not with the proposal as such.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171012	Thank you for that, and then there is a brief comment. Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171015	Thank you to the SF for the speech and for the support, at least to, I think, the rapporteur said the intention behind the proposal. In fact, the proposal we are putting forward here is very similar to a proposal from the SF which we have dealt with in the Assembly earlier today, in other words, where the government is not required to do a massively expensive thing or take a lot of expensive initiatives, but to examine how to make a model to get to a place where you would think it would be good to get there. That's kind of what's in this. There is no need to introduce it here from tomorrow, because that would entail a considerable financial cost. How much we do not know and what positive and negative consequences we do not know either. That's one of the things the model has to investigate. So could the SF not consider in committee whether one could edit one's position a little bit and say that, since it is only a model version that is being proposed here, is it really a proposal that could be supported? And then we will have to discuss afterwards in political discussions where the money will have to be found, what it will cost, what we can do and what we cannot do. Could the SF not consider it in committee if we were to make even more good arguments on the part of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171122	Well, I'd always like to try to give it a thought. In the previous proposal there was nothing like this in conciliation, but here we have actually taken a position on a number of initiatives which then run for this period, and that means that if we are to set new things in motion, such as, for example, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. A study would have to be carried out within the police conciliation circle, and that was where I might have hoped that the Left would have bitten a little bit by being part of the police conciliation circle, because then perhaps we would have gone a little further than the initiatives that the Minister of Justice read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171204	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171206	I just think the argument is a little bit sought. Because it cannot be the case that because an agreement has been reached on the police economy, which lasts for the next four or five years, nothing else can be discussed at all. Nor will it be the case that there will be no developments that will require the Folketing to decide on matters relating to the police or, for that matter, the criminal services or a number of other areas on which major agreements have of course been made. After all, we have deliberately not put forward a proposal that would cost millions of dollars, because then it would just be shot down. Well, we're asking for an investigation. Can the SF not support us in saying that such a study of a model is therefore very sensible to have done?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171248	Well, I think this is just a matter for the police conciliation circle, and I think that what is the challenge in this proposal is that we have actually taken a position in the police conciliation circle on a number of initiatives to improve the situation of police officers afterwards. That is why it is in any case my view that this is where the police circle will then have to decide whether further initiatives should be taken and, as I remember, the text of the police conciliation exactly says that we can discuss whether there is more work to be done, and that is why this talk in this case falls within the area of police conciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171333	Thank you. After all, if we are to extend the tasks that we have agreed to implement in the next few years and finance them in a conciliation circle, then we must all agree. But that doesn't mean that there isn't any more, as Mr. Morten Dahlin says may be other things in the area where you find out along the way that we want this on top of that, and we want to finance it. Let us assume that there will suddenly be an acute problem in terms of solving some infrastructure and some equipment for defence, as I know very acutely, in addition to that which is settled. Then it cannot be the case that, in a wider circle, we cannot decide on it or, if the majority changes, we cannot say that we are now allocating additional funds to do even more in this area. This does not mean that the original agreement does not last, but that we are adding something that a larger circle may be part of. Does the rapporteur not agree that this can be done?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171433	But in the end, it will be the police conciliation circle that will have to finance this, and it will also be in the conciliation circle that we will be taking these discussions. Because this very area is actually one that we have dealt with in the police conciliation circle. But Mrs Pernille Vermund is part of the police conciliation circle, so Mrs Pernille Vermund and I can bring in this issue, and I am happy to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171457	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171459	So far, so good. Because that really means something in relation to the proposal that the Left is making here. If it were just a party from the conciliation circle that had brought it into the ongoing negotiations we have on how things should be put into effect in the agreement, then SF would look at it more positively. Is that how it's supposed to be understood? Then we're one step closer. I think, if I am to be quite honest, without having to say too much on behalf of the Left, that it is more important for the proposers that this be done than it is done with the Left as the sender.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171536	Well, if we can agree with the other parties in the police conciliation circle, then I think that is something we can move forward with. And I would like to assist Mrs Pernille Vermund in the police conciliation circle in looking at this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171548	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171602	Thank you very much, President. The police take good care of us citizens, and that is why, of course, we must also take good care of our men and women in uniform, especially if they are injured in the service. That is why I am also proud that we are part of the police agreement, for example. $1 million. kr. every year to Thin Blue Line, which does a good job of helping injured cops and their relatives. In addition, there are also a number of other measures in the police agreement. The minister listed a number of them, both preventive and treating in relation to this issue of police veterans and preventing people from being given ptsd as part of being in the service. And is that all right? I don't think so. That is why we in the Radical Left are going to pursue this agenda as well. I have also indicated this to the association Thin Blue Line, which can seriously put concrete faces and stories on what it means to be injured cop and relatives of them. If, in the Radical Left, we cannot support the resolution here, even though the intention is very good, then it is because the authors of the motion for a resolution have formulated in advance the model that is being sought, namely equality between police veterans and veterans from the defence. The model, as I understand it at the Ministry of Justice, can cost somewhere between 600 and 700 million. kr., if you are based on what it costs for veterans from the defense. And it is an economy that needs to be financed. And if what the proposers are proposing is to be found within the framework, it is at the expense of other police interventions. In addition, I am also aware that there are other professional groups that may need similar special measures, and therefore it is not enough to limit it to police veterans. You could also look at prison officers and other professional groups who also have hard work. So the conclusion is that we in the Radical Left are very positive about doing something for the injured in the service and police veterans, as we also believe that we have done as part of the police settlement. And we also want to build on and build on top, but of course that requires funding and that we also take into account that there may be other professional groups that need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171859	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517171901	Thank you to the rapporteur. First of all, I must point out that what the proposal says is that the model must be drawn up within the framework; and not that what may be achieved in the political discussions must be financed within the framework. And that makes a pretty big difference. But I actually hear the radical rapporteur being quite positive about the idea of this, but then saying that there may be some concrete things in relation to the model and full equality and everything else. I have a feeling, and I don't know if that's right... that the Radical Left can sort of sit with the crucial mandates in this matter. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Samira Nawa whether Mrs Samira Nawa might be interested in the fact that during the committee procedure we might have landed a report text which might take account of some of the concerns expressed by the Radical Left here, so that we could actually have a model work carried out, so that we had a qualified basis for a political discussion. Because I am quite convinced that if the Radicals say yes to it, there will actually be a majority in favour of it, and we can actually do something here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172007	In other words, when I take great care that the model is somehow defined in advance, it is because that is how I read the resolution, in other words, that a model of equality between police veterans and veterans from the defence is sought. The model that has to be aligned is probably the same model for police veterans as for defence veterans, and that is why I am sensitive to the economic argument. I am not opposed to the fact that we can work towards a report in committee. This could well be done, but it is quite essential that it is not cost-effective that it is not a police conciliation body which should finance a proposal in an area in which we have actually taken a position and made a priority. It's pretty important to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172111	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172112	However, it is quite correct to read from the rapporteur that what we are proposing is that there should be a model of equality. I can hear that here today that there is no support for, and that is why I am grabbing the straw that says that we could look at some of the concerns of the Radical Left and try to land a report text on it. And I hear that the rapporteur is in favour of this, so I propose that we continue the dialogue in the Committee on Legal Affairs. So just for information: what is in the text of the police agreement is that it is noted that the National Police have set in motion some initiatives, that it will be followed closely and that one million has been set aside. kr. to Thin Blue Line.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172148	Yes, and there are also a number of other preventive initiatives to ensure that being in the service is not so hard that it causes damage and ptsd. I am also counting on preventive measures, because this is, in fact, the most important thing for me, namely that we prevent injured officers. As I said, I am not opposed to going further in committee and looking at whether a report text can be landed, but, as I have said, it is quite crucial that this should not be used as a driving force for expenditure. Having a model could be very good for the police conciliation circle to continue working on this track at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172235	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172237	Thank you. I am glad that the Radical Left agrees with me that we cannot simply take the money that we have an agreement on in the police conciliation circle and then take it to something else. That's kind of what I hear when I hear the minister and also a little bit there SF-- talk about it here. Well, the money that lies there, and that's addressed in our agreement to this area, is money for Thin Blue Line, and there's the support from Thin Blue Line to the police, the opportunity to help police veterans, if you can put it that way, and you can't even say that, but injured cops, and it's only for cops who still have their jobs, have their jobs. After all, the proposal here is to find out how we can make a model in which we help those people who are either sick or have lost their jobs because they lose their ability to work when they get sick from their work. They're the ones who fall between the chairs today. So if the Radical Left agrees that we could perhaps land a report here that does not necessarily spend the money that lies in the agreement, but which perhaps ensures more that when we make new agreements, we know what we are talking about. I'd appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172355	Thank you, then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172356	Yes, well, of course I fully agree with Mrs Pernille Vermund that we cannot simply go back to an agreement we have made and to money that we have distributed and say: hey, friends, not anyway. Or: Now all of a sudden we decide to put a brake on something we have started and then use it somewhere else. And that is exactly what I am concerned about because of the way in which the proposal is formulated here, namely that it is a question of equality, which is precisely so costly that it is a three-digit sum, as I heard in the Minister's speech. But again: it may well be a story in which we look at it wider. I think that I have heard from other rapporteurs here on the platform that the same concerns as have been raised in the motion for a resolution are addressed here, but also that there may be other professional groups who might have similar needs. That is why such a study or model should not be narrow.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172459	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172501	So what costs this proposal is, in fact, just the officials and now I'm just saying, it might sound a little violent to help with the development of the model. It is a piece of analysis in which we find out what problems there are in the police field today. What legislation does this mean that we cannot help the police veterans who are injured in their jobs, lose their jobs and therefore cannot receive support from, for example, the police veterans? Thin Blue Line? So that's what's in the economy of this. And it is of course not much different than if you decide to make a vvm statement or anything else about a new project, which is not something you have agreed in advance, but which is a new project you may want to start sometime in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172548	However, it certainly sounds as if Mrs Pernille Vermund and I, both of whom are members of the police conciliation group, could find common ground to look at whether there are some models that take into account some of the challenges that officers who have been injured in the service are actually experiencing and, for example, those who have been injured in the service. could also apply to prison officers who also live under a psychologically incredibly hard working environment and who in many cases also have either ptsd or ptsd-like symptoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172622	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172632	Thank you. Oh, my God, we have witnessed once a political scam and a trial drill in connection with this proposal. In fact, I do not think it is particularly comfortable in relation to the seriousness of the subject we are debating. I would like to thank the Left for making this very, very good proposal. In the Conservative People's Party, it is something that is very dear to us. Our skilled officers must have the support and recognition they need if they are injured in the service. Our police are making a huge effort, and they are doing so to make us feel safe in everyday life. That is why, of course, we must also give them huge support when they need us. The VIVE study clearly shows that we need to do something. 10,6% the cops have symptoms of either ptsd, depression, anxiety or stress. That's quite a lot. As the Minister and other rapporteurs before me have mentioned, we have already strengthened this effort by means of, among others. The police agreement, but that doesn't change the fact that we Conservatives are positive about making a model. This, of course, requires us to calculate what this proposal will cost and, of course, it also requires us to be able to find funding for it. But it is a good idea to work on a model and have a model ready until we have to negotiate the next police settlement in just a year and a half. For the Conservative People's Party, it is important that this work results in a majority for a final model, and then it is important that it does not mean that the police are cut or have to downgrade other tasks in order to find funding. We would like to see the opportunities for better treatment of our police veterans, which is why we are also in favour of starting work on finding a new model. It is clear that the police are looking after us and that is why we must take care of them as well. So I would like to thank the Left for making this proposal. I hope we can land it in a report, but otherwise I can hear that we are a number of parties ready to take up this discussion in the police circle, since the Left itself cannot do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172901	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. And then it's sir. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517172922	When we send soldiers out into the world to defend Denmark, if they come home alive, they risk getting very serious damage to the soul, and of course they need every help to be able to process. The same should, of course, apply to the country's police officers, who are put in the world to look after all of us; they also need assistance and help. Unfortunately, the conditions we offer the country's officers are not the same as we give the soldiers. The soldiers have finally got better relationships, the veterans have got better relationships. So from this point of view, we think it is reasonable that the Left should raise the debate with this resolution. We basically agree that our officers need better help, and in the Danish People's Party we are also pleased that we managed to get money set aside to enable Thin Blue Line to run some information business and raise various debates that have to do with this; raise debates that can really help push things forward. I think we have already seen this from the debates that Thin Blue Line has had raised on the basis of their work so far. For the officers we have in Denmark, we have to be careful in all possible ways if they get hurt while doing their job, which is to look after us. The same problem we have for the police officers of the country, we really do have for the country's prison officers. I was glad that Mrs Samira Nawa also mentioned them, because some of them have, of course, also been severely scarred by doing their job. I am not immediately aware of the reason why the Left does not have them in this resolution, because they might as well be included when we are looking at those who need our attention. However, we may be able to discuss this during committee work, that is to say, to add the prison officers and how this can be done in practice in the future. For it is absolutely crucial that all those who take care of Denmark, both within and outside the country, receive the necessary help when they are injured or if they suffer damage to the soul. That is the right thing for them, and it is also true for all those who intend to get the same job in the future. They should also know that if they are injured, there is proper help to be obtained. And I also believe that the Minister for Justice mentioned in his opening speech that, fortunately, something has also happened in the police agreement that is in place. Among other things: So money has been set aside for Thin Blue Line. Basically, then, we believe that jobs are being carried out that are about the security of our citizens, and at the same time we must know that society is there to help and pay back and to look after one in those situations where society cannot be looked after because one has been injured.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517173244	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line and the next one is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517173253	Thank you for the floor, sir. President, and thank you to the Left for putting forward this proposal which, of course, has led to one of the debates which means that if you are not bottled up with politics you can sit and get a little discouraged. Because when there is a process in such proposals, in proposals where we would probably be able to agree on something that points in this direction, but which is opposed, because there is a conciliation circle, or because it came from the wrong side of the Assembly, or because you did not put the proposal yourself, you forget that while time goes by while it goes by while you delay others' good proposals in order to put your own name on them, there are people out there who get hurt and do not get the help they need. There are people who have already been injured, who are terribly afraid of losing their jobs, because they know that it will also mean that the support they may get from, for example, those who have been killed. Thin Blue Line can disappear from them. And maybe there are people who say, no, the thing about being a cop, you don't dare anyway, because what if? And do you have to be in the same situation as your father or uncle or any other cop you know who's hurt? These are the conditions when in here there is process and fog talk in the debates. I bet if this had been a company or a board of directors in any place, the willingness to find each other and find solutions to what you agree on would be much greater, and then you realized that you cannot agree on everything, but that there is a common goal, and you work together on that. And I actually think it's one of the things that makes Danes sometimes look at the work that's going on in here and think, 'You must be crazy.' I know it sounds hard, but it's kind of the feeling of discouragement I get when I hear such a debate. We know that the SF has made a similar proposal in the past. We are parties, including from the conciliation circle, which are positive about the proposal. All this is about is drawing up a model for how to ensure that the people who look after us are also taken care of if they are injured, either physically or mentally. And we do so in recognition that they are much more vulnerable than the rest of us. It is so easy when you sit in a protected environment with your raise-down table to say that we have to solve that at another time, in three years' time, and everything else. But quite frankly, in the meantime there are people who are walking around out there looking after us; people who have to fight with criminal types, who are not a majority in this Parliament who are willing to throw out of the country, despite the fact that we actually can, because they are not Danish citizens; people who take care of us when they are exposed to the most humiliating things; people who are filmed and put on the web, sometimes with name mention; people who do their job without getting a huge salary for it and who risk caring for their work with life as an effort. And we are not willing to find a solution here. We're not willing to bow to each other for just the one thing to work out this model. This isn't about hundreds of millions a year; it's about finding out: What are the options to make sure that those who look after us are also watching our backs? I just think it's too thin. Of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517173639	Thank you for that and there are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from the Liberal Alliance, the Free Greens or the KD, so we are giving the floor to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mr. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517173701	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for a debate, sometimes constructive, sometimes unconstructive, on this proposal. Thank you very much, too, to the Conservative People's Party, to the Danish People's Party and to the new citizens for accepting the proposal as positively as has been done. I very much agree with the observations made by Mrs Britt Baker and Mrs Pernille Vermund from the parliamentary platform, namely that today's debate has, unfortunately, been too much about process and bureaucracy and not enough about the substance of the proposal. So I would like to thank Mrs Britt Baker and Mrs Pernille Vermund for the comments which I fully endorse on behalf of the Left. Because what we are faced with is a serious situation in which we know that a great many of those who are employed to look after us are not careful enough when the accident is with them. Several people have already mentioned the VIVE report, which shows that we are facing a serious problem. Ptsd, depression, anxiety, stress, too many of our skilled policemen are exposed to, and the net we have today is not fine masked enough to pick them all up. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution, not to say that we can solve everything tomorrow, but to oblige the government to draw up a model for equality between police veterans and defence veterans, and we have not pulled that out of thin air. It must be honest that in the Left we took notes and we took many notes when the Committee on Legal Affairs had a visit from Thin Blue Line, which just said that there were a number of the rights that veterans from the defense had that they seemed missing from the offer we had to our police veterans, and then there is no need to invent the deep plate when we have a place where we know that there are some measures that are actually good and workable. That is why we proposed that a model be drawn up here. Quite deliberately, we have not proposed that we should be on an equal footing from day one tomorrow. We haven't deliberately written out a big million dollars bill. We have just proposed imposing a model on the government, and that model can then lead to some political discussions where we can discuss which initiatives are good to transfer, which might be useful in transferring and what it costs and where the money should come from. Unfortunately, from several parties here today, particularly from the Social Democratic Party and the SF, the impression has been given that this is something you just have to take in the conciliation circle. Yes, but if there was such a great will from the SF and the Social Democratic Party to actually do so in this group of parties, it would have been done already, but unfortunately it has not been done, and that is why it is necessary to make this proposal. Now that I'm at the Thin Blue Line Association, I would like to take this opportunity to say to the many people who are engaged in Thin Blue Line that you are doing a really great job of helping those who help us. You give a good voice to those who are affected, either mentally or physically, in their work of caring for the rest of us. You do this in everyday life for those people, but you do it also by shouting us up here at Christiansborg and saying that we need to take action in an area that is important and that we take better care of the skilled police officers who are injured, either mentally or physically, in service. I hear an opening from the Radical Left that it is possible for us to come together in committee on a report which takes account of some of the concerns expressed by the Radical Left. I would like to say here from the platform that we want to get to grips with that from the Left. We will go a very long way if it is the case that the Radical Left can be those who tip the majority and thus require the government to actually do something, and that is why I am not 100% discouraged when we stop the first reading here in a moment. I have been raised as an optimist and therefore see a little hope in the dark, a hope called Mrs Samira Nawa, which hopefully can help to obtain the majority that makes us move towards a qualified discussion of what is actually needed to give our police veterans better help than the one we are giving today. The minister didn't say it cost 600 million. kr. To do this. The Minister said that this is what it costs overall in the field of defence, but we do not know what it would cost in the field of police, and that knowledge and insight could make sense to get ahead of the political discussions that I hope can come later. So thank you for the discussion. Thanks to the Conservatives, the Danish People's Party and New Citizens for their wholehearted support, and thanks to the Radicals for being so, not great but small light in the dark, that I do not go completely discouraged from the platform, but actually have an expectation and hope that it will be possible to land a report in committee, so that we will at least get one step further to give better help to those who help and protect us others every day. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517174248	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517174305	I have to ask, for the sake of good order, if anyone wishes to speak, and I can see that there is. In the first place, the Minister did not wish to speak, so we are going to start with the rapporteur for those who wish to speak, and the first is Mr Beazley. Bjørn Brandenborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517174336	Thank you for that, President. I took my chance and came up here because I have been given the great honour, on behalf of my colleagues, to stand here today. I shall be brief and just emphasise that the Ombudsman institution is an important institution in our democracy, both for us as citizens and for us as politicians here in the Folketing. After all, the Ombudsman publishes his report once a year and gives an overview of what the institution has done in the past year. We appreciate the reports we receive from the Ombudsman, and I must say on behalf of all the parties in the Committee on Legal Affairs that we also take note of this report. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517174419	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I understand that it was on behalf of everyone in the committee. No one else has indicated to speak, so the debate is closed. That is why the proposal goes straight to the second and final reading. Then we are actually ready for the next item on the agenda, but due to the speed with which the previous item has been dealt with, there are probably some who are en route and entering the Chamber, so I will read my introduction here slowly, and it will probably end up with the Minister coming into the Chamber, and then we will get everything sorted out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517174435	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 19 May 2022. We start with a explanatory statement, and for that I give the floor to the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517174541	Thank you very much. Yes, we are just over from the Minister, where we are negotiating health reform. This is one of the things I would like to contribute to, namely to make it safer for the citizens who are out there in Danish society, and in this proposal it is about a licensing system for acupuncturers. Today there is no legal requirement for who can perform acupuncture, and there is therefore a great difference between how much or how little training and thus knowledge of acupuncture is available to individual practitioners. We need to ensure that the practitioners have the right competences, which is why it is also important that there is the right level of education and that day-to-day work is monitored. These may have occurred due to some very powerful treatments, which unfortunately some did not have so good offshoot. It was a first step on the way to improving patient safety in this area, i.e. to make these demands on the competence of the practitioners. However, if we are to ensure the safety of patients when they receive acupuncture treatment and that it is done properly in the future, we believe that it is necessary to do so with the approval of acupuncturers. It is our cooperation group of non-attached Members who have asked the question and I hope that we can have a good debate and find a solution to the challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517174728	Thank you. Then we will just give the rapporteurs the opportunity to get to the front row before we move on. We need to make sure everyone gets checked in. Thank you for that, and then we are ready to go further, and of course we have the explanatory statement, and now it is the Minister of Health for an answer. So we give the floor to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517175150	Thank you. The reason for the question is therefore, as we have just heard, a desire for greater patient safety in acupuncture treatment. Patient safety is an area which I know is of great concern to all of us, so it also means that the intention behind the question of patient safety is something that the government fully shares. However, the fact that we will not be able to support it as such is also due to the fact that we need clear medical evidence and the need for an authorisation system. After all, an authorisation system is a restriction on free and equal access to professional activities, and authorisation systems should therefore be based on a real patient safety need in areas where there are challenges with patient safety and where an authorisation system is precisely intended to improve patient safety. And if you ask our health care profession and that is what has been done then the case is that the health professional assessment in relation to acupuncturers is that there are no patient safety challenges that health professionals can justify the introduction of a scheme. In assessing the need for new authorisation schemes, the Patient Safety Board has a clear practice of balancing patient safety considerations on the one hand and the need for free and equal access to professional activities on the other. Firstly, in the view of the Management Board, attention should be paid to whether the group has publicly regulated training to work in the health care sector, and this is not the case for acupuncturers, because today there is no publicly regulated training in acupuncturers. At present there are only private schools with courses of varying length and content, and acupuncturers therefore have a very different educational background in practice, and this also means that there is no generally accepted professional standard for what is good acupuncture. Secondly, attention should be paid to the fact that the professional activity involves autonomy and patient contact, and it must be said that acupuncturers are very much involved. Thirdly, attention should be paid to whether the persons carrying out the professional activity pose a significant risk to patients when exercising the activity and, despite the fact that acupuncturers have independent patient contact, it is the Board of Patient Safety's professional assessment that there are no patient safety problems associated with acupuncture. Nor is the Board aware of the inappropriate professional behaviour of acupuncturers who can argue that they should be subject to supervision and that they could therefore be countered by supervision measures. Then it is also important to note that the chest is the area of the body that, according to the Patient Safety Management Board, it may be risky to treat with acupuncture because there may be a risk of damage to the lungs here. In fact, we have seen some terrible cases in the past, which is why, back in 2019, the law introduced requirements that the person performing acupuncture on the chest should have completed a course in preventing, recognising and handling damage to the lungs. Finally, fourthly, attention should be paid to whether there is a need to indicate to the public, patients, health care, etc. that this group of practitioners fulfils the educational conditions for using a specific title, and because of the lack of professional consensus on generally accepted professional standards within the profession, and because there are no major patient safety hazards in the use of acupuncture, there is therefore no need for it here, according to the Patient Safety Board, as far as acupuncturers are concerned. I would also like to make a few other comments on the explanatory statement and the assumptions contained in the question. Indeed, it appears that approval of acupuncturers can help to strengthen patients' safety and that an authorisation will make it possible for patients and I quote patients at all times to approach an approved acupuncturer safely. Quote out. One almost gets the impression that it is uncertain for patients today to take advantage of acupuncture, and that it would therefore almost be irresponsible not to introduce an authorisation system, and that is where I think it is important that we should make it clear in this debate that establishing additional authorisation systems does not in itself provide an increase in patient safety nor an increase in safety. The safety of patients, on the other hand, depends on the educational backgrounds and competences of the approved groups, and that is not something that comes with an authorisation system. It is also important to stress how important it is that authorisation systems continue to be an essential element in ensuring confidence in health professionals and their competences, training and professional competence, and, as a result, if we start to authorise some groups, even if there is no patient safety need, this may ultimately mean that credibility and confidence in the authorisation system itself are weakened, and this may give rise to unjustified expectations of the professional and competence of the authorised group. I would also like to stress that there is already a framework for patient safety and alternative solutions for an authorisation that acupuncturers will be able to use. This is true, for example. the so-called RAB system, the industry-managed registration system. The purpose of the RAB is precisely to strengthen the safety of alternative treatment, and when the patient chooses a RAB dealer, he can be sure that the practitioner meets a number of requirements, among others. education, ethics and good clinical practice. At the same time, the patient has access to a complaint against a RAB processor from the association that has registered the practitioner. In addition, all alternative healthcare providers are subject to the law on the marketing of healthcare, which means that the marketing of healthcare by an alternative healthcare provider must be based on professional and relevant information and that the information must not be deficient, inappropriate, incorrect or misleading and that the alternative treatment provider concerned must be able to demonstrate the correctness of factual information. If the marketing is contrary to the rules, the Patient Safety Agency may require that the placing on the market be discontinued or corrected, and a breach of those rules may in fact result in a fine. So, to sum up, the professional assessment is that all things considered, there is no need for an authorisation system and title protection for acupuncturers, and that is why I do not think it is appropriate to continue with the proposal in this form either. That is why we cannot support the proposal either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517175916	Thank you. One brief remark is now available for each of the rapporteurs, and the first to sign up is Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517175923	Thank you very much and thank you for your reply. I am not surprised, of course, but I am a little surprised that it is said that there is no reason to do so for the sake of patient safety, while at the same time saying in the next sentence that it has now been changed, because some patients were actually experiencing some terrible experiences where the lungs punctured. Isn't that a bit contradictory? At the same time, we know from when we have discussed that health professionals such as social and health assistants, social and health workers and nurses should be allowed to do skin penetration and take the capillaries they take when measuring blood sugar or something else, that it should then be delegated by a doctor. Isn't there something contradictory in saying: You can take a weekend course on needle treatment, and then you can actually just be allowed to run away, because we don't think there's any uncertainty here; we've removed it, so it doesn't matter if you have 5 years of education or you have a weekend course?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517180021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517180023	Yes, but when we went in and promised exactly about needle acupuncture on the chest and it was a law that was passed back in 2019 then it was because there was a need for it. There was a professional need for it, and thus these courses were also set up. It is the Board of Patient Safety that is responsible for these tasks. What I have been informed is that the first courses were carried out in August last year. A total of 40 courses were held last year and this led to 400 registrations. We can then see this year, if we take stock, that the need for training has been considerably less. Less than 10 courses have been completed and approx. 100 new registrations this year. The medical assessment that has been made is that this course will make it safe to do needle acupuncture on the chest as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517180125	It's sir. Stinus Lindgreen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517180129	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. The Minister mentions, among other things: the existing RAB system, which is a form of guarantee for users of acupuncture in this case. Does the Minister believe that the RAB scheme gives a stamp that the treatment received is safe and effective, or can the Minister attach a few words to how the Minister views the RAB scheme as it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517180151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517180152	It is very, very important that we neither here in the Folketing nor in our communication, nor in the communication of the various alternative practitioners to patients, say that the RAB scheme in any way constitutes an authorisation or a stamp of authority, because that is not the case. I support the current RAB scheme, which has been amended on a number of occasions. That's how we know it in all sorts of industries... that there can be stumbled vessels everywhere, and there's a big, big desire in the various industries to clean it up. This is one of the things that we are allowing for with the RAB, so I support it, but it is also important that we do not overcommunicate and not exaggerate what we can use it for. So thank you for that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517180243	Thank you. No one else has signed into this round, so we thank the Minister. Then we are ready to start the debate, and this is done in accordance with the ordinary rules. We give the floor to the rapporteur of the questions, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517180304	Thank you very much and thank you for your reply. As I said, I am not surprised, nor am I surprised, that most of the other rapporteurs think the same thing, i.e. that authorisation does not matter; we do not need that, and what people themselves do, we should not legislate. Nor is it because we need to legislate so much, but what is important is that we have a group of people who have actually shown and documented the evidence over the last few years, Mr. Stinus Lindgreen that acupuncture can relieve and help in a number of different areas. Therefore, it is also popular as a treatment if you suffer from a disease or have a diagnosis or whatever you have. That is why we believe that it is important, first of all, that an authorisation can give the people who take this education, the professional evidence, in relation to knowing they have it, but also if something happens. That was when somebody got their lungs punctured, and then you went in and solved the separate problem. If you had been authorized at that time, it might have been quicker to make sure that not so many people had suffered a puncture of the lung. The Minister says that there is no danger, and that means that we can sit and roll our thumbs until something happens someday, and then you're on it. There is no supervision and there is nothing to report accidental incidents and what else may be. So I think it has been tried to say that we should not interfere with that. This is something the acupuncturers have actually wanted for years, and that is why we are taking it up, because we also believe that it is the security of the citizens that we know who has taken an education. That's where security comes in. The minister thought there was no security in it. Of course, some people still go upstairs and take an acupuncturer or another health care professional who doesn't have a license, but then, I have to say, they are on their own. That was one of the reasons why we actually had a registration on tattooists, and this is one of the reasons why other health professionals have also been authorised. At the same time, it also does something for the pride of the profession in which you work that you can actually show that you have this education. So I think it's important. As I also said in my question to the Minister, at one point we discussed it with another minister, but it is of course the same officials and the same Health Service who are behind it that there are others other than doctors who should be able to do a capillary test, i.e.. a small stick in your finger to measure your blood sugar or other values. This would not be passed on to others because it was a penetration of the skin and therefore there was a risk in relation to doing so. So I think it's kind of a double standard; you want one on one side and the other on the other. The question is whether it is because one does not appreciate or recognize that acupuncture actually has an effect on anyone. Denmark was one of the foot-to-foot countries that has taken a long time to recognise that there may be other methods, while elsewhere it has been used for many years for anesthetic of birthing. We have also made a lot of experiments where there has been evidence on it. I think this is the area that has been studied most. There are now also general practitioners taking an education. They then have a different background, precisely because they have trained as a general practitioner and have all the physiological and so on. So the fact that you can't do an education is what you can do with the Danish acupuncturers. We did it with the osteopaths. It was also a matter that I raised, where they said: where have we got the training? There you could find out, but there was another minister who was also a different color on the minister. So whether it's blue or red that decides whether to authorise, we have to see when the dear colleagues come up and tell us what they think we should do in this. But I have promised the Minister in the past that I will fight for the health care professionals we have in Denmark to have an authorisation. We must ensure patient safety, we must ensure that there is security when we receive treatment, we must ensure that the GDPR is respected, that accidental incidents are reported and that we can complain about the situation. That's why this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517180804	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517180809	Thank you. And thank you for your speech and for raising the subject. Now Mrs Liselott Blixt mentions that there are risks of serious incidents in the past, and that is what we tried to address in the previous law, which the Minister also mentioned. As with all treatment, there will be risks on the one hand, and then there will be the beneficial effect on the other, and that is probably the balance that, whether we talk about general medical treatment or acupuncture like this, always has to be made, i.e. whether the risk of something negative is worth it in terms of what one can get out of it. The rapporteur mentions that a great deal of research has been done in this area, and I agree with the rapporteur in his report that there is a great deal of research on acupuncture, and various experiments have been carried out, including in the Danish context. Does the rapporteur think that there is clear evidence that the beneficial effect of acupuncture is so clear that the risk of serious side effects or just mild side effects is worth it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517180900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517180902	I think that no matter where you go in the Danish healthcare system, you can have side effects or effects. We've seen that. When it comes to the vaccine, there are some who have received late follow-ups from the vaccine, while others have received it from disease, and that is how it will be, no matter where you go. You may have a practicing doctor who makes a mistake, and so it will also be with acupuncture. That is also why I just want to ensure the citizens as well as possible by saying: here we have someone who has taken a training course of several thousand hours, so here you can at least feel a little more comfortable than someone who has taken a weekend course in sticking needles.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517180942	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517180942-2	I fully agree that any treatment that works also poses a risk of side effects, we know that. It is whether you are taking an aspirin or if you are receiving chemotherapy. We know that. So the question is whether the positive effect of it is worth it. There we know what the positive effect of taking an aspirin is, and we know what the positive effect of having chemotherapy is, and then you make a balance. That's what health professionals do. So the question is not whether there is a risk of acupuncture, because it is there, but whether the positive effect is so well documented that the risk is worth taking. That is what I am asking the rapporteur, and not about all sorts of other treatments, because I fully agree with the rapporteur that there are risks to them too, but we just know that, and that is where we know the proven benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181022	There's a lot of evidence. I have not tried acupuncture myself, so I cannot say whether one outweighs the other. I've also been trying to take a lot of medication that didn't work either. So where I'm going is that we have a great crowd of acupuncturers in Denmark, and we have a lot of people who use acupuncturers because they can see that it helps them. And then we can discuss whether it's placebo effect, or whether it's one, the other or the third, but that doesn't matter what's important is that people are being helped, and that's why I think it's important that you have a license and that people know that this person has taken this education on this number of hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181058	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181102	Thank you. I am basically concerned that we can guarantee as much as possible when it comes to health care. But there are many different courses for acupuncturers. Does the rapporteur have any idea how many different training courses are actually available for acupuncture? And how will we ever be able to control the quality and also the educational skills of the staff who had to undergo such training? Who should take responsibility for this when it is no longer a publicly regulated education?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181146-2	Well, it's for sure that you have to go in there and look at what you're asking for. We can look at what the WHO demands, how many hours of education and what level of education there should be. What do you do in other countries? How to ensure what training should be like? And you can do that with the organizations that are there. That's the way you do it. We also know that you do not have the same requirement for doctors because they have a long education, so there is some merit, you might say they have instruction in the body and everything else that should be of teaching. So, of course, you can figure it out. But today you can take a course somewhere in the East... you take place 1 week or 14 days, and then you've learned how to stick needles in, and then you come home and say, "I'm an acupuncturist."
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181229	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181230	That is precisely my point, and I wonder whether we have any professional communities that would be able to make such demands on training and, above all, to check that these requirements were actually met. In other words, that is what we can do with our professional bachelor's degree programmes or our vocational training programmes, which are, like, publicly sanctioned, in relation to what can be expected and what quality we get from the training courses afterwards. So would it not have made a difference if it were the case that one had a publicly recognized education when one wanted to have approval for acupuncturist?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181309	The two large associations that I have talked to, where most are, have their bid on how to make it, so I don't think... I forgot to read out the proposal for adoption. Can I read it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181322	It can just be reached within the response time you have, I see.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181325	That's good. It is a proposal for adoption on behalf of Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, DF, Liselott Blixt, UFG, Karina Adsbøl, UFG, Lise Bech, UFG, Bent Bøgsted, UFG, Marie Krarup, UFG, and Hans Kristian Skibby, UFG. Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament gives high priority to patient safety and therefore requires the government to initiate a process for the authorisation of acupuncturers so that the many users of acupuncture in Denmark can know and be confident that their care provider has received adequate training, that they are supervised and that patient compensation can be complained and obtained in the event of maltreatment. Today, users have only limited opportunity to make sure that their acupuncturer is sufficiently professionally competent. In order to set up an authorisation system, the duration and quality of the training must necessarily be required, which in itself will benefit patient safety. In addition, acupuncturists will obtain a title protection which serves as a quality mark of their professionalism. • V 81). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181422	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. The read-out proposal for adoption will now be included in the negotiations. We move on to the Social Democrats' rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Rasmus Horn Langhoff. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181437	It is clear that when you work with patients as a healthcare professional, we need to make clear demands on what that person should be able and know, and we need to make sure that the person complies with the rules. It may be a doctor or dentist operating, or a chiropractor or physiotherapist working with body and muscles. Here, lack of knowledge about what you work with can have major consequences for the patient. This is precisely why the Board for Patient Safety authorizes a number of health professionals. It has been estimated that there is a need for both regulation of the educational background and continuous supervision of the activity being carried out. But that need is not present when we speak acupuncture. It is not such a risk to patient safety that it can justify such a scheme. In one area there are considered health risks, namely when we talk about acupuncture on the chest. Therefore, back in 2019 a requirement was introduced that all non-doctoral and chiropractors performing acupuncture on the chest should have completed a course in preventing, recognising and handling damage to the lungs. As regards acupuncture on other parts of the body, the medical assessment is that there are no challenges with patient safety. Against this background, I have the following proposals for adoption, which are therefore on behalf of the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Socialist People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. Can I read it? That fg. President Yes, go ahead). Good. Proposals for adoption In the view of the Danish Parliament, the Danish Parliament should take account of patient safety. In this connection, the Folketing has noted that there is no medical basis for such an authorization system for acupuncturers, among others. because there is no publicly regulated education and there appear to be no patient safety challenges for the group. The Danish Parliament has also noted that, in the case of acupuncture on the chest, which may involve health risks, a system of patient safety has already been introduced. Finally, the Folketing considers that, in view of the limitation of such a system to equal access to professional activities, authorisation schemes should be introduced only where the scheme serves a clear objective of improving patient safety. On the basis of these considerations, the Folketing considers that there are no grounds for introducing an approval system for acupuncturers. The Danish Parliament is also asking the Minister for Health to send the committee a statement on employee groups in the health services which do not have a licence. • V 82).
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181708	Thank you. This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further negotiations. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Left. It's sir. Martin Geertsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517181722	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt and the other non-attached Members who have raised this question debate on the licensing of acupuncturers. And I understand that the Minister was also referring to the fact that the Board for Patient Safety has a number of criteria which it believes should be emphasised when considering health care authorisation in general terms. The first is whether the profession has a publicly regulated training to work in the health care sector. And what I know very well is not, therefore, a publicly regulated education in acupuncture. And I have actually studied the area a bit and can see that there is a very big difference between both how long the training takes and how many lessons you have to go through, and that sort of thing. And as I see it, it can almost take everything from 0 to 3 years, and it doesn't seem quite like there's such a common industry standard for how long and what level the training needs to be in order to become acupuncturer. Therefore, the first criterion does not seem to be fully met, as there is no genuinely public regulated education. The second criterion is whether the proposal involves independent patient contact. And it goes without saying that in order to perform acupuncture you must have patient contact. The third criterion is very much linked to the second criterion, namely whether the acupuncturer in the exercise of acupuncture may pose a significant risk to patients. Here, as others have also said, the greatest risk of critical damage has so far been in relation to the breast area. And here, back in 2019, we passed a law requiring a course to prevent, recognise and manage damage to the lungs if you perform acupuncture in the breast area. That is why there is at least a demand for what it is that we have to implement in order to make acupuncture in the area where there is a significant risk to patients. So, in terms of guaranteeing patient safety precisely where there is a risk of a significant risk to patients, initiatives have been taken in this direction. But that does not change the fact that one could follow up a little on how that piece of legislation is actually practiced. In any case, the third criterion is hardly met either. The fourth criterion is that there is a need to indicate to the public, patients, health care or others whether this group, i.e. acupuncturers, fulfils the educational conditions for using a specific title. And here we are really going back to the first criterion: is there a publicly regulated education in relation to acupuncture? And there are quite different lengths of training, so it is also difficult to determine immediately which types of acupuncturers should then have the right to use the title. That is why the fourth criterion is a little tighter. This does not change the fact that we would like to delve further into the issue of authorisation, including for acupuncturers. That is why we will have to put forward a proposal for adoption in just two seconds, asking the government to call for discussions on the licensing area in general. These are discussions which should be based on the fact that, on the one hand, we must, of course, ensure patient safety and, on the other hand, also ensure that there is free and equal access to the individual profession. So, on behalf of the Left and the Conservative People's Party, I would like to read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to draw up a statement which includes, among other things, the following: a list of professions in the field of health, which are currently not authorised, and on this basis invites the political parties to discuss the possibility of extending the number of health certification professions. Discussions should be based on the need to ensure, on the one hand, the safety of patients and, on the other hand, free and equal access to the profession in question. V 83).
ParlaMint-DK_20220517182122	Thank you. This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further negotiations. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we can move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517182128	Thank you so much. And thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for calling this debate. I think it is an important issue to talk about the quality of the education that people employed in health care have, including training for acupuncturists. I myself believe that professional groups working in the field of human health should be authorised as a starting point. A licence is both a quality stamp and it is also a title protection; but it is also both and has two different functions. I think it is important that health education is publicly regulated and defined, and I recognise that a great many people use acupuncture; but it is also there are authorised health professionals who use acupuncture. In fact, the author of the motion for a resolution said that both doctors and nurses and other authorized health professionals often use acupuncture in their treatments and work, but they are also authorized, and this also follows the quality mark in working with acupuncture. The training to acupuncturer is offered many from different places; it is from short courses abroad to long-term courses here in the country. They are offered by various institutions and companies. It is essential for SF that a public quality mark, which is also a certification, is based on publicly defined quality requirements and that there is scope for follow-up and control. This must be a prerequisite for guaranteeing patients the safety of patients, as is the case with quality stamps with a licence. Personally, I believe that all public groups working in the field of health should be authorised. I think that is such a good point of view. Work on people is important, and therefore it is also important that we stamp out the quality of education in which people are involved in caring for, caring for and treating citizens. Yes, and with that I would just like to say that the SF supports the text of the adoption which was read out by the Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517182416	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Stinus Lindgreen
ParlaMint-DK_20220517182424	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor. The Minister for Health has already explained that the authorisation of health professionals involves a number of different elements. Consideration should be given to whether there is a publicly regulated training of practitioners, whether there is contact with patients, whether there is a significant risk to patients and whether there is a need to indicate to the population, patients, healthcare professionals, etc. that the practitioners have training that justifies the authorisation and use of a specific title. It is obvious that there is patient contact when we talk about acupuncturers; it is difficult to put needles in people without having a relatively close contact with the patient. And in acupuncture there are also individual risks, but nothing that, according to the Patient Safety Board, poses a significant risk to patients. If we assume that the needles are being treated properly, and fortunately everything suggests that they do, then the risk of infection is very small. It is clear that when you poke a hole in the skin, there will be some risk, but it does not seem to be something that we need to worry about. And the serious incidents that have occurred with acupuncture in the chest, which, unfortunately, both in Denmark and in other countries have led to death, have made it possible to tighten up the legislation back in 2019 to try to address the specific risk. Of course, as with all other treatments that we offer, the risk of treatment must be measured against the beneficial effect, and here a large number of studies of acupuncture have indeed been carried out, but I will probably read the results slightly differently than Mrs Liselott Blixt does, and I have even tried acupuncture myself a few years ago. The bigger a studio is, and the better controlled it is designed, the less effect you see of acupuncture. And that's interesting because you would normally expect the reverse if it was a real specific effect of a treatment. After all, an authorisation must ensure confidence in our health services by stressing that the authorised health professionals have an education and a degree of professional competence. There is no recognised education in acupuncture, but rather a host of different courses of different lengths, with different content, with different explanations of how acupuncture is said to work and with different ideas about what conditions it can remedy. As there is no consensus around the area and as there is no clear evidence of specific beneficial effects of a significant degree, we cannot support the authorisation of acupuncturers. And we agree with the text adopted by the Social Democrat rapporteur earlier. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517182647	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Hello from the Enhedslisten, and it's done. That is why we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr Conservative Group. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517182715	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for bringing this question to a debate. Of course, we are of the clear conviction that we must ensure that patient safety is paramount. But this proposal raises a number of questions, because it can be said that freedom of nutrition is also important. We believe that it must be a matter of health assessment whether or not to have an authorisation. If we can increase patient safety through the proposal, then we would like to do so, but it also requires us to be informed of the full consequences of what changes an acupuncturist authorisation system will have. As Mr. Martin Geertsen read out, and then we take the view that we are asking the government to call for negotiations on the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517182816	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517182825	Thank you, sir. President. Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for bringing this discussion up today. This is certainly a relevant issue. The central issue, as all the rapporteurs say, must of course be the safety of patients, so that we have the assurance that when you go to a healthcare professional who is experienced as part of the health system, you can count on him to be trained to know what he is doing. In relation to acupuncture, rules have been laid down for acupuncture on the chest, which was adopted here in the House a few years ago on the basis of some unfortunate cases of punctured lungs in connection with treatment. Rules were adopted on the need for a course in order to perform acupuncture on the chest. It is, of course, a good thing that this safety was created, but since acupuncture is thus involved and actually used in health care in different ways, it naturally creates an expectation among citizens and patients that acupuncturers are part of the authorised health care system. Therefore, in the view of the Danish People's Party, it would be logical for an acupuncturer not only to have a more or less random course in relation to a component of his work, but also to have a real authorisation in the same way as a large number of the other health professionals that you meet around the health service. Then we will also be able to ensure that, as a patient, we can be sure that the authorised person has the knowledge in the area needed to carry out the work in a health and safety manner. It will then be discussed that acupuncturers today can have education from just a few hours, I hear almost, and to years of education. I think that, in my view, underlines the need to do this. There is a need to sit down and find out what would be reasonable to make of the demands of those who act in a way that people believe they are part of health care. That is why I do not understand why it is rejected in such a quadratic way. On the contrary, I think that we should accept it and continue to work on it. That is certainly why we support the text for adoption which Mrs Liselott Blixt read out earlier. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517183022	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I don't see anyone from New Civil, LA, Free Green or KD. Then we can give the floor to the Minister for Health, but he is free to do so. And then we can go ahead and ask the questioner, Liselott Blixt, if she wants to pick up and round off. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517183058	I just wanted to say thank you from the debate. I think it's nice sometimes that we come up here and show the disagreement there is. Then people know what the difference is. They say that we are all too much alike, and we certainly do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517183115	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate on this point has ended. We have already mentioned when the vote will take place, and that concludes this item. Then we can move on to the next question. You can keep your seats there, because it is also for the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517183139	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 19 May. We must first have a explanatory statement, and here we are giving the floor to the rapporteur of the questioners, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517183202	Thank you. During the covid-19 I received a request from a young, fear-stricken woman, who unfortunately had felt really, really bad. She felt bad because her consultations with her psychomotor therapist had been cancelled because the therapist did not have a license. This brought me to the attention of this group of health professionals who, like many others, are lacking an authorisation. Fortunately, it is not every day that all treatments are cancelled. I don't know if we've tried it before, but we tried it at least during the covid-19, where they said that people who weren't authorized should keep closed, regardless of how they actually did the same thing as some of those who were authorized. At that time I promised the Minister that I would take all the subjects that were not authorised and make a proposal that they could get a licence. Hopefully it will not happen again that we will get there, that some professions will be closed down because of a pandemic or because of something else. The reason this has been taken up is precisely because it means a lot to the health professionals and to the people who use these health services. An authorisation is evidence of the right to work as an authorised healthcare professional and of their ability to use a specific title. We also know that a licence has been issued on the basis of a course of training completed and that this means that you will be covered by the licensing law. A psychomotor therapist is the only one with a bachelor degree who does not have a license in today's Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517183408	Thank you. Then we can give the floor to the Minister for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517183417	Thank you. Now we have the answer as to why we have similar questions on various subjects, namely that it is a promise from Mrs Liselott Blixt. It's good to see that she's a woman who keeps her word. We already knew that. So this is about the same issue as before, namely the authorisation system that we have just negotiated with regard to the proposal to introduce an approval for acupuncturers. So now it's the psychomotor therapists it's all about. As the problem is about the same and is therefore well known, I will try to make it a little shorter than last but of course still ensure thorough treatment. So we have these professional reasons and principles which were discussed during the last question debate. The first was on the question of education. Last time, one of the challenges was that there was no public health education. We do not have that challenge here. It is true what Mrs Liselott Blixt says. So here we have such an education. It is publicly regulated, etc., so that you can work in the health sector. It is a professional Bachelor's degree programme, and it is thus regulated in an Order from the Board of Higher Education. It was one principle, but there are two other principles. In addition, it is also relevant to consider whether the professional activity involves autonomy and patient contact. There's a green light here too, I'd say, because it has psychomotor therapists. Then there is the third principle that we have to assess here, and it is whether the professional activity may pose a risk to patient safety, i.e. whether, in the course of their activities, the persons may present a significant risk to patients. The psychomotor therapists have patient contact, but it is not the Patient Safety Authority's experience that there are patient safety problems associated with psychomotor therapy. Therefore, the board reports that they do not know of inappropriate professional behavior by psychomotor therapists who make them subject to supervision. Finally, the Patient Safety Agency does not consider that there is a need to indicate to the public, patients, health care, etc. that this group of people meets the educational conditions for using a specific title precisely because there is no major patient safety hazard in the use of psychomotor therapy. It is therefore also important to stress that what is called manipulation treatment of the spine is in fact related to psychomotor therapists' activities. In fact, it is reserved for chiropractors, doctors, osteopaths and physiotherapists because that treatment can be associated with a significant risk to the patient. This also means that others, including the psychomotor therapists, must not perform exactly the treatment of the spine. But manipulation of the body, for example. peripheral joints and joint mobilisation are not restricted to authorised healthcare professionals. This is because, in the opinion of the health authorities, those treatments do not pose any risks which make it necessary for the treatment to be subject to certain authorisation groups. So these are treatments that psychomotor therapists are allowed to perform. The rest of the arguments are completely familiar, so I don't think I'm gonna tire the Danish Parliament of going through them again. But thank you for asking the question here. I think it is useful to assess the situation here on a regular basis, and I think that in this area too there are still important arguments against the appropriateness of further work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517183837	Thank you. There is now an opportunity for one brief remark from each of the rapporteurs, and the first is Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517183842	Thank you for the Minister's reply. It was a know more positively, but only a know. Because this is a profession that works closely with nurses, doctors and other authorized health professionals. So I wonder why it is not said that they should of course be authorised. But I have a question for the Minister: why were the psychomotor therapists unable to treat people under corona because they lacked this authorization? What was the reason?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517183919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517183920	I would simply find that difficult to answer right here on a stand-by basis. Unfortunately, I have to admit that. I remember now, when Mrs Liselott Blixt just mentioned it in her rapporteur's speech, that this was something we have talked about, or I have at least heard her say it, and I think perhaps we have also discussed it together. I actually think we do, and right on my feet I sat a little frigid looking in my queue of the day, as it is called, and it's not exactly an angle we've got covered by, but it's clearly relevant. I can see that it is. So I would very much like to deliver some written material to Mrs Liselott Blixt. It may even be relevant to look forward. Now we hope that we will not shut Denmark down in any way in the future, but no matter what you have to learn from things, and there may well be something here that needs to be learned. I'll give you that. I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517184004	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517184007	Thank you. This is perhaps the only professional bachelor's degree that remains, which does not also automatically have the possibility of being authorized after completion of education. When these professional groups work with people and thus also have a very, very great responsibility to take care of people because that's how it is when you're dealing with people... what does the government think about getting some kind of authorisation for those professionals who are lacking in health care? In other words, there are quite a few professionals who are left in the health sector who are not authorised. However, authorisation is also a quality mark in relation to the work that we as a society can do in the health sector. What does the Minister think about bringing in the last professional groups so that we at least, like the health service, have the quality stamp once and for all?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517184110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517184110-2	Thank you for that question. For that is what is at the heart and, as you have probably been able to see, having heard my two introductory speeches to these two discussions, I do not belong to those who have the political objective of approving as much as possible. I am a great, great supporter of our systems of authorisation, and it is, of course, a system that must be able to be used in everyday life, and we have our Management for Patient Safety, which uses it, and when they then assess where we have the risk in terms of patient safety, then I think we should take care of what comes from that management. This is not the end goal for me, and I do not think it would necessarily be better for the whole licensing model if more and more people were to have one. I am happy to take the debate on everything, including on this one, but I think we should weigh the advantages and disadvantages against each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517184211	Thank you. No one else has signed into this round, so we thank the Minister. We can now start the negotiation round itself, and that is according to the general rules, and we will first give the floor to the rapporteur of the questioners, and that is Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517184227	Thank you. I guess a lot of people are gonna ask, what's a psychomotor therapist? And what are they doing? Why is this important? Are they so important that they need a license? However, psychomotor therapists teach individuals or groups of relaxation, body consciousness and therapy, ergonomics, prenatal preparation, postnatal rehabilitation and child motor skills. The aim is to help the individual to function better in conjunction with family, work and society. Well, hello, isn't that exactly what we're looking for? And we need it when we have to treat the individual citizen. We are discussing health reform at the moment, when we are talking about the lack of people, the lack of staff, the lack of competences because we are not ready to look at the competences that actually exist. We are talking about the birth area, where the government has set aside money for an area where we see that there will be more complicated births. We have here some people who actually address some of these challenges. We need to start talking about psychiatry reform, a 10-year plan, and here we also have psychomotor therapists who are actually helping many of these people, and then I am surprised that they will not try to stamp them out. Then it might be that we got even more people who would like to work in a health service where you actually went in and concentrated on the individual in relation to how you act in other areas. Those are some of the things they can do. When asked the Danish psychomotor therapists, they believe that this is necessary in relation to the high degree of autonomy in the performance of psychomotor work, and where it is often vulnerable patients and citizens, and that there is a complexity. And all I have to say is that we know that there have been incidents, not just in psychomotor therapists, not anyone we know about, but of course there are incidents, but we have seen that some people are exploiting vulnerable people. So this is also a body contact you have and, as we heard earlier, everyone with a professional bachelor degree today has a license. Then why don't we have it in this group? I think it's because it's forgotten. As some people ask me, what are they doing? So I think it's important that we take this up and make sure they get that authorization. For once, there's certainly nothing like this that costs money in these things. This is usually the first excuse for not following a proposal. This is a group that can actually act itself, and when a license is made, you pay for your license, you pay for your supervision yourself. We have had it up many times, and it is actually quite expensive, but they still want to be authorised. So it's just to say again that I want us to get a license, and I had hoped that if you didn't want to back the other thing, you could back this up. But I will read out a proposal for adoption, and this time I remembered it, and that is by Mr Beazley. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF), Liselott Blixt (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG), Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG) and Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG). Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament gives high priority to patient safety and therefore requires the government to initiate a process for the authorisation of psychomotor therapists so that users of psychomotor therapy in Denmark can be sure and confident that their caregivers have received adequate training, that they are supervised and that patients can be complained and obtained in the event of maltreatment. Today, users have only limited opportunity to make sure that their psychomotor therapist has the right professional skills. In order to set up a licensing system, the duration and quality of training must necessarily be required, which in itself will benefit patient safety, and in addition, psychomotor therapists will receive a title protection which serves as a quality mark of their professionalism, which both benefits themselves and improves users. V 84). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517184729	Thank you. The read-out proposal for adoption will now be included in the further negotiations. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the Socialist rapporteur, Mrs Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517184738	Thank you for the floor. The question here, F 49, is in many ways close to the question that has just been closed, F 42. I can therefore only repeat what colleagues said in the Chair earlier today, in other words that the purpose of an authorisation is to strengthen patient safety and promote the quality of health care services. An authorisation restricts access to who can carry out the profession and allows the Patient Safety Agency to supervise the health care professionals and, in the utmost consequence, to deprive them of the authorisation. It must then be weighed against the benefits that will be for patient safety by introducing an authorisation. As in the case of F 42, the assessment here too is that an authorisation system cannot be justified on the grounds of patients' safety. As I said, the scheme is about the Authority for Patient Safety authorizing a number of health professionals because it has considered that there is a need for both regulation of the educational background and continuous supervision of the activity being carried out. It may be a doctor or dentist operating, or a chiropractor or a physiotherapist working with body and muscles. Here, lack of knowledge about what you work with can have major consequences for the patient. Therefore, we have provided in the Authorization Act that a number of treatments may only be carried out by authorised health professionals. It is clear that when you work with patients as a healthcare professional, we must make clear demands on what that person should be able to know and make sure that the person complies with the rules. The text from the authors refers to a note from the Danish Psychomotor Therapists association. The note contains an interesting review of the fields of work of psychomotor therapists. I have to say, however, that, as with the Ministry, it is not quite clear to me whether the types of manual treatments which, according to the memo, may involve a risk to the patient are based on concrete examples or are more hypothetical. The Board of Patient Safety has previously stated that the Board is not aware of cases of inappropriate professional behavior or patient injury related to psychomotor therapists' activities. The note also places a great deal of emphasis on the fact that an authorisation will make it easier to distinguish between those who have taken an education and those who have not. I can understand that wish, but I am not sure that the right solution will be approved. As the Ministry also points out, it can weaken credibility and confidence in the certification system itself if we start to introduce authorisation schemes for areas where it is not justified by the health profession. Because what are we really authorizing? And what kind of signal do we send to the users when we give the person our stamp? I miss the answer to that. It is also important to note that today's licensing law requires that a number of treatments of muscles and joints may only be carried out by authorised health professionals, such as physiotherapists and chiropractors, and that it is therefore punishable for other non-authorized persons to carry out this type of treatment. So because you are not covered by a licence, that does not mean that there are no rules as to what you can and cannot do or that you cannot be held liable if you violate the rules. Overall, therefore, it is assessed that it cannot be justified, on the basis of patient safety considerations, to introduce an authorisation system with the limitations it will impose on who can work as a psychomotor therapist and the additional tasks it will entail in terms of increased supervision of psychomotor therapists. Then I will read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten: Proposals for adoption AUTORATION schemes should, in the view of the Danish Parliament, take care of patient safety. In this connection, the Danish Parliament has noted that there is no medical basis for such a licensing system for psychomotor therapists, among other things. because there appear to be no patient safety challenges for the group. The Folketing has also noted that manipulation of the vertebral column, which may present a significant risk to patient safety, must not be carried out by the group, since the treatment is reserved, inter alia, for: chiropractors. Finally, the Folketing considers that, in view of the constraints imposed by such a system on business and equal access to professional activities, authorisation schemes should be introduced only where the scheme clearly serves the purpose of improving patient safety. On the basis of these considerations, the Folketing considers that there is no basis for introducing a licensing system for psychomotor therapists. The Danish Parliament is also asking the Minister for Health to send the committee a statement on employee groups in the health services which do not have a licence. V 85).
ParlaMint-DK_20220517185414	Thank you. The read-out proposal will now be included in the negotiations. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517185418	I am deeply surprised that the Socialists believe that one should only have an authorisation if one can do bodily damage, but not if one can do mental damage to people. That is what the rapporteur says in his speech. Why is it more important? Shouldn't psychiatry be equated with somatics? Why is it only joints, muscles and backs that are damaged, but not the mental? That is exactly what the rapporteur said in his speech. What is the reason for not authorizing people who can actually harm vulnerable people without being bodily?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517185459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517185501	I believe that there are very clear rules on what to do and what not to do in legislation, including in terms of psychological violence. And, as I said, I do not believe that the solution here is an authorisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517185514	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517185516	I understand that, but I would have taken down another argument much better. We are in front of making a psychiatry plan, but the people who deal with the most vulnerable people will not be authorised. We've also discussed it with psychologists. And that's what I'm wondering. Because then I think that where is the perspective of a psychiatry plan where we take care of the individual's mental health?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517185544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517185545	I believe that all health professionals employed in our healthcare care for patients and vulnerable patients. If you say that the authorisation system is the only way, then I would be very much inclined to refer to the Ethics Council, which made a statement in relation to health care. I think it is relevant to the way all health professionals act.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517185620	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We can move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517185630	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt and to the other non-attached Members who have raised this question about a licensing system for psychomotor therapists. This debate may at first sight remind a great deal of the debate we had just now. But nevertheless, when you then dive a little bit into matter in this, there are also, to the best of my knowledge, some differences. As I said in my previous speech, the Board for Patient Safety has some criteria which it believes should be taken into account when considering authorisation for health services. The first criterion, as I mentioned earlier, is whether the group has publicly regulated training to work in health care. It must be said that this is the case at a time when psychomotorists have a publicly regulated education which is at professional bachelor level. In addition, as far as I can understand, the training is also the only medical education at professional bachelor level which does not have an authorisation system. I can understand why this is so. In any case, I have the merit of finding some kind of logical justification for this when, in isolation, you look exactly at the question of education. The second criterion is whether the profession involves autonomy and patient contact, and it has to be said that it does. After all, there are a number of areas where psychomotorists' treatment will require both independence and patient contact, including manual bodily therapy, exercise in motion, and conversation about both bodily and emotional and thoughtful reactions. That is why, I think, it is possible to discuss positively whether this criterion is not also met. The third criterion is whether people in the exercise of psychomotor therapy pose a significant risk to patients. There is, of course, no reason to hide the fact that if you practice psychomotor therapy improperly, there are a number of things that can go wrong and thus be a danger or a nuisance to patients, both in terms of physical and mental. So here too I think we can discuss whether the criterion is not met. The fourth criterion is whether there is a need to indicate to the public, patients, health care or others whether this group of healthcare professionals fulfils the educational conditions for using a specific title. If you add this to the risk of mistreatment and, at the same time, you have publicly regulated education, then you can argue from a certain point of view that that criterion is met. I think it is a good discussion to take. This does not change the fact that we still think that we need to look at these things in the context of which areas of health care where otherwise it may be discussed whether the profession should have an authorisation system. So we would like to delve further into this issue of authorisation in general, including for psychomotorists, and that is why we are also putting forward a proposal for adoption in this area, asking the government to call for a debate on the licensing area in general, and discussions, as I said in my previous speech, which should take account of patient safety on the one hand, because this is an important starting point, but also, on the other hand, ensure that there is free and equal access to the individual profession. Then I will tire of reading out the same proposal for adoption that I read out earlier on behalf of the Left and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to produce a statement in which, among other things, there is a statement. a list of professions in the field of health, which are currently not authorised, and on this basis invites the political parties to discuss the possibility of extending the number of health certification professions. Discussions should be based on the need to ensure, on the one hand, the safety of patients and, on the other hand, free and equal access to the profession in question. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20220517190042	Thank you. This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further negotiations. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And we can move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517190055	Thank you for that, and thank you once again to Mrs Liselott Blixt for putting this question. It is very clear that this is an area for which the rapporteur's heart is beating, and that is something I recognize for myself as well. I also think it is an important effort that we have looked at how we can get quality labels on the professional groups working in the health sector, and so do psychomotor therapists. This has already been said on both sides of the Parliamentary Assembly, what a fine education we may not be talking about in everyday life, but which can actually be used in connection with a great many important functions in the health sector. In the SF we believe that professional groups who carry out health-care tasks in cooperation with patients and citizens should also have an authorisation. Psychomotor therapists, who used to be called détente teachers, therefore have a professional bachelor's degree programme, which is regulated by relevant public authorities and which may even be the only professional bachelor's degree in health, which does not yet have its own authorization. That is why I also think that it makes sense, and I think that it may be a neglected professional group at a time when, incidentally, we are also busy as a society, where we are struggling to put an end to distrust, both physically and psychologically, and where we need to think much, much more interdisciplinaryly in the health sector. So I think it is very positive that we are putting on the agenda here in the Parliamentary Chamber the old relaxation teachers and therefore the current psycho-motor therapists. I think it is necessary for us to draw on all our strength if it is the case that we have to respond to the great pressure on the health sector, and I also think it is reasonable that we should think about the authorisation of professional groups working in the field of health, which is why I also support the proposal for adoption which Mrs Liselott Blixt read out in her rapporteur's speech. I really believe that we should only get started on the question of the possibility that distraction teachers, psychomotor therapists, may be authorised. It has been a little bit confusing here because I have lost my time, so perhaps I really had 15-20 minutes to benefit which I could have spent, but I will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517190349	I regret that there were technical problems with the light and there was just a shift in the middle of it, but I am betting that the rapporteur has spent his time. Kirsten Normann Andersen I have said what I wanted to say). Thank you for that and there are no brief comments to the rapporteur. Then I can welcome the next rapporteur from the Radical Left. It's sir. Stinus Lindgreen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517190411	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for raising another interesting debate, this time on psychomotor therapists, and whether they should have an authorisation in healthcare. As mentioned in both the previous debate and earlier in this debate, there are several things that need to be present before an authorisation is appropriate. In this case, again, there are clearly people who have direct contact with patients, and there are also those who have publicly recognised training. But these are not the only criteria. When you read the Authorization Act, it is clear from the introduction that the aim is to limit the areas of activity in which other persons may be at particular risk to patients if they engage in the activity which is subject to authorisation. And that, again, according to the Patient Safety Agency, is not the case for this group of healthcare professionals, and therefore it is not relevant in our view to discuss whether they should be authorised. I think it is important to emphasise that an authorisation in itself is not a quality mark of an education. There are plenty of people in our healthcare system who are not authorised, but who also have an important role in patient contact. I could mention, for example: We are not in a position to do so, but we are not in a position to do so, and we are not in a position to do so. It does not say whether their work is less important, but it says something about the type of work they do, and I think it is important to keep in mind here, namely that we do not suddenly make it that you are worth nothing in our health care only if you have an authorisation, because that is by no means the case. And I think it is quite important to keep in mind in this debate and in the previous debate that one can easily be an important player in our health care, be important to patients, provide a substantial part of the treatment and make life better for our patients, but that it does not mean that it should be authorised. In the Radical Left, we support the text adopted by the rapporteur on Social Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517190610	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. Is there anyone from the Enhedslisten present? No, but it's there from the Conservative People's Party, and that's Mr. Conservatives. Per Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517190625	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt for raising this question debate. It is a little related to the previous proposal, but here it is another professional group, the psychomotor therapists. We believe, of course, that this must be based on a medical assessment. If we can increase patient safety with the proposal, we would like to do so, but that also requires us to clarify the consequences and the changes in the authorisation of psychomotor therapists that will result from this. We can also read that there is in fact no knowledge of anyone within the professional group who, at least according to the board's assessment, has put patients at risk. There are several different practitioners, and sometimes we see some stories in the media about therapists, not from this professional group, but from others who have put some things in perspective for vulnerable patients that have in no way had any time on earth. That is why we also take the view that if stumped vessels, which carry out forms of therapy or other things, do not behave properly, and here I am thinking of if you deceive people into something that does not even happen on earth, they must of course be severely punished, and we have actually had that on the programme for a long time because we believe that there may be a need to extend that framework of penalties. We sometimes see some patients who have paid hundreds of thousands of dollars for something that was totally ineffective. But exactly in relation to the specific case here with the question F 49 we have, together with the Left, drawn up a text which says that we would like to see it drilled out and that the government should call for some negotiations on the subject. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517190848	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517190857	Thank you. I shall be relatively brief, because this proposal is exactly the same as the one we had before. It is about the authorisation of a group of people who provide treatments out in our health system. And here we believe in the Danish People's Party, as we did before, that there should of course be an authorisation. Compared to the debate from before, there is, after all, the difference here that this is a licensed bachelor's degree programme, which has been taken care of so you don't even have that problem. You can just go in there and give the authorization you should do. So, yeah, that's what we mean. And I would just like to say that we support the text adopted by Mrs Liselott Blixt earlier. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517190948	Thank you to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. And as far as I can see, we are in the rapporteur's line and, of course, the rapporteur for the questioners is allowed to round off the debate. So welcome to Mrs Liselott Blixt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517191011	I would like to thank you again for the debate. It is always exciting to hear what arguments people have when it is they do not support it. Thank you very much to Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl for supporting her and to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party. It's warm that they see this, but I also know that we have a lot in common when it is. But I also think we need to look at it, because I was a little surprised by the Social Democrat rapporteur, who talked a lot about this because if you break a tooth or something happens to a muscle or something else, it is important that the practitioner has an authorisation. And that means that if a person's mind breaks, it's not important in the same way. This mental strength thing is something you want in the psychiatric field, and that's exactly what you can do in this area. That is what I started by saying, namely that I made contact with a woman who was even more affected by anxiety because she could not come to her therapist because she was not authorized. But I think it is important to take part in this when we start talking psychiatry plan, so that we think that there is as much quality in those who treat the body and mind as there is in those who take care of other bodily things. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517191142	Thank you to Mrs Liselott Blixt. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As I said earlier, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place on Thursday 19 May.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517191159	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517191222	Thank you very much, and also thank you very much to the Danish People's Party and Mr. Peter Skaarup to raise this debate on a quality scheme for stores. I would like to start by saying that I think this is an important issue that will be put on the agenda. I say this because it is totally unacceptable when some people cheat others for their own gain. So it doesn't really matter whether it's customers or the Treasury that you're cheating or whether it's a lack of VAT or the sale of too old candy or drugs to minors. Grove and systematic infringement must be dealt with, and this must be done quickly and firmly. However, with a quality scheme for shops similar to the Danish Food Authority's smiley scheme, I believe that we are going to use the forces in a wrong place, even though I fully share the intentions behind the specific proposal here, because a smiley scheme of this type will require a significantly greater control and a massive additional allocation for a large number of control areas • money, which I think we can spend better, money, which I think we can get more effect from in a different way. Today, the vast majority of new food companies are being visited. This means that they quickly get a smiley, and that the FDA can continuously follow up with control. The controls on e.g. tax, tobacco control and in a wide range of other areas are based solely on risk assessment. In other words, on the basis of data, the authorities carry out checks where there is the greatest risk of offences. On the other hand, a smiley scheme would require start-up visits and minimum frequencies of visits to companies, which means that the control pressure will be much higher and much more expensive, and then it will mean that resources will be used to control everyone instead of focusing on those who are most at risk of cheating. One example is age control in the sale of tobacco and alcohol. Here, the Danish Security Authority is doing control in approx. 950 stores a year, and this is based on the risk of finding infringements. If there were to be a smiley scheme for all the shops that sell alcohol and tobacco at all, there would probably be a need for a tenfold increase in the number of controls, and that is just one area. On top of that comes the control of sales records, VAT, taxes, mortgages, undeclared work, cigarettes with banderols, etc. etc. So the effect will simply not be equal to what it costs. Most of all, it will create administration and a lot of trouble without the effect we want from both sides at the other end. Then I must also be honest and say that I think we have much better things to spend good money on, such as the green transition and a strengthened defence. There are plenty of areas where money can be spent and spent more efficiently. But to return to the proposal: I share the intention in the proposal. We must take action against serious and systematic infringements, for example. kiosks, pizzerias and bike dealers. That is why I propose that we examine the possibility of the authorities sharing data on infringements so that we can crack down on repeated violations, including across the various areas of the ministry. In this context, the government will have a special focus on the possibilities for intervention, for example. in the case of kiosks which do not comply with the legislation on payment of VAT, the lack of a mortgage, the sale of tobacco to minors, etc. So we cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution which has been tabled here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517191633	Then we thank the Minister. Mr President, there is a request for a brief comment. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517191639	Thank you for the Minister's speech here, and thank you for your commendation. But perhaps I think that is almost the only thing that can be thanked for, because I did not hear such a concrete proposal as to what the government will do. Yes, you want to think about something, yes, but what do we do about the shops, the pizzerias, and what is it that cheats on basic things that just need to be taken out of the community fund? After all, it is not only those who sell for old foods that are the problem when the citizen sees what is going on. Those too are very much the ones who cheat in relation to taxes, and unfortunately there are a lot of them. Once in a while, when it comes to one day, we see a lot of examples of some people who deliberately do not have control of things, and also some who excel in change of ownership and such things to avoid paying the bills that lie to the state. So what exactly will the government do in this area? I miss the answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517191742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517191745	Thank you. Well, we're in complete agreement. It is very awful when you experience that the shop's facade is changed overnight, but that it is basically the same business that goes on and there is no effective intervention. Two things on my part: one is that I think we can actually already say that we have lifted our efforts towards these types of kiosks, as they are in many cases. The whole of the laughing-stock and the controls resulting from it, the increased controls on the sale of tobacco and alcohol to minors and the increased tax controls are different controls, all of which have been strengthened. The second thing is, as I say in my speech, that we can easily look at whether our supervisory authorities can work together even better and be better at sharing data on offences. And then we have to look at the legal framework in order to be able to come after these so-called serial fraudsters, which it hits extra hard if they both cheat with VAT and illegal tobacco and food etc. So we have strengthened control on some points, but we can make cooperation slip better, I think. In any case, we will have to look into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517191859	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517191902	Okay. If we try to separate it a little, then I think what the Minister is saying is that one would like to look at how to better share information. Well, I suppose it's something to be able to share information with others that some have committed crimes in one field. But can the Minister comment on what the government intends to do? Are there any plans for changes in the law? What is needed to make this effort, because the effort is extremely important? Well, every day there's business out there that thinks they're being cheated by others who don't pay what they're supposed to pay to society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517191941	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517191943	That is precisely where we are at the heart of the problem. One thing is that I share the outrage of those who cheat with the questioner, whether it is tax dollars or hygiene or minors who can buy tobacco and alcohol; but it is just as much because of the companies who are trying to live up to our rules in Danish society who are experiencing unequal competition because some can cheat on it. Today, most control authorities do not actually have data on the extent of cheating in kiosks, pizzerias, etc. We can see if you can land a report on it. And what I think I would like to open up to look at is how our supervisory authorities can cooperate better, for example. on sharing data on offences, in order to strengthen the picture of where the problem is, so that we can also strengthen the focus of control.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517192035	But thank you to the Minister. There are no further comments to the Minister. That is how the rapporteur begins. Welcome to the Social Democrat rapporteur, sir. Malte Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517192055	Thank you very much. I would like to begin by expressing my support for the motion for a resolution tabled by the motion for a resolution tabled by the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The proposal gives us the opportunity to discuss and clarify what we are doing with the shopkeepers who cheat consumers, other companies or the whole of society. This is totally unacceptable when some people are trying to circumvent the rules and guidelines we now have in Denmark. I fully agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution. However, the fact that we cannot support the resolution is due to the fact that the proposal envisages a completely different approach to control than the one we know today. The proposal also looks quite cost-effective. The proposal obliges the government to put forward a bill introducing a quality scheme, namely a smiley scheme, for shops. The scheme must cover both matters relating to VAT, social conditions and working conditions in the individual shop and the owner himself. Today, for example, control is being exercised. the sale of tobacco and alcohol on the basis of risk-based supervision. This means that on the basis of data, the authorities carry out checks where there is the greatest risk of cheating. The controls carried out with food companies, which are used as an example of the proposed controls, are, after all, much more extensive. A system which is being proposed here will require much more resources in the form of inspection visits, and then it is an expensive system of money which, by its very nature, must come from other public undertakings. And frankly, I am not sure that the impact of the scheme will be commensurate with the cost of introducing it. That is why I think we need to spend the money more wisely. I am, on the other hand, pleased that the Minister for Industry takes this issue seriously and has today set out to investigate the possibility that the authorities can share data precisely in order to crack down on those who repeat the offences. On that basis, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517192255	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is for Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517192300	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I mean, there are two things I think we have to deal with here. One is: the rapporteur speaks against much more control because it is expensive. Let me remind you of today's news that control of social dumping has provided the Treasury with over 300 million. kr.; i.e. 300 million. kr. We are all entitled to income from the Treasury, because social dumping is better controlled. Compared with the initiatives we have taken in this area, it should be said, in parentheses, that it is a much lower amount per year. Years have been set aside for this control on the Finance Laws. My second point is this: does the rapporteur not believe in the political consumer? I think the political consumer is incredibly strong, and if the political consumer sees a smiley where it can be seen that things are being cheated in a shop, then I think he goes by and to the next store. So will it not also have an educational effect on the shops that don't bother to follow the rules and laws that we have in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517192410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517192412	Yes, I am quite convinced of that. I believe in the political consumer. I am also convinced that if the smiley marks were free out there and there was no new control regime, then it was easy to tackle. I am also glad that the rapporteur mentions precisely the point of social control. Hopefully, this will also be a success story with the control efforts that have been undertaken in the field of the Danish Tax Administration and which, after under-financing for many years, will be allowed to roll quietly. Hopefully it will give a greater sense of justice and a greater income to society, in that we will at least pay the tax we all have to pay, and in that companies will also pay the tax they have to pay.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517192453	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517192455	We can hope that, in other words, there will be more revenue and that what has been done in relation to social dumping, which has been very, very precisely selected and said by means of a number of financial laws that a great deal of work is actually prioritised here, will have an effect. I would just like to say that it is a belief and hope that you can have as rapporteur in relation to this. We know something's working. I mean, this smiley scheme actually works, compared to the fact that consumers have a specific tool so they can say: I don't want to deal with that store because they don't have the right thing to do. After all, was it not very good to consider on the part of the Social Democrats to support such a proposal as this today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517192536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517192539	As I said, we share the intentions behind it, and if it could be done at no cost, I think we were there too. However, as I said, we believe that there are good success stories, what the rapporteur himself says, and a chance that, when we make controls intelligent and targeted, we will get more out of the means of control that we jointly allocate to the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517192603	Thank you, sir. Malte Larsen and the Social Democratic Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517192617	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling the motion for a resolution that we are debating tonight. I shall be speaking on behalf of the Left rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen read the speech. The Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution which is intended to go after the stinging vessels that run retail business in Denmark. This is certainly a sympathetic proposal, because none of us think it is fair that there are shops, kiosks or pizzerias that cheat with VAT or mortgage, pay employees black or otherwise fraud. This is totally unacceptable, and it is unfair competition with the business owners, shops and self-employed who legally run a proper business. This is certainly not a new issue. Fortunately, many political initiatives have also been taken in this area through my own initiative, and that is the rapporteur, Mr President. Torsten Schack Pedersen's 17 years in the Danish Parliament. Fraud with soda water, lack of mortgage marks and illegal candy are areas where we have sharpened the penalties significantly over the years. There is a requirement, or at least it is right on the stairs, for digital cash registers if things are not right. Earlier today, in fact, we have also dealt with tightening up the rules for the use of audits for selected risk sectors, where the requirement to include an accountant when accounting is being carried out is being tightened. And we are also tightening up the penalties for deliberately disposing of its accounting material, which makes it impossible for the authorities to gain insight into the business economy, and rules for bankruptcy cartels have been tightened and much more. And the things we've done are important. The Left would always like to help ensure greater compliance with rules, but we should not create bureaucracy and trouble. That is why we also find it rather difficult to see that this specific motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party solves a serious problem. So we support the intentions of the proposal, but we do not see the concrete proposal as an effective tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517192834	Thank you, Mrs Matthiesen, and thank you to the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517192848	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for tabling this motion for a resolution. On the part of the SF, we agree with the analysis that there are some places and some areas where there is an increased risk of cheating and where there are too many cases of bad behavior, cheating, sloppy, poor treatment of customers, unlawfulness, etc. That is also why we have risk-based supervision today, in other words to look at some of the places where there is an increased risk. In order to make a small leap, I would like to say that the SF has proposed that you should have the right to a business account. Despite the fact that there are some sectors where there is an increased risk or an increased number of bad cases, the individual should not suffer. Let me jump back to this suggestion. There are plenty of good, honest and decent businesses, small businesses and one-man businesses out there, and I am also quite sure that they are not them, Mr President. Peter Skaarup is referring to; they are the ones that are problematic. I and SF think it would be a waste of resources to have to go after all companies rather than go more targeted and have this risk-based approach to the shops and the companies involved. I have previously been a lot after the Danish Business Authority, compared to that it at some point only took journalists a few hours to find several Anders Duck companies. But there has been tightening up, and more and more technology and artificial intelligence have been used to find patterns and to find the things that do not fit in. I expect that to be used more and more in this area, so that when you have these data, there are some red flags you can pursue. We are involved in doing a lot, and we are also involved in trying to see whether we can find some funding for extra controls, but therefore on a risk-based principle. And then some of my colleagues have listed some of the things that we have already done. So, these are actions against laughter gas; we have also had some of these travel teams, consisting of the IRS, the police and trade unions, to ensure that things are done properly and so on. We are very much in favour of this in the SF, but again it has to be a risk-based principle that is behind it, otherwise we can use our entire state budget to go after each company and get these controls done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517193208	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen and to the Socialist People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517193219	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Much along with all the others who have taken the floor in relation to this motion for a resolution, I also understand the intention behind the motion for a resolution and thank you for having put it forward, but I also share the concern expressed by previous speakers in relation to the proportionality of how many forces they will use to go out and investigate completely law-abiding, good, ordinary shops where no one tries to cheat anyone, to try to catch the few. Therefore, I agree that the risk-based approach to this should be the way forward. I think that Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen had some good points in relation to the fact that we are starting to use data much more to find patterns in this. That is why I actually like what the Minister proposed in relation to increased data sharing. In any case, we would also like to help to see whether we can go that way and make sure that we find those who cheat and can go more targeted on them. Therefore, Radicals cannot support this proposal, but look forward to further work on how we can increase control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517193344	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Rune Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517193356	First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for this motion for a resolution. On the Enhedslisten side, we fully agree that there must be a reduction in shops that trade in illegal goods, employ black labour and otherwise cheat. This is totally unacceptable and, as the motion for a resolution also notes, has a negative distorting effect on shops that behave properly and act according to the rules. However, on the part of the Enhedslisten, we do not agree with the method being proposed. We feel that fraudsters who are conscious of fraud should not have a face-down smiley. We think they should be fined. And in the case of repeated and systematic infringements, we also need to look more closely at how they can lose their license if they cannot find a way of complying with the rules. What we really think should happen is an increased effort of control, not only at retail level, but also at wholesale level, in other words, that we are looking at additional appropriations and strengthening the Labour Inspectorate in terms of combating social dumping; that we are looking at whether we can do even more in terms of combating social dumping, even if, with Enhedslisten's marked fingerprints, we have set aside historically large amounts of funding to combat social dumping in the 2020 Finance Act, where we really got started. And then we also need to look at increased tax controls, which is, of course, about us being able to see that hiring more control officers is worthwhile. They are employees who earn their wages home very many times. If we look specifically at taxes and excise duties in relation to kiosks, then there is not much control revenue per. Control Officer. There are other areas where control revenue is greater. It may be VAT carousels, or it may be large companies. And it can be in certain parts of other VAT areas, i.e., for example. negative VAT where the State pays back VAT. There we are talking about employees being able to earn their own pay home 20, 30, 40 times, although they need many more colleagues and do not even get to the bottom of all the cases they could control. But it must also be said that this is really not just about money in the box, but also about the sense of justice. You can go into a kiosk, and if it feels that everything is just wrong and completely wrong here, then it is also a bad signal to send that nothing is being done about it, of course also in relation to the operators who can find a way of complying with the rules and who have to compete on unequal terms. So we cannot support the B proposal here, but we think that there are many other things we can and should do to get rid of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517193644	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517193652	The rapporteur refers to the fight against social dumping, and there we are in complete agreement. It really is a profit business, it seems with the figures that we have seen today, the state has there with the effort being made in relation to the huge amounts that come in from the control. I was struck by the fact that the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party and indeed the Minister also said that a great deal of things have now been put in the way of taxation and all sorts of other things, so there will be good work and control in this area too. That's where I thought that now is mr. Rune Lund has been with him for many years in relation to both taxes and other things here in the Danish Parliament. Did Mr. Rune Lund has the same belief that with what has been put in the lake, you have completely control of those who cheat with taxes out in stores, i.e. those shopkeepers who don't care about the community and just don't pay their things?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517193748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517193750	No, I do not think we do, and I think we can actually read from the tax control impact assessment that has just arrived. This is an analysis by the Treasury, which is the result of a financial bill. There you can see that the first 1.000 extra tax control officers, as decided, can get up to 7 billion. kr. extra in the Treasury if they go for the control projects where the most money is to be collected. It is not, in fact, primarily the kiosks, but it is other areas. The cousins can also be part of an ecosystem that is not positively understood, it is adversely understood where they form part of one, one can say organized crime and as part of the chain, one can say, so things are also connected in relation to different kinds of cheating and including cheating with VAT among other things. But we haven't gotten far enough. The first 1,000 people employed have been employed in many important areas, but it could have been achieved by employing them elsewhere more than the approx. 1.2 billion kr., it is believed to have been received. There is, in fact, an additional potential for those already employed of 5 billion. kr., and if you hire 1,000 extras, the potential is up to 11 billion. kr. This means that the potential is actually very great by simply hiring 1,000 extra control staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517193908	Sir. Peter Skaarup, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517193911	Well, we can praise ourselves for the fact that Mr. Rune Lund is still away in here and can contribute such numbers. I hope the Minister and the Social Democrats are listening. I think the rapporteur is talking about some of the right things here. The question is whether you can't do it in this way, either with this proposal, but we're also willing to see if you can do something else in the same way, it's not at all crucial, can look at, for example. the fact that there are a number of small pizzerias and supermarkets and solar centers shooting up where you could get a sense of whether there is any business basis at all for it, or whether you really use many of these shops to have a very small sale and then cheat tax dad in some different areas that we hardly have imagination to imagine.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517194002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517194004	Yes, and of course there are plenty of kiosks and small shops and small supermarkets that comply with the rules and run exactly the business they need to do. But it is also obvious that it is a risk industry where there may be major problems in complying with the rules and where it can also be linked to others, that is to say to be part of a chain where there are also other places in that chain, in the context of organised crime, cheating and tax fraud on a very different scale, for example. in the field of VAT. So, of course, things are connected, and of course there is also more that we need to do in relation to kiosks and small businessmen who cannot find out how to comply with the rules. That goes without saying. It has to be said, however, that the very big money is really picking up where the very big companies can't figure out how to comply with the rules. That is where the millions and billions, if you count over a few years, really roll in when tax controls are made. But this area is also important, also for the sense of justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517194058	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund, thank you to Enhedslisten. Then there are no further brief comments to the rapporteur, and the next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party. It's Mrs. Mona Juul. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517194112	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the proposers for focusing on both better food safety and anti-competitive and unacceptable activity. Conservatives fully agree with the background to the proposal. We are constantly puzzled by what various court cases expose to fraud in everything from illegal goods to employment relationships that contain neither contracts nor payrolls. Clearly, the high charges provide an incentive to cheat, but that does not make it any more acceptable. Of course, when these types are running black, things aren't in the books either. I also do not know whether a perhaps expensive and perhaps bureaucratic solution to the smiley scheme will work. Are you more or less a criminal? Cheat and scams must be stopped, not graded, and why not just turn up the raids. Whatever the case, it will require more knowledge and dialogue with the retail trade and a further political discussion in which we would very much like to take part. Let me conclude with a personal hoax: we, as citizens, are also responsible. We know that when, for example, goods are sold without a mortgage. It's actually really easy to spot. Our society is based on trust; that we pay for strawberries and potatoes by the road, even if nobody sees it; that we are actually trying to put plastic in the plastic container and not in it for cardboard at the landfill, even if nobody sees it; that of course we are not walking around with the right attitudes and at the same time turning a blind eye to hot goods and black work. Up with the morals and down with the scams. And in these words, we would very much like to be included in a report so that we can take action and ensure that we get rid of the fraud.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517194252	Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party. I can give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517194311	I just had to get used to the fact that no more parties wanted to speak, but it is up to the parties themselves if they want to take part in this kind of debate. After all, we do not have a legal requirement for them to do so, at least not yet. Thank you for your consideration of this proposal, and thank you to the Minister for considering, as I heard at the beginning, whether something more could be done, including perhaps sharing some different information between authorities. That was the closest thing I could hear as an admission or as something you would like to do. For my part, I have taken the liberty of using these figures from today, which show that the effort is being made against social dumping. Rune Lund also used some other numbers • giving incredibly large amounts the other way into the Treasury. That really means that much of what you do, as some people in this Chamber claim, is going to be expensive and difficult and bureaucratic and so on, actually gives an incredible amount of money the other way. So if you dare to invest a little, it may in fact be that you get both more money in the Treasury and that you get more satisfied consumers, who know this smiley scheme today in a good way, that is, more satisfied politically If you first go into self-confidence in something that doesn't work, that is, in some places where you don't want to act, then it can be right, really strong, both positive and negative, but positive, if you're happy about something, and negative, if you're definitely not. Well, the proposal itself is about this smiley scheme we know today. It's mandatory for all stores. It is something that stores that trade in food kiosks, supermarkets and similar markets are subject to, and that actually testifies to, if it is a happy smiley, the business's ability to handle food. Many of them, fortunately, live up to the food-handling requirements laid down, and the results of the checks, which are being prepared by the food authorities, must be visible in the window. This means that customers know what the situation in the individual store is and they can choose to and from that path on a relatively enlightened basis; that is at least the basis provided by the authorities. My impression is that some of those who are out doing this control think and say to themselves: yes, it's good work we do here, but it's really strange that you don't check in some of the other areas where shops should actually be frontrunners for the good stuff. pay their taxes, pay their taxes, pay their VAT. That is where the Danish People's Party comes in with this proposal, because our proposal is so that we want the same form of control introduced in the smiley stores, but where it is primarily about whether the stores have control of the VAT-related payments that they have to deal with. And I guess we all know great stories from the newspapers about how many places it's mad and how many places you try to cheat on things. It may also be the case that the store has control over employees' employment relationships, whether the shops are scamming with employees who receive different forms of public support, while working in that place. Unfortunately, there are quite a lot of shops that cheat on goods that they parallel. There are some who sell cans without a mortgage; there are employees who are officially on public social services, so officially and there are some who change ownership when the authorities have too much eye on them. There are some who run parallel box systems; there are some who fail to disclose all sales goods to the authorities, etc. etc. Unfortunately, there are some who are really bad on that front; and fortunately there are many who do not, but behave properly and risk being outperformed by those who cheat and deceive. I don't really see that, and we in the Danish People's Party don't know why consumers need to know which store they're dealing in when it comes to some of these things, but it can be told when it comes to food, when the authorities are out to control anyway. This would allow customers to avoid inadvertently supporting a shop which is a fraud in relation to one or more of these different areas. After all, as a businessman, it should not only be their food management, which they must comply with in relation to the relevant controls, so that it becomes visible to customers. There may be many other parameters on which to compete. It should perhaps be a matter of course for you to pay your taxes and VAT, but unfortunately it is not. So, precisely in order to be able to make an active opt-out, we actually think that this is a sensible proposal. It is also very easy to say, because it is one we have brought in ourselves. However, I believe that there is support for such a proposal here among some of the employees who are dealing with such a thing. So, in other words, we think it would be essential to have a kind of extended smiley system in future, in which, in addition to hygiene rules, we also look at some other control areas. It may be that we have not just found the stone of the viewer in relation to this proposal, as it is written down with comments etc., but we really think that we have thought well about things. If there is no majority for that and I can hear that does not happen today, there is only support from the Enhedslisten, in part at least then it may be that it goes into the trash. Then we hope that it can be unfolded again, that a little correction can be made and that it can then be used by the government or some others at another time. So maybe we've planted one more seed in relation to something. Because again we believe a lot in these political consumers. We can see with all sorts of things whether it's vegan food, whether it's halal-free food of one and another and third kind, whether it's animal welfare, etc. etc. There are a great many examples of the political consumer's beatings. Because, as a consumer, you are informed that a single business or several people have no control over essential matters at all, yes, the vast majority of people choose to put their money elsewhere. Then they don't have to go in and taste the candy that is years too old; then they can actually, even before they go into the store, find out that there is something completely wrong here. So that way, business is also forced to get out of the bush; either they have to run the business on proper conditions, or they have to shut down because the store may be hiding from something else, or because it just doesn't meet normal requirements. The content of this proposal could help regulate shops that do not want to play by their own free will according to the same rules and frameworks that other stores play by. And we really need independent businessmen and entrepreneurs who want to follow the rules; we do not need parallel businesses that run more or less bypass the rules and frameworks of the remaining society. That is why this proposal, which is why we hope that we have sown a seed so that the government will be able to make something similar or re-use some of the proposal. It's completely without copyright. Go ahead, Minister, get out of the bush and do something that works for the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517195136	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Katrine Robsøe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517195142	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I actually just wanted to ask one question, and that is in relation to what I heard Mr. Peter Skaarup asked about other rapporteurs and also mentioned here in the speech, namely that we want companies to behave properly. When I hear sir... Peter Skaarup, I am just wondering more and more why the Danish People's Party is not in the agreement we made on increased revision. I believe that it was today that we had the second reading of L 163B, where we are just making sure that more companies have to make use of audits if they are part of these risk industries. Well, now I know that Mr. Knox... Peter Skaarup is not normally the rapporteur in this area and therefore may not be able to answer why the DF is not on that bill, but at least a call from here to visit it again, because I think it sounds as if the Danish People's Party could also be part of a bill that at least right now seems to have support, including myself and Radicals, from the Enhedslisten to the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517195246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517195248	We are always happy to visit legislative proposals and resolutions, and if that is something we can support, it is a good thing. But it is often the case that there is both bad and cinnamon. There may be many good things in it, but then there may also be some things that you might not think are so good that you can do that you cannot ultimately support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517195305	Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517195321	The debate is open. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Malte Larsen of the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517195343	Thank you very much. For us, it is important for the public sector to send an important signal of responsibility and properness when it buys from private companies. Every year, the public sector buys in over 380 billion. kr., and public procurement therefore constitutes a strong muscle that can be used to boost important agendas and create changes. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to green conversion, sustainable solutions and training of the workforce of the future. We believe that the procurement law should be more supportive of the social concerns that are at the heart of the development of the welfare society. That is also the background to the draft law here. It aims to follow up on the new initiatives that we agreed on with the agreement •A new reform package for the Danish economy. In addition, it concerns some necessary adaptations to the Procurement Act, which was identified in the evaluation of the Procurement Act, as well as a number of other challenges of a general social nature. First of all, the draft law here strengthens the possibility of excluding companies that do not comply with the rules. This means, among other things, that we are introducing a new ground for exclusion for companies established in tax havens, that we are making the voluntary exclusion grounds of serious negligence compulsory and that we are extending the period of exclusion. Following on from this, it is also proposed that contracting entities should make green demands in their tenders in order to support the green conversion, or it should be quite clear why it is not possible to make such a requirement, because it is important for the Social Democrats that companies competing for public contracts are treated both fairly and equally. Secondly, the draft law will also support the training of the workforce of the future by obliging contracting entities to introduce a requirement for the use of people in training, for example. apprentices, in relevant public contracts. The aim of this is to support the creation of more apprenticeships. Thirdly, the draft law will also mean that the reliability assessment will be taken over by an entity entrusted with the task of assessing the reliability of companies in the conduct of public procurement processes. It is expected that in the future the reliability assessment will be more effective, as it is the entity and not the individual contracting entity that will have to carry out the assessment in each procurement. In addition, some more technical amendments to the Procurement Act are also proposed. To sum up briefly, the proposal means that we ensure that the public sector sends out an important signal of responsibility and fairness when it buys in. We make it easier for companies to provide goods and services and we ensure that companies compete on equal terms. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party can support the bill here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517195642	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517195655	Thank you for that, President. When the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen is prevented from being here tonight, I have promised to read the speech. Public procurement annually accounts for over 380 billion. kr. That is why we also have a duty to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent in the best possible way. That is why we have a procurement law to ensure that purchases are made efficiently so that we promote competition and promote innovation. The Procurement Act, which is in force, was adopted back in 2015 only after amendments to an underlying EU directive, but also after thorough Danish committee work. In other words, this was a very thorough preparatory work at the time. Part of the law was that the law had to be evaluated. It has been in 2019 and in 2020. The evaluation has given rise to a number of clarifications and adjustments which basically seem quite reasonable, but the draft law here also contains elements from the Government's agreement of January this year, so that the Procurement Act should now no longer serve only as a procedural law, which must also include certain requirements and criteria into the law itself. A number of business organisations have come up with a number of inputs for improvement, and I shall not begin to review them all here from the platform, because they are well described in the consultation responses. Unfortunately, we think that there are a number of their proposals that the government has not included in the legislative proposal itself, and we will be asking about this further during the committee procedure. For it has to be said that we in the Left have a clear interest in making the procurement process both easy and efficient and, at the same time, promoting competition and innovation. In fact, we on the Left also believe that this important legislative proposal does not receive the treatment it deserves. The submission of the bill was originally scheduled for the end of January, but since the government chose to make the proposal for part of the negotiations on Denmark more ■, the bill has only been tabled one week ago. And we then have only a few weeks, with an interruption in the referendum on the defence reserve, to deal with this bill, and we are actually very concerned about that. We believe that it is certainly important to make demands, such as Ventre. the requirement of apprentices when the public buys. It was also a clear strategy from the Left, the last time we sat in government offices. So we agree on the goal. Today, we can have doubts as to whether it makes sense in any case to introduce an apprenticeship requirement. Moreover, it is worth noting that while there has been a positive development in the number of apprenticeship contracts in the private labour market, an increase of up to 3% in fact. From 2018 to 2020, the number of training places in the public labour market in the same period has decreased by 6%, so the public sector must also take on its own bosom. The draft law also provides for a very far-reaching authorisation of the Secretary of State to be able to issue an order with so-called work clauses. It is a very far-reaching legal basis that is given to the Minister. We believe that it is reasonable that as far-reaching rules as we sense the government has in mind here are directly reflected in the law and not just implemented by the minister through a decree. Finally, concerns have been raised about the IT platform proposed by the draft law to be developed. We shall also be asking about this in the further work of the committee. And without going into details, we would say that even if the IT budget lasts, which does not always happen, it will take up to almost 30 years before it has earned itself home. As I said, the Procurement Act is important, and that is why we are also critical of a number of the concrete elements contained in the draft law. The Government considers that the proposal will entail additional public expenditure. The Left's ambition is that through competition we will get taxpayers' money to go further and, as I have said, we will be asking a number of questions during the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517200145	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517200201	Today we are dealing with the procurement law, and it is a really, really important law, because it is the one that sets the framework for how we spend a great deal of money in the public sector. We spend 380 billion each year. kr. on goods and services in the public domain, and we need to spend that money as best we can, both for the sake of taxpayers, for citizens in municipalities and regions, and for the sake of climate and the environment, and for the way we expect our businesses to act when they have to make money on public tasks. There are some things in this bill that have been put forward by the Minister of Business, which we in the SF are very happy about. After all, the apprenticeship area is one of the things that we are really putting into effect with the agreement that Denmark can do more than that, and where we all agreed that we simply also have to make demands on the companies that have to have public tasks, because we have thousands of young people who cannot find an apprenticeship, and because we have an alternance training system in Denmark that means that they have to be on the school bench for some time, and that they have to be out in the companies in some of the time, and otherwise they cannot complete their training. That is why, of course, companies must take their part and you cannot shout and scream at labour if you do not also deliver, and this is where we are demanding, with this change, that you should of course live up to it. We in the SF are also very happy that we have got some more robust tools in terms of making green demands. When we spend 380 billion. kr. of course, we must also use it every year so that we can achieve our objective of a better environment and greater biodiversity, and not least in the area of climate change, in relation to the 70-percent objective that we all agree on, and so there is something to be desired when it comes to so much money. Some of the things I would have liked us to have gone further in the procurement law. I do not want to hide that from the workers' clause, about what is called due diligence, and about tax havens, and I would also like to make a few comments on that. After all, working clauses say something about the demands that can be made on a company that can make money on a public task, that is to say proper pay and working conditions, and that is something that can be demanded without conflicting with EU legislation. We would have liked to have seen it go further and written into the law. It also says in the evaluation report that it is on page 172 that it is possible to introduce work clauses, and therefore it was a disappointment for us that it alone stands as something we have to look at again. I hope that next time we look at it, it will be something. Something else is what is called due diligence, and it is just an English word that covers the corporate community responsibility. A great many companies, especially the large ones, have a global impact, whether they are working conditions, environmental impacts, whether they pay taxes where they produce their goods or the like, and therefore they must behave properly, both at home, but to a great extent also in the world. And there's EU legislation on the way. That's right, but it may take a long time, and we would have liked to have a Danish due diligence written in here as well. The last thing I want to say is tax havens. Of course, we have to do something here when the European Commission even calls on us to do so. It is not just that they say that we must, but they call on us to do so because they know very well that the people of the EU countries are losing support for expensive aid packages, corona relief packages, or to spend billions of tax dollars for companies that do not comply with some of the most basic things and the things we have agreed with each other. The European Union's tax havens are perhaps the smallest, the minimalist, tax havens one could imagine, but that was what was politically possible and not even that we can refer to. I find that disappointing. But the Minister has promised that we must now have a look at this, we must have the understanding with the Commission that I think they write quite clearly in their letter to us and the other EU countries. But I will let the Minister say something about that himself. So it is a mixed bag of candy and we would very much have liked to see a better procurement law, but there is also some clear progress in what is being put forward today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517200716	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen, Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517200721	Thank you. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Now I think I allowed myself to be provoked a little by what the SF rapporteur said, that additional demands are now being made on private companies in relation to the provision of more apprenticeships. Can the SF's rapporteur state what is the state's position in terms of providing more apprenticeships?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517200747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517200748	Well, Mrs. Anni Mattiesen kicks in an open door when it comes to me. I have no preference for the public sector not to deliver at least as much, if not more. Of course, we must take the lead, and it is true in all areas whether it is apprentices, whether it is how you behave towards citizens or your customers. We also sometimes have a discussion about: should the public authorities be able to be fined in line with private companies if some rules are broken? Of course you have to be able to get it. Well, there's no disagreement here between us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517200821	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517200823	That's good to hear. For last Wednesday, SF's Mr. Karsten Hønge down here asked the Minister for Children and Education questions about that particular subject, and I have to say that I myself was shocked when I heard that there has actually been a 6% decline in the public sector. in relation to apprenticeships, whereas the private sector has made 3% progress. What could the rapporteur imagine we could make of demands on the public authorities?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517200856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517200857	I am not 100% sure about this, but I have been told that part of the explanation, and it is not to defend it, but that part of the explanation is that the public has been under pressure in some areas where we have had a boom, and that a great many private companies have gone excellent, so perhaps there is some more space. But I think we should make exactly the same demands. I also think that there should be some sort of sanctions if we do not meet targets. Of course. We have a huge recruitment crisis right now in the whole welfare area. Of course, you must also be involved in training future nurses and educators and everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517200942	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517200955	Thank you for the floor. 380 billion kr. buys in the public sector every year, and that is also a kind of money. It is certainly money for which I believe we should set a good framework; a framework that should be beneficial for local companies who have the opportunity to tender local tenders and for the benefit of our municipalities and our entire business community, who must find each other in the right match between tenders and tenders. I also believe that this should be of benefit to our society as a whole and to the green transition. The bill here contains some more technical changes in relation to the procurement law and the evaluation that has been, it has elements from Denmark can more and then there are also some elements that have come to later. I am very pleased with the changes contained in this draft law, because of course we must put in place a political framework for the purchase of 380 billion. kr. annual. I am pleased that the draft law here allows us to provide a framework for tenders, in other words, in relation to the rules for tenders, where it is appropriate to have apprentices. I think it is quite natural that these rules should be set up, and I am glad that we have jointly reached that agreement. It is quite right that we demand that when the public sector offers something that you as a private company want to offer, you also meet basic requirements where appropriate in terms of taking apprentices and helping to ensure that in the future we also have all the talented hands and heads that we need here in our country. Then I guess I'm not so surprisingly really, really happy that we're going to start making a purchase green or explaining model. The principles of this model are some that we know from the partial or explaining principle, which has been made for the benefit of the smaller bidders and small businesses. I think that makes really, really sense to get into the green here. The procurement law is a huge muscle in our economy, and it is also a muscle that we need to have to lift green now. I believe that we are taking a small step in the green area in relation to green procurement, but I think that is a very, very good step in the right direction. I can also see that there are probably things we can file to and look at together. There are a lot of things that I think we can look at in the future too in relation to the procurement law, and I look forward to doing so too, but I think it is particularly important to remember that this bill, at least in my optics, is a very good step in a very good direction, and that is why Radicals also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517201306	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Rune Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517201321	In the Enhedslisten, we believe that this bill will lead to improvements in the procurement law, which is welcome. We do not want to hide the fact that there are a number of areas where we would have liked to see the legislative proposal go further than the proposed one. That is, for example, the case. It is certainly positive that the draft law now mentions the possibility of curbing companies in tax havens, but the proposal does not go far enough. As is also mentioned in the consultation answers, the tax havens will probably not have the desired effect, as it is formulated by the fact that companies that have established the claim should instead be seen on the ownership of the companies, i.e. on both direct and indirect owners, as it says, and whether they have links to tax havens. We should also draw up a more restrictive tax havens in Denmark instead of hanging all efforts on the EU's blacklist, as it is now almost useless and is without a large number of notorious tax havens. It is necessary if we really want to get rid of tax havens. If I am to focus briefly on some of the positive elements, we would like to congratulate the Enhedslisten on the need for training and the use of apprentices in companies. This is a clear step in the right direction. However, we would have liked the demand for social clauses in contracts to have been further strengthened in the proposal put forward so that we can ensure that only companies with Danish pay and working conditions can solve tasks for public authorities, and here working clauses with chain liability are important. Against this background and with these comments, we are in favour of the proposal, but we believe that the proposal could be stricter on several points. That is why, in the course of the committee procedure, we will look at the possibilities for a political majority to make further improvements and tightens, and in this context we will also consider the possibility of tabling amendments that could make the law better than the proposal that lies here. This is a proposal where, as I have said, there is progress and which we are therefore in favour of, but where we think it is interesting to look at whether it cannot become a law that can be even more than the legislative proposal that is here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517201542	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund and to Enhedslisten. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517201552	Thank you for the floor. I'm a little disappointed. I had hoped that the procurement law would finally be optimized. I do not think that is the case all around. Perhaps it is because the proposal has such a fundamentally wrong approach to optimizing it is prohibited and there are strict rules and more penalties. That may be very good, but you could also drive the positive angle where we are talking about creating more innovation and getting more for the money. It's a way of thinking that moves more. Perhaps it is because the law is also rushed through a bit, despite the fact that the public procurement of 380 billion. kr. a year otherwise is a great motivation to constantly and always try to do better and do it well and thoroughly, based on knowledge and dialogue. Perhaps that is exactly why the alignment of the law is somewhat disappointing, that is, that the government has not necessarily listened and has not chosen to include several of the improvement proposals that all stakeholders have otherwise made input to. We are talking about the contracting side as well as the contracting side. We are talking about joint suggestions for input from Dansk Erhverv, Dansk Industri, Dansk Byggeri, SMEDdanmark, IKA, the association of public purchasers, the Ministry of Defence's Board of Equipment and Procurement, Danske Regioner, KL og SKI. I can see that a little has been listened to. Hopefully this will also be the place to listen. I have chosen to confine myself to three areas which cannot, must or should not be ignored. The first point I want to make is that of training. Conservatives, of course, certainly support an active apprenticeship and pupil policy, but it is hardly the most effective way to regulate through a procurement law. It is also the case that I am listening to the fact that there is uncertainty about the effects of the draft law, which introduces a new proposal for requirements for people in training. In fact, for example, estimates. Danish Industry, that there is a risk that the bill will actually lead to fewer apprentices on public projects, as the bill will create considerable uncertainty and bureaucracy for practitioners who have to work with the rules. The KL has also expressed concern about this. The political ambition is to ensure more apprentices on public projects, but here we are also talking about people in training. Has there been a dialogue with the social partners on this? How does the Minister envisage the definition of training? Regulation even takes place at the notice level, but the notice has not been issued to the consultation parties. How does the Minister ensure that the announcement responds to the many concerns? Crazy indeed, it is also that the change should enter into force very soon. Both contracting entities and tenderers problematize in their consultation responses a marked increase in red tape and that there is no clarity about the content of the notice. It may also be a little difficult to see for itself that the entire Supply Denmark should be ready to meet some new demands in a very few weeks' time. The second issue I would like to address is the proposed electronic procurement solution. Conservatives certainly support the need to be easier and less burdensome to offer and bid for public tasks. However, it is essential that work is based on free and open competition based on the existing market solutions. Here, however, it is proposed that a specific electronic solution be drawn up for the release of tenders which contracting entities will be obliged to use as a starting point. However, it is unclear how the proposal is expected to be implemented. Take it, for example. based on the relevant systems and solutions that are already in use today in the market among contracting entities and tenderers, or are we again in some insourcing? How can the proposal survive when none of the country's largest business organisations want the proposed electronic procurement system, which it is believed will not be the opportunity for SMEs to participate in invitations to tender. Finally, why should this system be compulsory for contracting entities to use when the regions, as significant contracting entities, have clearly stated that they do not want to use an electronic tendering system other than that used today? The third area I want to raise is the compulsory exclusion of companies. I will, because the draft law means that exclusion on the basis of the contracting entity's doubts about the integrity of the tenderer is made compulsory. This means that all contracting entities shall exclude tenderers if the contracting entity considers that, in the course of its business, the tenderer has committed serious negligence which casts doubt on the integrity of the undertaking. The integrity of the company? Well, how do you estimate that? How will the contracting entity assess this? This is far too unclear a practice and therefore poses a significant risk to the legal certainty of companies. It is a lack of clarity which could have very major economic consequences if we were to be excluded from public procurement for a number of years. That part has, of course, received a lot of criticism from both sides of the table. Why hasn't it been taken off the table? I just don't understand why the bill is that when business organisations, on the one hand, and the defence, the Danish Energy Agency and the Danish Regions, on the other hand, all argue against the grounds of exclusion being compulsory, then ends up like this. The Minister must not ignore the criticism of such important contracting entities as business organisations, in other words those who use the law. I have always believed that the most important principles on which the Procurement Act is based are to ensure equal treatment, transparency and proportionality. This is suddenly a matter of contracting entities' discretion. I would like to have a problem with that, and I have many more questions on that. But time is ticking. What I want to conclude by saying is that I really hope that the Minister will not just sit back on his majority for the agreement which is the basis of the draft law. I hope that the Minister will reconsider and I hope that the Minister will provide some answers which will enable me to be more positive as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517202115	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks. Then I can welcome the next rapporteur and that is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517202131	Thank you. The Procurement Act, which we are discussing today, is part of Denmark's more I... which we in the Danish People's Party are also part of. There are many considerations to take into account in the procurement law, and it has been really, really difficult. I shall be the first to acknowledge that. I believe that the other parties to the agreement may not recognise that the Danish People's Party's focus in the amendment of the procurement law has been on SMEs and, in particular, on companies in the province and on how we could include them as much as possible in the procurement law, because the current legislation does not provide the figures to their advantage. Companies with fewer than 50 employees won only 20% in 2018. of the contract value of the public procurement procedures. We can and must do better. Vocational training lacks pupils. One of the reasons for this is the lack of apprenticeships. That is why we in the Danish People's Party welcome the apprenticeship clauses in the contract, so that we show that we support the jobs that take responsibility for having people in training. The funny thing about this is that we are also helping to promote SMEs here, because it is mainly SMEs that take in apprentices. Somewhere it is unreasonable for small businesses to take in an apprentice and take in all the strings that come because of all the mistakes made in an apprenticeship process, and then when you have trained an apprentice, the big companies come and swallow them because they may be able to offer 20 kroner. more an hour than a master can. With the agreement, we have also made it more difficult to be a shady company registered abroad by excluding companies on the EU's list of non-cooperating tax jurisdictions. The proposal is far from perfect, especially when it comes to abolishing the possibility of seeing tenders after the deadline. Of course, they could be anonymized. It is important and fair that a company can quickly see whether they are in consideration or not, so that they can move on with their work instead of standing there and treading water. So that part I think we can do better. In the Danish People's Party we look forward to the further examination of the proposal by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517202345	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. All the rapporteurs from the parties who wanted to contribute to this debate have thus spoken. And then I can give the floor to the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517202402	Thank you so much. As has been said sometimes, it is 380 billion. kr., which we buy for each year in the public sector. It is clear that this is a great deal of money. They must be used wisely, they must be used responsibly. This is also why the framework for public procurement must function as effectively as possible. That means, among other things, that... good processes that make it attractive for both large and small companies to offer the tasks that we in the public sector provide and, ultimately, also to be able to deliver the goods and services. But the framework must also support our common society, for example. social considerations, environmental considerations, the need for innovation, the need for responsible enterprise. That is the framework we want to secure with this law that we are discussing today. Overall, four main elements of the draft law can be identified. Firstly, we now have an actual apprenticeship requirement or a training requirement for all relevant public contracts, as it also states. It is a requirement that can be met, among other things. by having an apprentice as we know it here in Denmark. I have to say that I think it is quite reasonable that when you sell something to the public community, you should also be able to take responsibility for training the workforce of the future. So the first part is about apprenticeship requirements. Secondly, the draft law provides a legal basis for us to lay down rules for buying green or explaining in the future, as the Radical Left also pointed out in the rapporteur's speech. In all its simplicity, it is a question of either the public contracting authority making green demands in its tender and thus buying green, or else explaining why it is not possible to do so when you make your tender. In this way, we are helping to push in a green direction still in a way that can be lived up to and that can be met by both the contracting entity and also by the bidder. Thirdly, the proposal here gives strengthened opportunities to exclude companies from tendering if they do not comply with the rules. This is both in the form of longer periods of exclusion and also the possibility of excluding companies established in tax havens. These are some very good steps, and they are really important steps on the way to ensuring that the stumbled vessels do not win the tasks. However, I would like to take up the thread of the SF rapporteur and say that I want us to go further than what the draft law here points to. Something must be done, including at EU level. That is why I am already in contact with the European Commission on how we can exclude companies that are also indirectly owned in tax havens from public procurement. It is a subject in which we need to engage more actively in finding out what the possibilities are. That is why contact has already been established with the Commission, and it is my ambition that we should find a useful way forward so that we can also exclude the indirectly owned companies from tax havens. I would also like to say that, in relation to the due diligence directive, which has come a step further now, but which needs to be completed, and a final text needs to be drawn up, we need to make all the balances right. I think it is obvious that we are looking at the consequences that should have for our procurement laws in Denmark when the due diligence directive has come into place. I would also like to give that indication from the platform, that is to say that this is one of the things we need to follow up when the due diligence directive is in place. Fourthly, the draft law contains a number of proposals which make life easier for both contracting entities and tenderers. There is no doubt about that, I think everyone who has sat and drilled into the material here until today knows that it is complex matter to work with the procurement law. Therefore, we also have a task in that we simplify where we can. We can do that, for example. do by means of a reliable assessment unit, better access to flexible procurement forms and new digital solutions. This will all create better conditions, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises' access to the public procurement market, and it will simplify the access to public procurement procedures for all enterprises. So all in all, the bill here creates a better framework for companies to deliver goods and services to the public; a better framework for catching the stumbled vessels that do not comply with the rules and that run away from their responsibilities; but also a better framework for all companies to participate on an equal footing without too much trouble in everyday life. In the end, the public sector will receive the best offer from companies, both practically, economically and socially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517202917	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister and it is from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517202920	Thank you. I would just like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister at this late hour about the latest figures in terms of providing more apprenticeships, and that the figures from 2018 to 2020 show that there has been a decrease in the public sector apprenticeships of 6%, whereas there has been an increase in the private sector by 3%. I know that this is about public procurement and so on, but is there not something that, frankly, screams a little to the sky here, so that as well as fighting to create more apprenticeships in the private sector and here putting increased pressure on, the figures in the public sector simply go the completely opposite way?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203018	There is no doubt that we need more apprenticeships in Denmark, and we can do this by making apprenticeship requirements, as we do in the procurement law here, and I am not a second in doubt, although I do not know the figures entirely on my fingers, that there is also potential in the public sector. I think that is indisputable, but I do not think it should stand in the way of us making apprenticeship clauses in our tender documents, where the public authorities offer the task to the private sector. So that there is also a lack of apprenticeships in the public sector in general, I do not think we should stand in the way of doing anything here. And it is also true that for all tenders, where relevant, it must also make sense in the specific supply, but there is no doubt that it will lead to more apprenticeships, that it will now be compulsory to make an apprenticeship requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203112	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203114	Thank you. I'm gonna take the fight on over by the Minister for Children and Education, who also has to be on the field in this area. But it is perhaps just such a curiosity: how is it actually decided whether something is green? Now I have to admit that I have not read this pile of papers, because I was supposed to give the rapporteur's speech on Mr. Simpson's report. Torsten Schack Pedersen's name, but will there be any kind of guidance on what is green?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203148	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203149	There is no doubt, of course, that there must be a clear guide to this and that an announcement must be made which translates this purchase green or explaining principle, and there we must of course find the right lines in it. It could, for example, be done. be a CO2 we have to decide on that when we have to finalize the announcement, but it might well be something I could see for myself could be a direction of battle in purchasing green or explaining. However, we will not be much helped if neither the contracting entity nor the tenderer understands what this is about, and I therefore also fully agree that there is a need for clear communication about what this may involve.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203233	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203236	Thank you, Minister. I asked a number of questions which, of course, I will also send in writing so that we can move on. But would the Minister like to convene parties that are not part of the agreement and engage in a dialogue on some of the points of criticism which, among other things, are: Has left here tonight?
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203253	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203254	I am always so arranged that I think it is a good idea to have a dialogue. Of course, I have great respect for the fact that there is a contract circle and there can be no new procurement law or amendments with a composition of parties in which that contract circle is not included. However, it may well be that some of the things that have been raised can be dealt with jointly with that area of agreement, and I will certainly not reject that. I left, for example. notice that earlier the rapporteur of the Left asked this question: what about all these powers? And how is it to be dealt with now that a number of announcements have to be made that will give effect to it? It's usually a minister who makes it. Could we find a way where this is something that we, who vote for the law, look at together, or is there some kind of model through it? I don't want to deny that at all, and I love to drink coffee with both Mona Juul and Anni Matthiesen, so there can easily be an opportunity to do this. But it is also just to say clearly to my group that it will of course not be something that will not involve them too, and it is the gangs that are around that track that can be played on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203403	Then there is a brief comment on Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203407	Thank you. Although we didn't quite achieve our goal in relation to what we in the SF had wanted, I am very happy with the Minister's approach and will hear specifically in relation to this discussion about tax havens and being owned indirectly etc. and to be able to bring the EU blacklist into play, and now the Minister says that he has made contact with the Commission, and I am very pleased about that. For now this discussion has been going on for almost two years, and I think it will soon have to come to an end. Can the Minister say anything more concrete about whether there will be a meeting or what form this will take? For there has been a written correspondence between the Treasury and the Commission for almost two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203451	I would like to start by recognising the SF not only for having travelled but also persistently held to the debate on tax havens, and I think I dare say that there has hardly been a meeting on various subjects, even on the procurement law, for which Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen has not raised the issue of indirect ownership and tax havens, and I would like to acknowledge that. Because this is an important agenda. Right now, as has also been mentioned, a dialogue is under way between the Ministry of Taxation and the European Commission on the slightly broader aim of the tax havens. What I can and would like to get involved in is what concerns procurement and, as I also say in my speech, I think we should look at how far we can go in order to exclude those who are also indirectly owned from a tax haven. I have written a letter to the Commissioner concerned asking him and I to have a meeting on the matter so that it will also be raised to the political level in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203552	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief remarks to the Minister As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203613	For this election the following electoral groups have been notified: A group of 98 members: Social Democracy, Socialist People's Party, Radical Left, Enhedslisten, Free Green, Alternative, Inuit Ataqatigiit (IA), Siumut (SIU) and Javnaðarflokkurin (JF) a group of 80 members: Left, Conservative People's Party, Danish People's Party, New Civil, Liberal Alliance, Christian Democrats, Sambandsflokkurin (SP), Karina Adsbøl (UFG), Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG), Lise Bech (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG), Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Naser Khader (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG). The groups have appointed the following members: State auditors: 1. Leif Lahn Jensen (S) 2. Holger K. Nielsen (appointed by SF) 3. Mikkel Irminger Sarbo (designated by RV) 4. Troels Lund Poulsen (V) 5. Sophie Løhde (V) 6. Mette Abildgaard (KF) Substitutes: 1. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen (S) 2. Vagn Kjær-Hansen (designated by SF) 3. Svend Thorhauge (designated by RV) 4. Thomas Danielsen (V) 5. Lars Christian Lilleholt (V) 6. Mai Mercado (KF) The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220517203736	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 18 May 2022, kl. 10:00. I will refer to the agenda which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
