ParlaMint-DK_20220602082004	The meeting is open. I have to tell you that we have to postpone the sitting for 10 minutes. So that means that the sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 8.30.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083001	The sitting is resumed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083016	Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083025	Thank you for that, President. I'm a nordicist, and that's why I think it's a very special day today. I'm really happy. When we stand in this Chamber, we say many times: this is historic. That is something that can be bugged, but today we have a resolution which is really historic. We must consider that Sweden and Finland can be incorporated into the North Atlantic Treaty, better known as NATO. Both Sweden and Finland have officially applied for NATO membership. Precisely on the day when the Finnish President and Prime Minister announced that they wanted to join NATO, I was in the Finnish Parliament. It was a very, very special situation, but there was a great deal of cohesion in doing so. I also had my Swedish colleague Gunilla Carlsson with me, and of course she was curious whether they would accept NATO membership if they were to have their meeting a few days later. Fortunately, they did. On 18 May, they both announced that they wanted membership, and here Jens Stoltenberg says so. We are in a completely new and radically aggravated security policy situation in Europe. Of course, we have responded to this in the Nordic countries too. With Putin's brutal attack on Ukraine, we all woke up to a new reality on February 24 this year. That is why I am both pleased and proud that both Sweden and Finland have decided to become part of NATO. For the best response to Putin's attack is that we move closer with our allies. This is true in NATO, but it is certainly true in the North too. I am pleased that we are one of the first countries to ratify and welcome our Nordic neighbours to NATO. It sends a strong signal to our Nordic friends. Finnish and Swedish membership will constitute NATO even stronger and perhaps secure Nordic unification. Together we can have a stronger Nordic voice in security policy. It is a joyful news for both the Finns and the Swedes and for us here in Denmark, but also for Nordic co-operation and for our common security in the Nordic countries, Europe and the world. On the Danish side, of course, we must support the rapid accession of Finland and Sweden to NATO. This means a great deal to the Swedes and the Finns, I know that the other Nordic countries support them and will help to promote the accession procedure. We must do everything we can to ensure the possible ratification process and, of course, we call on all countries to back up and not delay the process. Denmark has also given Sweden and Finland a security guarantee in common with Norway and Iceland during the accession process, for it is in landmark moments like this that Nordic co-operation shows its value and strength in earnest. The Nordic community is unique. There was a time when we killed each other; we fought each other in many Nordic wars. But since the great Nordic war, which had a peace agreement in 1721, that is, over 300 years ago, we have lived peacefully side by side. We trust each other, we share deep historical roots, close linguistic links and cultural ties, and we have fundamental common values. This community of values is invaluable. This is the foundation of our security policy cooperation in the Nordic region, which can only become even closer and stronger in the future. Swedish and Finnish membership of NATO and its support are a major and important step towards strengthened defence cooperation in the Nordic region. By uniting, we can take a more leading role and promote our common values in NATO, both in the Baltic Sea region, in Europe and in the rest of the world. Today is my birthday, and I am not saying that to be celebrated, but because I actually feel that in my 53 years I have received no better birthday present than to ratify the membership of NATO by the Nordic countries. So thank you for the floor. The Social Democrats naturally support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083455	Happy birthday. Annette Lind Thank you). There is one brief comment. Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083504	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech, and also very happy birthday. There is no doubt that when Sweden and Finland express a desire to join NATO, that is not something we oppose. At the same time, however, it is also clear that it has some security implications. That is why I just want to hear from the Socialists what this will have to do with the whole security situation in the Baltic Sea, that is to say the general threat picture both to the Scandinavian countries, but also to Denmark, and what the position of the Socialists is actually to the wish expressed by Sweden to have a reservation regarding the posting of nuclear weapons on Swedish territory and the same with regard to foreign troops on permanent bases in Sweden. What is the position of the Social Democrats on Sweden's wishes?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083559	I just feel that Nordic co-operation is being strengthened, and so is security in the Baltic Sea region. I feel that clearly. After all, we have had and now have cooperation in NORDEFCO. I expect that cooperation to continue, so that we still have the same close ties. In relation to nuclear weapons, we have the same position as the Swedes, namely that we did not want nuclear weapons on Danish soil, and that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083625	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083629	I am glad to hear that, in other words, the Socialists will support the Swedish wish. But when it comes to the threat to the Scandinavian countries, also in relation to Denmark, I just need to hear what the rapporteur is basing it on. Because, as I see it, there is no immediate threat assessment in relation to what this has to do with consequences, and it is always very nice to know when you make a decision, i.e. whether it is something that has a secondary implication in relation to the threat assessment in the Baltic Sea, also in relation to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083657	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, we share common values in the Nordic countries, which is why I am 100% sure that, in closer cooperation within NATO, we will also have common values that we will share together. I also said in my rapporteur's speech that I feel that we will be a stronger Nordic country when we stand together. Because we have to prove our worth now in NATO as a good region. After all, in the Nordic Council and in the Nordic Council of Ministers, we have an ambition to be the most integrated and greenest region in the world. We have to live up to that, and I know that Enhedslisten will also think that is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083731	Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083734	Thank you very much to Mrs Annette Lind and congratulations on everything. After all, speaking time is limited, and it is clear that everything cannot be achieved, and so I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mrs Annette Lind a question about the whole discussion that has been going on about Turkey's blocking. For it is clear that Turkey has made some very concrete demands that they have been fleshed out along the way. These are demands that will attack human rights standards in Europe; they are demands that will weaken the fight against the Islamic State. What is the position of the Socialist rapporteur on the demands made by Turkey?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083819	Thank you for that and thank you for your congratulations. I remember a June 2nd and my birthday when it didn't go as well with a yes as it did yesterday. As far as Turkey is concerned, our Foreign Minister has raised the matter with Erdogan, or at least with the Foreign Minister in Turkey, and that is why I believe that the Foreign Minister has guaranteed that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083841	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083844	Full respect for the fact that the Danish Foreign Minister has taken it up with the Turkish Foreign Minister, but it is not the case that this has led Turkey to give up its demands; on the contrary, they were reinforced only yesterday. And that is why I believe that the people would like to hear a clear message from the Social Democrats that under no circumstances can Turkey be allowed to reduce human rights standards in the rest of Europe. It is bad enough what they are doing in Turkey and that they should not have the opportunity to weaken the fight against the Islamic State, which is not over at all. There I think it would be good to have a clear message from the Social Democrat Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083922	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083925	But, of course, we stand firm on our human rights. We have made a value compass in relation to the foreign policy situation throughout the world. After all, we have a complex world right now where we have to decide from time to time. We do not relax any of our human rights, and that is why we also have a clear voice in the Foreign Minister in relation to this. We want a rapid ratification process, and I hope and believe that we will, and Stoltenberg believes in it, and that is why we are among the first to ratify it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602083957	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we move on to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602084011	Well, it's actually a really, really good day, because you can turn it around and like use the historical glasses and say that now the Nordic countries are back together. We are united in a common basis of values, in a common defence against the aggressiveness of Putin, which, unfortunately, is now quite clear to everyone. I can therefore turn it around and say that I do not believe that Putin had imagined in his wildest thoughts what has actually happened since his violent aggressiveness, namely that we are actually gathering more and more together. We'll back each other up. Yes, even here we have never actually had a more NATO-positive parliament than what we have today. So you can safely say that something has really happened in a few months. That is why I am very, very pleased that our geographical neighbours, but also our neighbours in a community of values, now decide to apply for membership of NATO. And we must, of course, stand by with open door and red carpet and make sure to do everything we can to make that transition as smooth as possible. Because that's exactly what can help fight Putin. It's isolation, and it's unity among the rest of us. We have seen how and how Putin has tried the opposite over the years. After all, we have seen how Putin has one interest: to destabilise the West and to make us go against each other by force and force. And that is why I am really, really, a happy foreign rapporteur today, where I can see that the opposite is happening. Does this mean that the world will only be perfect when Sweden and Finland join NATO? No, of course not. And that is why we must also recognise that we are unfortunately in a cold war version 2.0, where Putin seriously believes that he should help determine what is happening in other countries, including the Nordic countries. That is why it is really true that Finland and Sweden say that during the period that remains until they become full NATO members, they need protection. Because we are up against a Putin who is actually saying that those countries must not be allowed to decide for themselves what they are going to do. Yes, he has even gone so far that he will decide what Denmark is doing in relation to Bornholm. So we are up against a terrible man who is actually trying to destabilise with violence and power. And that is why I am very pleased that there are a large number of countries, including Denmark, which now also support Sweden and Finland's security guarantee, so that we already protect them now, if the unthinkable should happen, but also just as much to send out the very, very correct signal. Then, of course, it is also important to bear in mind that, of course, there must not be a NATO country which is beginning to put so many obstacles in its way that it will be impossible to include these two neighbours. That is why I am very pleased that we are united in Denmark and simply saying that of course we should have them as a member and, of course, it should be without conditions on the part of any other NATO countries. So all in all it is a really, really big day today, and I am delighted that it seems that a unanimous Parliament decides that our neighbours are now coming with us and that we are really together in the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602084353	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we go further in the line with Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602084406	Dear Swedes, dear Finns and ladies and gentlemen of the Finnish Eduskunta and the Swedish Riksdag: A few months ago, none of us had the imagination to imagine that we would be dealing with a proposal like this in the Folketing. We now have the opportunity to show the solidarity with our Swedish and Finnish neighbours that they need, because it is in difficult times that you get to know your true friends. After all, these are historic decisions that we are facing, and with the enlargement of NATO, Putin has so much set in motion a movement that he had not imagined. But when authoritarian regimes begin to eat from their neighbouring countries, democratic countries must react. In the middle of a dark time, Sweden and Finland still make the sun shine. We must receive Sweden and Finland with open arms, because it is societies that are similar to ours, and NATO's foreign and security policy line is getting a boost in the right direction. A stronger European commitment to NATO is necessary when it is obvious that, in the years to come, the United States is increasingly oriented towards the Pacific Ocean and Asia. It will be good for everyone except Russia and China. With the two new Member States, Nordic thinking is stronger and the Nordic Region is now united in a defence alliance. Perhaps Sweden in particular is strengthening the line that I expect Denmark to stick to, namely the continued rejection of nuclear weapons and permanent foreign bases. Sweden and Finland have, of course, taken the dramatic decision to apply for membership of NATO in an unimaginably short time. Finland, which has been so afraid of Russia throughout its modern life as a state that they have not dared to approach NATO, is now so afraid that they dare not. So when Putin sees the Finnish application as a threat to Russia, we just have to note that no one has a greater responsibility for Finland's application than Putin himself. Sweden, which since the Napoleonic Wars has almost made neutrality part of the country's identity, is now so afraid of the Russian bear that they dare not be neutral anymore. So when Putin sees the Swedish application as a threat to Russia, we just have to note that no one has a greater responsibility for Sweden's application than Putin himself. For SF, Nordic co-operation has always been central, both in terms of regional balances, but also in terms of the community that we represent. Finally, the Nordic countries can be brought together for a common security policy. With the Danish 'yes' to the EU yesterday, all the Nordic countries are now participating in the pan-European defence, and if Finland and Sweden join NATO, we are also united there. The SF's hope is that the Nordic countries in the EU as well as NATO can continue to be a common voice that insists on a broad security policy, which also increases the focus on humanitarian efforts and democratic building. Turkey's President, Recep Erdogan, acts as a frivolous bazaar trader who will now take advantage of the situation in his own domestic political struggle to maintain power in the elections that will soon come. Everything we know about Erdogan has been constant attempts to strangle the opposition in his own country with weapons, with prison, with war, but we must not give in to his fight against the Kurds, the Kurds, our allies, who were at the forefront of the fight against the ultimate evil of the Islamic State. So when Erdogan exploits the situation, where two democratically functioning countries seek shelter from their neighbours, to hit the Kurds, we must stand firm. Denmark must prove itself to be the true friend of Sweden and Finland. The SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602084807	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we move on to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602084819	Thank you very much, President. These are some wild days in Danish politics. These are also some wild days in Nordic and European politics. Yesterday, two thirds of the Danish population chose to vote in favour of Denmark joining the EU's defence and security policy cooperation, and today we are debating a resolution in which we support the participation of Finland and Sweden in NATO. Of course, the Radical Left supports this. Both what happened yesterday and what we are going to vote on today are joyful events that, in our opinion, will strengthen the security and stability of Denmark, will strengthen Nordic co-operation and will strengthen European cooperation. But there is no reason to hide the fact that this is happening on an extremely tragic basis, that the accession of Finland and Sweden does not in itself create peace in Ukraine, and that with the developments and small earthquakes taking place throughout the European security architecture, there will also be new demands and difficult demands for Denmark. When there are earthquakes in our geopolitics, it is difficult to know how it all lands when the earthquake is over, but there are the contours of four tracks which I think will affect both Danish and Nordic security policy. One, of course, is the Baltic Sea, which several people have mentioned. This will increase tension in the Baltic region; it cannot be avoided by a further 1,500 km of border between the North and Russia. Secondly, we will face major security policy choices when it comes to Eastern European countries that are not yet part of the European Union: Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova and the Balkans. What status do they need? What status should they be given in the short and long term in order to ensure their democratic and peaceful development? Here, in the Radical Left, we believe that we need to show greater openness than we have been prepared for so far, but of course based on the Copenhagen criteria. Thirdly, there is now a huge focus on the East, but that does not change the fact that when we look south, the challenges are also towering. The war in Syria continues to rage. So is the Yemeni one. In northern Africa there are serious security problems and, in the longer term, migration that can run out of control if we do not create the development and economic stability that the continent deserves. When I mention the latter, it is of course because it is increasingly clear with the NATO summit in a month's time that the United States expects us to take greater responsibility for what is going on south of Europe, together with our European new allies. And it will also make demands on Denmark and on the other Nordic countries, both under the auspices of NATO, but especially under the auspices of European defence cooperation. Finally, where Denmark may have the biggest role, the Arctic. What will be the implications? We have a huge interest in trying, together with the rest of the Kingdom community, to continue the tradition of low-voltage, but also the tradition of sustainable development for the benefit of the people of the Arctic. It hasn't gotten any easier. Nor will it be easier with the decision we are making today, but we are more and more fighting for it. So with a large and full-scale yes, like all the other speakers, we also think that Turkey's handling of these applications is unacceptable, and we assume and hope that it is a matter of time before a diplomatic solution is found so that the whole of NATO can take wholeheartedly against the two new Nordic members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602085242	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602085246	Thank you. Now Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentioned the elephant in the room and expressed his hope that a diplomatic solution would quickly be found. So, in the Enhedslisten, we have never been among those who believed that permissiveness to dictators or authoritarian regimes would lead to something good. That applies to Putin and his gas, and that applies to Turkey as well. Nevertheless, we have to note that Turkey is a long way off, and when you give in to such a person as Erdogan, he gets an appetite for more, and he has certainly got that. What is it that does that, sir? Martin Lidegaard believes that there can be a diplomatic solution that does not undermine democratic rights in Europe and does not mean strengthening the Islamic State?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602085332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602085336	It's not easy, I'd like to admit that, sir. Søren Søndergaard, but I am basing my hope on the fact that behind Mr. Søndergaard... Erdogan's violent nationalist rhetoric conceals some harsh geopolitical realities, and one of them is that Turkey has every interest in staying in NATO and ensuring its own security and hence its own relationship with the allies of NATO. So, on the basis of any rational geopolitical logic, Turkey, like any other NATO country, should support an application without any conditions, as long as the countries comply with the standards they have to NATO, and that is what they are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602085420	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602085424	It is possible that logic comes through. It can be said that in other contexts the logic has not fully established itself in relation to the sole ruler of Turkey. In other words, there should also be logic in having established peace in Turkey in relation to the Dolmabache agreement in 2015, which was an agreement with both the Kurds and the PKK that could have brought about peace. It chose Erdogan so as to ignore for purely partisan, electoral reasons. So there are enough things involved here that do not follow a strict logic. But shall I understand it in the sense that Mr. Martin Lidegaard says that there are no amnesty in relation to Erdogan in terms of democracy and in terms of the fight against Islamic State?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602085502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602085503	In other words, it is not the Danish Parliament that is going to conduct the negotiations with Turkey, but Sweden and Finland, and I hear clearly that Sweden and Finland do not intend to compromise on their democratic principles, and I would certainly expect them to stand firm on that. Having said that, I would like to admit that it is not always the case that nationalists act rationally. However, if there is a rationale, it is in relation to their own popularity in their own people, and I would estimate that on that parameter too Turkey has every interest in supporting the accession of Finland and Sweden.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602085540	We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602085547	Thank you for that, President. Not a day goes by without giving the besieged Ukrainians a crying thought. Tens of thousands have been killed, men, women and children. Millions have been displaced, millions are still stuck in conflict zones, and large parts of Ukraine have been destroyed. It will cost billions and many years to rebuild the country. Restoring a minimum of security and security may cost a generation. We should remind ourselves daily that helping Ukraine in this difficult time, defending Ukraine's freedom, sovereignty and integrity is the primary task that lies ahead of us. We must not forget that. But there is no doubt either that Russia's criminal, illegitimate assault in Ukraine has made us all more insecure, not least in Eastern Europe. What's the maniac planning next time in Moscow? The war has seriously overturned the security policy balance on the continent. The agenda is characterised by armament. NATO's collective defence is back on the agenda. Sweden and Finland's request for NATO membership is an example of a considerable expansion of the alliance. In other words, it is clear that besides being a monstrous crime, Russia's war is also an error position with built-in recoil, a recoil that has jumped right back in the face of Putin. Let's hope that lesson falls behind the walls of the Kremlin. Now it is no secret that the Enhedslisten is a NATO critical party. We have been critical of NATO's outreach militarism in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. We will continue to follow critically. In fact, we feel that this is our responsibility. We believe, in full agreement with our Swedish sister party on the Swedish left, that Sweden's freedom of alliance has served the country's security well both in peacetime and under increased tension. We also find it sad that 200 years of Swedish neutrality and freedom of alliance are now being brought to an end. We would like a real referendum to be held. We also agree with the Swedish Environmental Party in their assessment that the freedom of alliance has allowed Sweden to enter into dialogue, act as a peace broker and thus contribute to détente around the world, not least in our own neighbourhood. Such freedoms will be put under pressure within the NATO framework. In short, we have some fears. We fear the risk that NATO enlargement will increase tensions, for example. Baltic Sea. We fear that it will increase mutual armament and cement the line of conflict between Scandinavia and Russia for decades to come. We are also very concerned that the demands made by the Turkish despot, Erdogan, undoubtedly take the opportunity to try to push through are being met. I would therefore also like to ask the Minister to confirm that the government will of course return to the Folketing if, in the course of the further accession negotiations, demands are met by the Erdogan regime, which violates human rights or in any way weakens the struggle of our Kurdish allies against the Islamic State and other Islamist groups. But today we are voting in favour of Danish recognition of Sweden and Finland's membership. It breaks with many years of politics where the Enhedslisten has been opposed to NATO's east enlargements. Today, however, we find ourselves in a tighter situation. Of course, we will respect the decision taken by Sweden and Finland on behalf of their safety. It will not be right for us, who have been a member of the alliance since 1949, to stand in the way of our Nordic neighbours' choices. And if we do not just abstain, it is because it is crucial in this acute situation to send a clear signal to Putin that we do not hesitate; that he cannot prevent Sweden and Finland from joining NATO. Furthermore, we have a slender and possibly naive hope that Finnish and Swedish membership can contribute to a more peaceful NATO for the future, a more peaceful alliance that focuses on core tasks of collective territorial defence on the continent and, above all, on fewer war missions. That is why the Enhedslisten can support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602090030	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602090044	Thank you, President. First of all, congratulations to Annette Lind. We must not forget that. So I would say that I am really, really glad that we are already discussing Denmark's provisional accession to Sweden and Finland to NATO. This is, of course, a huge decision, as several have said, not only for NATO, but also for security here in the Nordic countries. And thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for bringing the process forward so that the Danish view is already clear. In my view, things are actually connected, and many of the same allies and partners we have in NATO and in the European Union are, of course, even more so when Sweden and Finland join NATO and Denmark in EU defence cooperation. I would also like to say that this is a courageous decision by Sweden and Finland. Both countries have been in direct war with Russia in the past, in Finland, not so terribly many years ago, but the changed world picture speaks its clear language, and we in Europe simply need to move closer together. As several speakers have said, it is a huge regret that Turkey is slowing down the process of joining the two countries of NATO. It is not so long ago that several NATO countries contributed to the fight against the Islamic State in Syria, thereby contributing to security in Turkey's front garden. So I sincerely hope that this is something that we in Denmark will do everything in our power to stop, that is Turkey's attempt to slow down this process. In any case, with Denmark's decision today, as far as I hear, it is a unanimous decision, and it is fantastic that it is a very clear signal of what we mean. With these words, the Conservative People's Party wholeheartedly supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602090243	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602090256	While Russia's army seems to be swamping on the battlefield, partly humiliated, President Putin faces an equally large desk layer when Sweden and Finland become NATO members as a direct consequence of Russia's invasion. Russia's military leader, as the president himself, had calculated to be able to quickly integrate Ukraine as part of a new Greater Russia, and by far most expected, including foreign military analysts, a rapid Russian victory over the inferior Ukrainian army. But it wasn't supposed to happen that way. The Russians have suffered a great loss of manpower and equipment and have given the impression in places of being a colossal on clay feet. As I said, Russia is now receiving a new defeat of dimensions, the enlargement of NATO to the east. Finland, with more than 1,000 km of border to Russia, has a very large army, 280,000 men under arms and some 400,000 in the reserve in a very short time. However, part of the material is not as developed as one might wish, but it is now available on the Finnish side to make amends and can easily enter NATO. As far as Sweden is concerned, there has been a sharp reduction in defence for years, based on the fact that conventional security policy was a saga only after the fall of the Soviet Union. Russia's invasion of Ukraine has destroyed that illusion. However, even before Russia's invasion, Sweden was in the process of very significant armament and soon meets the two-percent NATO requirements. For me, it has been a boy's dream, and probably for many others too, to experience our five Nordic countries together within NATO, and imagine, now it is no longer a dream, it is happening now and here, and therefore with three more Baltic countries on board. In the given situation, it is important that the Nordic and Baltic countries can join forces and make the Baltic Sea and the Gulf of Bothnia a safe and peaceful sea. So the approach to NATO will not only be an advantage for Sweden and Finland, but will be met with rejoicing throughout the alliance with one sour exception. In the Danish People's Party, we are pleased that with the motion for a resolution the government will be able to approve Sweden and Finland's membership as soon as possible and thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for this initiative. In addition, a warm welcome in the defence alliance to our Nordic brothers and sisters is to be welcomed from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602090540	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We can move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602090550	Sweden and Finland have decided to apply for NATO membership. From a military standpoint, that is a clear 'yes' to Sweden and Finland from the side of the New Citizens' Party, and from a political point of view it is also a clear 'yes' on our part. Scandinavia, including Denmark, is currently in a defence and security dilemma. Politically, we support Sweden and Finland's completely legitimate national right to choose alliances and self-determination. Sweden and Finland will, of course, secure security guarantees from the United States and through NATO, and Finland and Sweden do so because they are well aware that they cannot stand alone in military terms. Without membership of NATO, Sweden and Finland will remain defenceist and militaryly weak in their ability to counter any Russian aggression. The language of power is the only thing that a dictator that Putin understands. There is a need for clear speech. With additional military equipment and support from the United States, Great Britain and others and more boots on the ground, NATO is in full swing with further reinforcement of the Baltic countries. The aim is to send a clear signal to Russia that attacks against the three countries will not be tolerated. There's a time for everything, and it's time. In this acute situation, where NATO and Russia are at odds with each other, the Baltic Sea is not laying the sea of peace. It would be wise for Denmark, in agreement, to welcome Sweden and Finland into NATO, because it will send a strong signal to Russia for a united NATO and for an unambiguous Swedish and Finnish alliance relationship. The West, including Scandinavia, no longer finds us in limitations and demands of a dictator such as Putin, who uses methods that conflict with all international agreements and ways of acting. One thing is certain, and that is that Russia has no respect for the weakness of the West, either militarily or politically, and that speaks for a rapid Swedish and Finnish accession to the NATO community, and we in New Citizens therefore welcome our Nordic brothers to NATO. New citizens can support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602090813	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602090823	Thank you for the floor. The foundation for Denmark's current foreign policy was formulated as far back as 1965 by Per Hækkerup, and this was done in a book called Denmark's foreign policy. In that book Per Hækkerup says that Danish foreign policy has four pillars: NATO is the basis for security; the EU, which was then called the EC, is the basis for Danish economy; the UN is the basis for a rule-based world order; and then the Nordic Region is an extension of the community of values that also holds Denmark together. What is happening today is not, in fact, that Hækkerup's points from 1965 are cancelled, but that the security and value policy dimension merges. Denmark helps to take steps to enable the two members of our Nordic family to become members of NATO. It is a good day for Denmark, and it is a good day for the Nordic countries, and it is also a good day for maintaining the European order that we have now and which Russian imperialism has been trying to change since 24 February and also further back. That is why, of course, we in the Liberal Alliance support the motion for a resolution. Russian imperialism is not news. The basis of Czarism before 1917 was imperialism, and imperialism took over the Communist regime without changing it at all, and after a very short break during Boris Yeltsin revived Vladimir Putin's imperialism when he came to power in the year 2000. So if there is a constant in European politics, unfortunately it is Russian imperialism. This cannot be avoided, and that is ultimately why Sweden and Finland are taking the decision that we are now supporting. Unfortunately, the European approach to Russian imperialism has been something for which there is no Danish word, and that is why I have to use an English, namely an appeal, that is, a permissive adaptation to the increasingly twisted demands of the Russian imperialists. However, since 24 February, and especially since the German Chancellor's reaction three days later, the European approach to imperialism has ended, and that is what is on the verge of this whole resolution. What I would like to take this opportunity to point out here on the platform of the Danish Parliament is that what Russia really wants is for the Potsdam agreement to come into force again, and this is an agreement from 1945 which lapsed in 1991 with Russian approval in connection with the reunification of Germany, but that is obviously unacceptable because what the agreement is about is that Europe is divided into a Russian and a Western sphere of interest, and Finland and, in part, Sweden also falls within the sphere of Russian interest. This is a totally unacceptable way of looking at things today because it upsets a fundamental principle of sovereign States' autonomy. The only thing that can prevent Russia from restoring the balance of power from 1945 is military deterrence. Of course, we should have made that clear a long time ago, but now the recognition is clear. Without it, Russian imperialism will come through, and at least until one day Russia is deputed. That is the hard reality, and that is the light to be seen in Sweden and Finland's request for membership of NATO, and that is why we are taking such an important and far-reaching decision today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602091246	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we can go ahead and give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602091300	Thank you very much for that, President. First of all, a great deal of thanks to all the parties and rapporteurs for the great flexibility and cooperation that has enabled us to proceed quickly with the resolution. If you think a little about the situation we are in, I would say that if someone had said four months ago what we are dealing with here in the Danish Parliament today, I certainly would not have believed my own ears. We are in a fundamentally changed world, and the issue we are dealing with today is a clear example of what the rapporteurs have also mentioned. For more than 70 years, Finland and Sweden have chosen to be outside NATO. They weren't there when we formed NATO. They chose to be non-aligned back in 1949 and not to go with Denmark, Norway and Iceland in shaping NATO. It has now changed, and the new reality of security policy requires a great deal of us all to rethink old policies, to strengthen our tools and to find together in important communities, so also congratulations to the Danes, who yesterday voted clearly in favour of participating fully in European cooperation in the field of security and defence. One can say that for 4 months we have seen one security policy break after another across Europe, and I am proud that Denmark is running and contributing, even when it is difficult. We have contributed substantially to reinforcing NATO's eastern flank in a broad majority here in the Folketing. We have sought equipment and weapons for Ukraine's defence struggle, and now we are also ready to be among the first to welcome Finland and Sweden to NATO, and that is very good. It is absolutely crucial that we have a strong popular government, where the elected representatives stand together to safeguard the security of Denmark and our allies. We take responsibility, and we take the lead. Despite this gloomy context, we today not only mark the strength of our democratic cooperation at home, but also that we can strengthen our cooperation with our closest friends, our Nordic brother people. When our security is threatened, we move even closer together. And it is also here, the day after we have voted in Denmark, that we, as one of the first allies, are getting ready to welcome Sweden and Finland to NATO. It can be said that while on 24 February 2022 the security situation in Europe changed significantly, we are faced here in June 2022 with some already important and crucial decisions for our common security both in Denmark and in the Nordic countries and, incidentally, in the rest of Europe, which are worth noting. With Finnish and Swedish membership, we will have Nordic coherence in NATO. It will strengthen security in the North and it will make NATO even stronger. It is, of course, a decision that we on the part of the government support 100%. That is why we also want Denmark to do everything we can to ensure that their accession takes place as soon as possible, and with today's resolution we want to pave the way for Denmark to ratify as soon as the accession negotiations are concluded and the accession protocols have been signed in NATO. It will send out a rock-solid signal of solidarity with Finland and Sweden, which I know will be greatly appreciated by our Nordic friends and which I also hope will inspire other allies to carry out rapid national processes. So I would also like to thank the Folketing for the debate we have here today and also the consensus that is in the Folketing. I also think it is worthwhile to dwell a little on the fact that there are several people who have said that it is indeed a historic moment, and if you look back to when Denmark chose to join the Atlantic Alliance, join the Atlantic Alliance, as far back as March 1949, on 23 March, there was a discussion in this honour of that question, and it was also stated that peace and democracy are linked. Our ability to defend ourselves against aggression is crucial in the situation we are in, and it can therefore be said that in the situation we are in, Putin can only thank himself for the fact that we are now in a situation where Sweden and Finland are entering NATO. I think it was the Finnish President who said it very well, namely that if you have to find an explanation of why we are standing as we are now, that is, if you want to know who is responsible for it, Putin should look himself in the mirror and then he will find out who is responsible for the situation now. That was something he said or he actually said: if Putin wants to know who is responsible for the change in Finnish NATO policy, he has to look in the mirror. So we are in a truly unique and historic situation here. I would also like to say to you that I see some great perspectives, both with our 'yes' in Denmark yesterday to join us in European cooperation in the field of security and defence, that we can welcome Sweden and Finland to NATO, and that the Nordic region, with our values and our democratic view of society, will also influence security policy in the coming years. I look forward to that, because I am of the clear conviction that it strengthens NATO, that we will have two like-minded Nordic countries with values like Danish in addition to the fact that we already have Norway and Iceland. This means that all five Nordic countries will become NATO countries and that Denmark, together with the other Nordic countries, will also be able to influence EU cooperation on security and defence. It is strong for the North, for our region in the world, and it is necessary in the time we are in, because we must not take international standards and rules for granted. It is a brutal reminder on 24 February that we cannot, not even respect the right as a country to live in peace and security with its neighbours, enshrined in the UN Charter. Russia and Putin have shamed that respect. We cannot take our democracy and our freedom for granted, and therefore we must be ready to invest in it and stand up for it every day, and I can guarantee you that if we do not do so, if we do not invest in our defence and do not invest in our security, the long-term price, both for our values and for our society, will be much, much greater, and therefore I am so happy today as Foreign Minister that with this treatment we can quickly show that Denmark and the Danish Parliament can support the Finnish and Swedish application for NATO membership. It is truly historic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602091951	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602091956	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. As I said, the Enhedslisten will of course not oppose Sweden and Finland's accession to NATO, and it is also clear that, in the acute situation we are facing, we will vote in favour of it. But it is clear that one of our concerns when we read the resolution is that we do not see any risk analysis or threat assessment from the Defence Intelligence Service. After all, this is a considerable enlargement, where there will suddenly be a good 1 300 km border between NATO and Russia, which is why it is important that, when such a decision is taken, we also know what implications it will have for the situation in the Baltic Sea, but also for the risk of escalation, and that we know what the assessments have been made. That is why I should just like to ask the Foreign Minister whether there is no such threat assessment and, if so, why it is not included in this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092101	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092102	First of all, I must say that NATO is a defence alliance which will defend the countries against aggression from outside if it comes. One can also say that it can be seen that Putin's response to Finland and Sweden's application for NATO membership has been very subdued, but there will be a reaction. But there is no doubt that NATO will be stronger in terms of security with Finland and Sweden. We are already very, very close partners Finland and Sweden are NATO's closest partners and it can be said that the fact that with Finland and Sweden's arrival we will see that the whole Nordic region and virtually all countries in the Baltic region will become members of NATO means that we have a situation where we can work closely together on our security, and I will assess that helps to strengthen security in our region. That is also why, for Denmark and the rest of the NATO countries in the Baltic Sea region, it is strengthening with the Finnish and Swedish applications. That is clearly my assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092204	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092205	Now it can be said that what this is all about is, of course, strengthening security and security, and that is also why, when it comes to making the decision, we need to make a concrete analysis of what this has to do with the implications of the fact that what we hope will not happen could lead to a kind of escalation which could then lead to what we all fear, namely a kind of nuclear conflict. That is why I am a little surprised that there is no such threat assessment or risk analysis, because it also offers the opportunity to take the measures that will be necessary to prevent that situation from arising.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092243	Yes, but you have to see that, and that is why I have used the quote from the Finnish President here: what Finland and Sweden are doing as a defensive move to counter a new security situation that Russia and Putin have created in Europe, and NATO is, I would stress, a defence alliance that defends the right of countries to live in peace and freedom with their neighbours. So that is the crux of the matter here. There is my clear assessment that when we are gathered together in the North and around the Baltic as NATO countries, we are only stronger and able to protect our security, and that is why we must warmly welcome Sweden and Finland to NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092322	Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092324	Thank you. The Foreign Minister says that we must invest in our defence, because that is simply necessary, and we are 100% in agreement with that. That is also why I am pleased that we, all the parties, could make the national compromise. The problem is, of course, that we need to implement the national compromise; we need to get to work on the defence negotiations. And when the Minister says so clearly that we have to invest in our defence, because it is necessary in relation to this deterrent of Putin, and not least when we know that NATO expects us to start our defence negotiations now, the Minister does not think that the government should wake up and accept the call that comes from, among other things. Left, is it that we are launching the defence negotiations now, so that we can get started now? Because it is no secret that there are a large number of countries that are well under way with necessary armaments, so that the queue in relation to equipment and the like will be guaranteed no less in the coming months, when the government is waiting for whatever they are waiting for. So does the Minister not agree that we need to start negotiations now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092423	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092424	Now Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen is well aware that it is his colleague, the Minister for Defence, who is in charge of the defence negotiations, so I would like to refer to that. Then I would just like to say to that remark that Denmark is not running, that we are some of the most up-to-date in terms of strengthening our eastern flank in the light of the new security situation. We have now about 1,000 soldiers deployed in Latvia and Estonia in NATO contexts to deter and show our defence profile in the alliance, so that there is no threat from Russia and Putin. And I know that's something the Left also supports. And that actually makes us one of those countries which, in relation to population figures, make the most of the contribution outside the country's borders to the common NATO policy. And I am really happy and proud that Denmark is running for it, just as we did in the 1990s when we worked for it. the Baltic countries should become members of the European Union and NATO, as they wanted us to do today when there is a threat to our common security.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092521	Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092523	We are in complete agreement on that, as the Minister also says. I only mention this because the Minister himself took it up in his speech and I agree with one hundred percent. That is why I am sorry that there is apparently no such thing as intergovernmental coordination in relation to the need for what the Foreign Minister stands and advocates, namely that we should start upgrading our defence so that we are ready to create the necessary deterrent. So I can only make one request, and that is a very, very great request, and that is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should take this message to the Minister for Defence, and instead of waiting and waiting, let us get on with the negotiations now. Left's ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092600	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092601	Now Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen himself that we have made a national compromise on Danish security, and here we have set aside several billion kroner, both in 2022 and in 2023, to strengthen our defence, and I hope that the Left has taken note of that. And then it is true that defence conciliation will be started very soon. So it is not because billions have not been set aside to strengthen the defence. We also spend billions to help Ukrainians in their defense against Putin's aggression. So I certainly do not think we have anything to be ashamed of; I think we should rejoice at the historical cohesion we have, including in the Folketing, on these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092637	Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092639	Thank you. Today, a united Parliament has, of course, supported the wish expressed by the majority of the Finnish and Swedish MEPs to join NATO. We have, among other things. ■ to make it possible for this wish to be fulfilled quickly. The only thing that will probably block that can block it is Turkey. That is why, in his speech, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur asked the Foreign Minister whether the Foreign Minister would promise to return if it turned out along the way that the price of having Turkey's approval of this enlargement process is that concessions are made in relation to human rights in Europe and in relation to the fight against the Islamic State. So I just want to remind the Secretary of State of that wish and look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092734	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092736	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard for that question. In other words, we have a clear approach: we are pursuing a value-based foreign policy and, in relation to the fight against ISIL, we also support, among other things, the fight against ISIL. Syrian Democratic Forces, the SDF, and their fight. They are allies in the fight against Islamic State... important allies... and they will continue to be. And in relation to restrictions on arms exports, we are also pursuing a common policy in the European Union, among other things. as a result of what happened in 2019, which we have turned on other occasions. We shall continue to do so. So the important thing for me now is that we should have a process as soon as possible in which they want membership, as Finland and Sweden have now said, is satisfied with the fact that we have a rapid process in NATO. Denmark works hard for this. I myself had talks with the Turkish Foreign Minister in Berlin a few weeks ago, just after Erdogan had made his announcements, and we are working closely with, among others. The Swedes and the Finns to resolve any differences there may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092841	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092842	That was a lot of words not to answer the question. The question is quite simple: if we find ourselves in a situation where Turkey is quite unreasonably insisting that the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO should have consequences for the human rights situation in Europe, and that means weakening the fight against the Islamic State, will the Minister come back to the Folketing? It is a relatively simple question and I think it can be answered with a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602092917	That's what I said, too, sir. Søren Søndergaard, by saying that we are completely maintaining our human rights policy. It does not change, and we do not intend to make a change in approach to the fight against the Islamic State, for example. SDF, Syrian Democratic Forces, is our partner in that fight. So there's no change here. Then we look forward to having Sweden and Finland join NATO, because they can actually strengthen, I think, the value-based part of NATO. I want NATO to be stronger in terms of values, in terms of the fight for human rights, for democracy and respect for minority rights, etc. We are also a political alliance that shares values and defends our countries against aggression and people who attack our values, with Putin at the forefront.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602093002	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220602093024	There is no more to be done in this sitting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today at 1 p.m. 10:00.
