ParlaMint-DK_20220223130002	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Business (Simon Kollerup): Bill no. L 131 (Proposal for a law on accessibility requirements for products and services). Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries (Rasmus Prehn): Bill No. L 132 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Farming and Use of Fertilizers, etc.) (hectares, administrative fines, etc.) Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly (Astrid Krag): Bill No. L 133 (Proposal for a Law on the Trial of Personalised Citizens' Budget for Socially Deprived Citizens). Employment Minister (Peter Hummelgaard): Bill no. L 134 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Working Conditions. Minister for Culture (Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen): Bill No. L 135 (Proposal for a law amending the Museum Law, the Law on the Environmental and Food Complaints Board and various other laws. in the past memory field)). Ministry of Interior and Housing (Kaare Dybvad Bek): Bill no. L 136 (Proposal for a law amending the law on general housing, the law on the rental of general housing and the law on the administration of municipalities. Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply (Dan Jørgensen): Bill no. L 137 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Use of Denmark's Undergrounds. 2 2 Bill No. L 138 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Promotion of Renewable Energy. Minister for Education and Research (Jesper Petersen): Bill no. L 139 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Educational Support for Higher Education. Rasmus Jarlov (KF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 107 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on compensation for neighbors in the event of severe noise pollution caused by public buildings such as light rail construction). Hans Andersen (V) and Morten Dahlin (V): Motion for a resolution No. B 108 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the re-establishment of free elections for either digital or physical interviews in job centres and cashiers). Kathrine Olldag (RV), Carl Valentin (SF), Rosa Lund (EL), Sikandar Siddique (FG) and Torsten Gejl (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 109 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the protection of refugees in fragile and unpredictable circumstances in the country of origin). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130159	The first question concerns the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130211	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130215	Thank you. The question is this: according to a new report by Amnesty International, Israel systematically discriminates and suppresses the Palestinians, which, according to Amnesty, Human Rights Watch and the UN, constitutes a breach of international law and crimes against humanity in the form of apartheid. Does the government share the view that the situation in the occupied territories of Palestine constitutes apartheid and therefore crimes against humanity?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130251	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130253	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique for the question. The Amnesty International report legally concludes, as did a report from Human Rights Watch last year, that Israel has committed crimes against humanity in the form of apartheid and persecution. I will not go into the legal analysis which Amnesty International bases its conclusions. What is important is that we agree with Amnesty International that the human rights situation in the occupied territories in particular is worrying and requires attention. As you know, the same was also my message when last year I addressed the Human Rights Watch report. Israel, as an occupying power, has a special responsibility. The settlements represent a very concrete and serious problem, which we in Denmark and the European Union have not hesitated to establish over and over again, not least in the past three years as a member of the UN Human Rights Council. To this end, the strategic framework for Palestine 2021-2025 remains an important Danish tool for pursuing the two-state solution together with the EU in particular. It does not exempt Palestinian self-government from also being responsible for conditions in the West Bank. As you know, there are ongoing reports of critical conditions, of the will and ability of self-government to live up to human rights there. Finally, there is the situation in Gaza, where Hamas, as a de facto leader, often looks at the human rights of the almost 2 million Palestinians there. For many years Denmark has supported civil society organisations in Palestine and Israel, which work for human rights in the occupied territories, and at a time when escalation has also become the order of the day, it is important that we also support from the bottom up, so to speak. The Government will continue its efforts, particularly through the European Union and the United Nations, to ensure compliance with international humanitarian law and international human rights and to address responsibility for violations, both for state and non-state actors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130452	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130455	But the Minister says it needs attention. I don't understand. So, in 2021 alone, 70 children have been killed by the Israeli army. People get their homes ruined. People get their land stolen. Two million people in Gaza are incarcerated inhumanely. Every day, the Palestinian people are under authority. Every day they are terrorized by the Israeli army. Human Rights Watch says so. The UN says so. B'Tselem says so. Amnesty says it, and the Greens say it. Israel is an apartheid state. That is why I ask the Minister again: will the government declare Israel an apartheid state?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130553	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130554	Thank you. I do not think that the introduction to the question from Mr. Sikandar Siddique was ready. But listen, I said it before. I do not want to go into a legal analysis which Amnesty International bases on its core, and here I hope we agree, and where we also agree with Amnesty International in this, that there are examples of serious human rights violations in relation to the Palestinians. In close cooperation with the European Union in particular, the Government will then step up its efforts to ensure respect for international humanitarian law and international human rights in relation to the Palestinians in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130632	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130633	And we agree with that, but when we can see and hear the Foreign Minister and the government, together with the United States and the European Union, with good reason condemn Russia for violating international law by recognising the independence and possible annexation of East-Ukrainian regions, the Minister must also recognise the hypocrisy and double standard of not condemning both the European Union, the United States and the Minister's own government that Israel is doing exactly the same in the occupied territories of Palestine.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130706	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130707	I would like to arrest it here by comparing two different situations and basically say that what the government is working on with partners in the European Union, together with the United Nations and with the Americans is a two-state solution: a negotiated two-state solution whereby the two peoples, Israelis and Palestinians, can live peacefully side by side within internationally recognised borders, where the rights of all peoples are respected, including democratic rights. Unfortunately, and we agree with this, there are major violations of human rights by the Palestinian authorities in the West Bank and Gaza, but we also have examples, of course qua that Israel is an occupying power, from which we also distance ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130747	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130748	I am pleased that the Minister recognises that there are breaches of human rights. But what do we do? What is the policy of the Danish Government in relation to governments which practice apartheid? What do we do about apartheid states? What did we do with South Africa? That is why we say in the Free Greens: let us boycott Israel politically, economically and culturally, because that is what is being done with apartheid states. So I will end by asking the Minister, and I hope that the Minister will answer yes or no, but of course I cannot decide that: will the Minister and will the government declare Israel an apartheid state yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130825	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130826	So I have answered that question. We don't want to. We do not want to go into the legal analysis which Amnesty International bases on its conclusions here about the term apartheid. What Free Greens might think is Free Green's own choice. What we are concerned with is finding a sustainable fair solution for both Israelis and Palestinians, a two-state solution so that they can live in peace side by side within internationally recognised borders in states that respect fundamental human rights, including democratic rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130856	Thank you very much to the questioner, and thank you very much to the Foreign Minister. The next question is addressed to the Minister for Justice and has been asked by Mr. Peter Skaarup from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130906	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130910	The question is this: will the Minister state whether the government will suspend the penalty debate because of a long period of proceedings for cases of financial crime that have been downgraded?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130927	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223130928	Thank you to the questioner and for the question. The issue focuses on an important issue of financial crime, which I also had the opportunity to explain in more detail in a consultation in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 1 February of this year, and on the challenges of long procedural times that go beyond the sense of justice. That is why I am also pleased that, together with the author's party, we, with the multiannual agreement on the finances of the police and the prosecution, have launched several initiatives to ensure smaller case piles and shorter processing times in the police and the prosecution. As an element of the multi-year agreement, we have also agreed to limit the application of the reduction in penalties due to the long duration of proceedings as far as possible within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. The restriction entered into force on 1 January of this year and has effect on matters committed after this time. Therefore, the possibility of a reduction in penalties due to a long period of time cannot be automatically suspended for pending cases, which is in accordance with the basic principle of the criminal code that no more severe penalty than that applicable at the time of the offence may be imposed. But on the other hand, the limitation of a reduction in the duration of proceedings will have an effect on new cases involving, inter alia: financial crime committed after 1 January of this year. In the future, the courts will only be able to grant a reduction in penalties due to a long duration of proceedings if this is necessary because of the European Convention on Human Rights. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again that the government shares the questioner's focus on limiting the duration of proceedings in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131106	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131107	Thank you. The reason for my question to the Minister here today is, of course, that it has recently emerged that there are 45,000 cases of IT-related financial crime that have been unsolved, and that is a huge figure. And it is so, also in relation to the resources to solve these things, that the police associations in both North Zealand and the West Region have said that there are no resources or competences to be able to keep up with this very big case bump. When you see that because of it you downgrade financial IT-related crime, it also means that there are many cases that are never solved, and it is very problematic, as we see in the Danish People's Party, because there are cases where wrongdoers wait for years for clarification. Typically, it may be that you have bought an item online and have a thought that the party you trade with is doing the right thing, but they are not doing the right thing and do not hand in the goods, for example. not the product. It is problematic that people are being cheated in this way, and if there is no one to get to grips with the matter by the authorities, then society has a problem, because there is no one else to collect the goods or the money, or whatever it is that you have been cheated of, than society. We should not want to have a situation where people choose to take matters into their own hands because there is no consequence that no authorities take matters up. So we would like to see the penalty debate removed because we have these long processing times, because at some point the police will get to the point, hopefully also after we have given more resources from the Folketing and the government to solve these matters. So this is something that we think is important and we hope the Minister will cooperate to give priority to this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131320	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131323	First, recognition of the problem: it is true that there are many of these cases of financial crime on the Internet. There's a big hump of it. They are part of what is called NCIK, i.e. the National Centre for IT Crime. It should also be noted that NCIK has been able to outsource a number of cases to the circles where the perpetrators will then be prosecuted. However, one of the things we can do is to make use of the things we have put in the agreement, which is about what needs to be done in the future, and also the many additional resources that we allocate to our police and our prosecutors by means of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131359	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131400	Yes, and on this point I would like to ask the Minister: if you do not believe that you will remove or remove the penalty rebate retroactively, how will you actually reduce this very large amount of money? 'Cause that's the way we're gonna go. Then it is a question of reducing the matter so that people can have a decision on their case. In practical terms, how will the government approach this, of course, in cooperation with the conciliation parties that exist?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131428	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131429	First of all, there is again recognition that there is something we must do together. For some of the things that we have agreed on in connection with the big agreement on police and prosecution, in addition to the fact that more money has to be given to the police and the prosecution, the number of police officers is. In fact, when we reach 2023, that is, the last few years of the agreement, we have raised the police economy by one billion. We have raised the number of police officers by 450, so that we reach 11,700 police officers, which is historically high. So there are more hands to do good with. That is certainly one of the elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131503	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131504	Yes, and in this connection I would like to ask the Minister something. Now it is not an unknown matter that the Danish People's Party wanted to join this agreement, but that we would have liked to see more police officers out of it, and that is one way to go. But it takes a little time to train police officers, and one could also do well to get rid of a case bump, employing HK-trained staff, which can thus help reduce the case piles in some important areas. It won't take a long education to deal with many of the facets on these cases. For they do not need to be very complex for many. So I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister will use that means, in other words, to employ some trained labour to deal with these matters, so that we can get the bunkers down.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131551	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131552	May I start by saying that one of the things that we have also agreed on is to move the driving licence area from the police, but to keep the crew resource, which, incidentally, is worth over 100 years' work, which will also be useful. One of the other things we have agreed on is that we should sit down together and find out how we can ensure that these cases are given priority, so not that we are told that these cases should be closed down and not prosecuted, but that, for example, they should be dealt with. Asks whether you can create search systems in the police so that you can recognize patterns, so that we are sure that when someone, as is said, often makes sales of things, we can come after them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131627	Thank you very much to the questioner and to the Minister of Justice. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, and that is by Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131634	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131637	Thank you very much to the President-in-Office. The question is: what is the Minister's view that only every second request for access under the Public Access Act, according to TV 2 information on 13 February 2022, is dealt with by ministries within the 7-day deadline?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131655	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131656	Thank you for the question. I think it is important for requests for access to documents to be dealt with as quickly as possible, and I think this is an essential condition for the law to be able to fulfil its intention to support, in particular, the media's communication of current cases to the public, which is why the Public Procurement Act also contains deadlines for dealing with cases of access to documents. The main rule is that cases must be decided as soon as possible, i.e. as soon as possible, and it follows from the law that the decision must be taken within seven working days, unless exceptionally because of the scale or complexity of the case it is not possible. If a case is bulky or contains difficult legal issues, it is provided by law that the duration of proceedings may exceed the seven working days. In this context, it is provided that in exceptional cases the duration of proceedings may be up to 47 working days. It may also have an impact on the authority's ability to take a decision within 7 days if they receive a large number of requests in a short time. The Law does not specify the proportion of each authority's cases which should be settled within seven days. By its very nature, as we have just said, this will depend on the nature of the requests received by the authorities. According to the law's preliminary work, the term 'exceptional' is based on the expectation that the number of cases of access to documents in which this time limit cannot be complied with may not exceed the normality of the overall picture of public access proceedings for all the authorities of the country. The deadline of 7 working days is therefore based on the assumption of the overall picture of access cases in all the national authorities not only in the country's ministries. As far as my own ministry is concerned, I can tell you that there is a focus on dealing with requests for access as quickly as possible. The Ministry of Justice deals annually with between 500 and 600 requests for access, which is a staggeringly high number, and the Ministry dealt with 50 per cent in 2021. of cases within 7 days. By the way, that figure has been fairly stable since 2018, when we made targets for it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131908	Thank you, Minister. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223131910	When I ask this question, it is, of course, because access to documents is journalists and therefore also the public's ability to keep track of what is going on in a government, which means that it is a fairly important and essential tool in a democracy. The Minister of Justice also points to his own ministry, and of course I have also looked at it, and there I can see that there are some targets that you have in 50 per cent. of the cases would like them to be closed within 7 working days, but of course also a target figure of an average duration of proceedings for all cases of 15 working days. On me, it could actually sound like what to say about a systematic passage of time. So does the Minister not find it problematic when the rules of public access to documents in this way are systematically disregarded? I would also like to know whether it is a priority for the government to work for more openness, among other things, in the whole debate we have about openness and also to be able to look for a government that is in office at any time. by reducing the processing time of these requests for access to documents.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132023	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132024	No, in fact, I think exactly the opposite, that this is precisely an example of the fact that we have a government that is rarely open, even on this point. In 2018, the Ministry of Justice set targets for the processing times for access to documents, but instead of having them as internal targets, they were published on our website so that everyone can follow them. We publish how far we go with them, and we have also informed the Parliamentary Ombudsman that we have done so, and the target figures are absolutely right, as it was said, that 50%. cases must be closed within 7 days. The average processing time is 15 days and the maximum processing time 40 days, and we constantly follow up on how we are relative to those numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132102	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132104	For me and for the Radical Left, this is part of a major debate on openness and also about the Public Service Act, and the Minister expressed the wish, almost a year ago, to look at amendments to the Publicity Act. I would like to know if something will happen soon, and what changes to the public law are then seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132126	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132127	Indeed, we had a motion for a resolution in the Assembly, in which I, the government and the Social Democratic Party, also submitted a report, and it is clear that there is a conciliation on the law of the public. The Social Democracy, the Left and the Conservatives are conciliation parties on the Public Act, and that settlement is not terminated by the Social Democracy, not terminated by the Left, not terminated by the Conservatives. It is therefore also natural that the dialogue which must first be held with the conciliation parties. This has not prevented the fact that there has also been a meeting with other parties, but in the first place the dialogue between the parties that form part of the conciliation process is running. I think that is the way it is in all areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132203	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132205	One of the things I am quite concerned about in relation to the Public Service Act is the ministerial service rule, and I would like to know whether the Minister does not think that there is a need for a better understanding of the decision-making processes and whether it cannot be ensured, that is to say, that openness, while also maintaining a confidential space between officials and ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132227	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132229	Yes, I basically agree with that, and I am very pleased that the questioner takes the balance that is necessary here, namely that on the one hand there is a need to give insight into what the government, what the Minister, what I am doing, and on the other hand, of course, that there is also a need for a confidential space where you can have a dialogue with your officials, try ideas that they can give a counter-play, etc., without it being exposed. Because that would just mean that this kind of debate would be disabled and that we would not get the best possible result from it in relation to the rules that the rest of society must conform to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132302	Thank you to the questioner. The next question is also addressed to the Minister for Justice, and that is by Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, who gets the platform now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132312	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132315	Thank you. What initiatives does the Minister intend to take to ensure greater opportunities for young people to travel on open streets at night without the risk of assault or other forms of crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132324	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132326	Thank you for the floor. Let me start by stating that the Danes' security is a matter for the government. All Danes must be able to move freely and feel safe wherever they go. That also applies in the nightlife. We simply must not accept nightlife with violence, threatening behavior or other crime that makes ordinary people insecure. This is precisely the restriction of freedom on which I have tried to raise a debate several times and which, moreover, has been a driving force for the government's legal policy. Security is a prerequisite for freedom and vice versa. If you are afraid to go outside your door because it is not safe, or if you choose to go home as a young person because the ordinary way home is insecure, then we have a security problem, but we also have a problem of freedom. And I do know that because I have read the author's excellent chapter in the book which cannot be bought unless you are a member of the author's party and which I have therefore obtained by other means that in this question we are very much in line. On the question of what has actually been done: action has been taken in a number of areas. We have, for example. to prevent persons convicted of violence during the night from walking in the night life up to two years after the sentence. Security cameras have been set up around here. We've set up 20 new local police stations, and there are several emergency patrols. But we're not in the finish line yet, and that's why I've also launched the playout "A safer Denmark," which among other things. initiatives are targeted precisely at night life. requiring service points located in a nightlife zone to have at least one doorman during the night hours, and prohibiting the sale of alcohol in the retail trade in the nightlife zones during the nightlife hours. These are, of course, some of the proposals that we have to discuss, and I strongly believe that we are in line here with the fact that this is one of the things that needs to be done. I am fully in favour of the particularly terrible conditions that we have seen in Aalborg and which, in my opinion, only make this even more necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132530	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132532	Thank you. And thank you for reading the chapter in the book. I must then warn against piracy. The Minister should refrain from doing so, but that is probably not what has happened either. Back to the serious issue of nightlife. I noted that the Minister mentioned the local police stations among his various actions, and I understand that the Minister is of the opinion that the local police stations are closing at 9 a.m. 15.00, helps with the safety of nightlife, but I can guarantee that they will not. They are open only a few hours a week and are absolutely no help at night but to create a false sense of security. What helps at night is to put in more patrol cars, and that is why my question to the Minister will be addressed, among other things. he is considering in particularly vulnerable places, in particularly vulnerable situations and at particularly vulnerable times to allocate some of the police officers from the near police to drive in patrol cars, because I think that is far, far better. I shall say that there is no clock here with me, but I assume that the President will announce when the time is up. Fourth Vice-President There is still time). I'd like to make the world happy with that. One thing is the near police and patrol cars, another is the fact that I must admit that this is a subject that goes across many ministries, but the Minister for Justice is still in the front line: what does the Minister say about the closing hours of the pubs? There have been proposals from the police in West Jutland that there should be closure a few hours earlier. There's nothing sold in the last two hours, but there's plenty of fights and trouble. It's a suggestion. Does the Minister also think that it is satisfactory that in Aalborg, for example, there is no taxi at night and that the bus service is as limited as it is at night?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132739	Thank you to the questioner. We'll get a look at it clockwise. Here you go to the Minister for Reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132742	On the other hand, I have a clock, and I can see that I have 28 seconds to answer the relatively comprehensive questions that were asked, so it may be that I have to come back in a few laps. In order to go to what is central, that is to say whether there should be more patrol cars, then some of it was and that was actually before, unfortunately, the author's party got out of the police agreement that was highlighted, the exactly increased patrols and increased presence of patrol cars. So it is also an opportunity that is being worked on, and I am sure that local police circles will, of course, allocate resources to how insecurity is. I would very much like to answer the other questions, but now my time has simply run out in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132823	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132825	Well, then, I can help a little by asking again: what is the Minister's position about someone about the closing hours of the pubs? And if the Minister can reach that, could he consider that the normal punishment for violence, when it takes place at night and on the open street, is being tightened up in relation to the one in force today? It is all to establish a more preventive situation in which people refrain from violence and other forms of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132857	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132859	Now I have so little time, and that is why I would like to start by saying that I fully understand that remark about the local police stations and their activities, but it must be borne in mind that, although they are only open for 15 hours, there are five people employed full-time. This means that there are considerable resources available, even outside the opening hours, and some of what it is used for is, among other things, that you can be present if there is a pedestal market or if there are special circumstances that require presence. With regard to the closing time, in order for me to reach it too, one of the things we are proposing in the new bill is that I know that was not exactly what was asked, but it leans on the fact that the retail trade must be closed to the sale of alcohol between midnight and midnight. 5:00 in the morning. And that's because we've had experience of young people looking there when they're in town, and there's going to be a tavern outside 7-Eleven, or whatever it may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132950	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223132952	So let us stay at the near police stations for just a short time: is it not quite correct that they close at 1 p.m.? 15 and thus have no effect at all at night, that is, that there are no officers at all there at night, but an empty building? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133007	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133008	It is actually planned locally how the manning is. It is true that there must be a minimum of 15 hours of opening time; some are open longer. But let us assume that they have 15 hours of opening hours, but there are still five people who have 37 hours of working week to take place in the vicinity of the police stations. This means that there will be people present, and it also means that I know that you will keep an eye on where you need to be present at the summer party when Easter brews or Christmas brews appear on the street or whatever it may be. So some of what is won at the local police stations is exactly what is intimately known.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133048	Thank you very much to the questioner. And thank you very much to the Minister of Justice. The next question is to the Minister for Children and Education, and this has been asked by Mrs Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133056	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133058	Thank you. In view of the fact that EVA's evaluation of the 7-step scale appeared in January 2019 and that the established group of experts looking at possible changes appeared with their report in September 2020, when does the Minister expect to call for negotiations to change the rating scale?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133116	Here you go to the Minister for Children and Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133117	Thank you. If I had been able to set a specific date, a letter would have gone around, I would say. That's how it used to be. It's only just until the end that you put the calendar ready. But I understand the question, because we have had a group of experts who have worked, and we have been very concerned about each other and with a number of other parties here in Parliament to get some of the things that do not work well with the 12-scale. And we should rather do that, even in the foreseeable future, but then we have been hit by corona and everything else, which is, after all, about to be over. That is why we can start working on some of these things. It is not entirely uncomplicated to create a new scale of character, I should like to say, and it is extremely important that we hit it right, because it is very important for the individual pupil and structuralally for our society how we approach it. I think, and I think so, insofar as we have a large degree of agreement that there are too few steps in the middle, that there may be too few steps in the whole; but especially in the middle does the right av that there is as far between the steps as there are. You feel like you have to fight and fight and fight out there without even moving in character. Then there are some problems at the top of the scale, and there are also some problems at the bottom of the scale where you cannot feel the progression in your professional development in the same way as you could with the old scale. The step descriptions are negatively formulated... really a bad idea. Well, you can say that the problem complexes I really think are easy to feel, and then it's all about finding what we put on by numbers instead of solving the problems. So I'm actually pretty confident that we're gonna get there, and I'm actually glad about the impatience, because it's also about getting there. But there is also such a piece of workshop work that really needs to be done to get things done right and properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133259	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133301	Thank you. Now we also had the opportunity to talk about it a little before we came here, and I think the Minister is right in saying that there are a great many of the principles on which we are very much in agreement, and where I actually also hear a broad consensus throughout the Folketing, namely that there is just a bias in the jumps between characters that makes you feel that it can be really difficult to achieve a higher character and get the reward for having improved. It can be really hard to see that it distorts your whole average just because you just got a character lower. I also hope that the Minister will agree that we do not want to have minus marks forward because there are no children and young people who are less good at anything. Then the Minister is quite right, when you highlight this with the descriptions, that you would like to reward the successes and not just count all the errors. It should also make people dare take some chances, think a little new and give them a reward for being a little creative. However, the reason why I am still trying to push here is that a great deal of preparatory work has now been done, and I have heard the Minister say earlier that this should be associated with the admission system. Then I can inform you that, at least from the last meeting on the admission system, I know that there is a gathering meeting on 3/3 over at the Ministry of Education and Research. So can we look forward to a call coming around the grade scale before the Easter vacation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133443	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133443-2	I am sorry that I am woolly, because I actually like being very square in my statements... that sometimes happens but just as far as the date is concerned, I can't be anything but wool, simply because we haven't settled on the date yet. But both the Minister for Education and Research and I are, of course, extremely aware of how it works with others. The admission system, which I know you're working on now. So we have close, close coordination. After all, the scale of character means a great deal both in higher education and in upper secondary education and in primary education. So we're gonna make sure we keep close coordination, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133520	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133521	Then I would really like to give the Minister the opportunity to give a little clarification on the ideas that the Minister could make on what a future scale of character should look like and can look like, since we want to solve some of the challenges of too few opportunities in the middle. I also heard from the Minister's introductory remark that the Minister is open to the possibility that there may be too few at the top and bottom. Can the Minister lift a little of the veil for some of the ambitions?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133554	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133555	Yes, one of the things I didn't get the answer to and I'm sorry, but the answer time is just so short; otherwise I have to come back with it. In fact, I think that is extremely important and very fundamental; it is simply wrong that we say to someone that it is not just to 0, but that it is simply worse than 0. In other words, a grade scale is an assessment, but it is also an educational tool, and it should preferably be the case that we have an education system that helps build people up instead of picking them apart. And I simply think that, in principle, there is something completely wrong in having a character below 0. In other words, I wouldn't think negative grades were a good idea at all. Now I can't tell you the rest, but it was just to the second part I didn't get the answer to before.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133635	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133636	Thank you. Now we also had a little better time when we were just discussing it in the back just now. There's been a lot of discussion in the past about this one with top marks and character 12. Former Minister for Education and Research Tommy Ahlers from the Left had some ambition for a 12+ character. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133659	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133700	Thank you for that question. Of course, I've also delved into the Tommy Ahlers model. The problem that Tommy Ahlers was trying to solve, I believe, in turn, has dissolved itself, and that is how it is sometimes, i.e. that something that could at some point actually be wise thoughts is no longer relevant, because the world has changed. And the reason why it is not really relevant anymore is that it never succeeded in building an international common scale. That's what the Tommy Ahlers scale was really an answer to. On the other hand, in my opinion, there is still a problem with the fact that we do not have a character higher than 12. This means that we have to go in and see if we can make a new twist, and I think there is a great deal of philosophy behind this, in that it is neither good nor healthy that we say as a system that it is possible to strive for perfection. I think it puts a very great deal of pressure on young people, and I think that is not pretty. There could be something that the 12-scale cannot do, namely to say straight away: Humans are not perfect. Fortunately for that, because we are actually incredibly good, lovely and diverse and everything else, but perfect can't be called us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133804	Thank you very much to both the questioner and the Minister for Children and Education. The next question is addressed to the Minister for Industry, and that is what Mr. Carl Valentin of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133812	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133814	Thank you. Has the Minister for Business come closer to whether the government is ready to introduce an advertising yes-than-Thank you scheme in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133827	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223133828	First of all, thank you for an unfortunately very relevant question, and if the rapporteur is impatient, I think it is firstly due to the rapporteur's very persistent efforts in this matter, which I would actually like to praise, because I think it is so important that it deserves it, but secondly, it is probably due to the fact that we are still waiting for a definitive clarification from the European Commission as to whether a yes-than-you regime will be within EU law. I can at least say, for my part, that if I am to be completely honest, I think this process has been too sluggish, and I simply do not think it is good enough that the Commission has not returned to us yet, and that is why I share the impatience that I think I can trace from the questioner. For me, there is no doubt that, of course, there will be environmental gains to be gained if you could make a yes-than-you scheme. I do not think there is any doubt about that at all. Questions may be asked as to how much the gain will be and how many tonnes of paper and how much CO2 but there are also some drawbacks to introducing a yes-than-one scheme. There may be for our association life in Denmark. There may be for a number of communities. There may be a number of local newsrooms around the country, and I think that is also something that we need to pay attention to and take into account in a final assessment of this matter. And then we also have a no-thank-you scheme and a no-thank-you-plus scheme which, in my view, is relatively well-functioning as they are today. However, having said all that, we are in the process and want the government to clarify what the possibility is of introducing a yes-than-you scheme, and we have also said in connection with the green waste settlement that this is something we are going to investigate, and that is why last year we contacted the European Commission to see if the yes-than-you scheme is in line with EU law and, unfortunately, after many reminders we are still waiting for that clarification, and that is what I think we should have before we meet in the circle of agreements and take the political debate on the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134036	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134037	There has been a completely wild debate in recent days, it has to be said, about this, and it has really filled a lot in the media. It has, of course, not just because we in the SF have been persistent and thank you for the recognition it has, because there really are many actors who are involved in this. It's Coop. It's the Forests of the World. It is the Danish Nature Conservation Association. It's Danish Industry. It's Plastic Change and many, many others, who are involved in this case, and they are, because it's 300,000 tonnes of CO2 I must also just say that when I saw that Netto had decided two weeks ago that they would try a week without advertising, and I saw that it was 1.3 million newspapers they had saved on that week that they used to hand out, I also thought that this paper waste is crazy. So that's why we keep working like that. I am pleased that there is a process in the European Union. I recognise that, and it is good that it is being done, but I also think it has become sluggish and I can also hear the Minister recognise that. It may also be because the government has not tried to present a clear model to the European Commission. At least it doesn't sound like you have. It has been asked, as it were, whether a yes-than-you system can be set up, and there have also been some public access to documents which show that it is heading in the direction of Denmark being allowed to introduce such a system here. I've been able to look forward to that. I am a little curious about what the Minister intends to do if he gets a yes very soon from the European Commission. In other words, when can we expect the Minister to call a debate on this, and will we then do what we can to see if such a system can be introduced here without any of the negative consequences that the Minister also highlights?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134224	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134225	Thank you. There are many things in the speech here, but in order to try to answer the question, what happens if we are told that it will be within EU law to make a yes-than-you regime, I would say that then it will happen that we will meet in the conciliation circle and sit down and talk about it. You can then make the arrangement... we assume you've been told at the time... what are some green gains that are in one bowl, and what are the costs that can be for association, outer areas, older fellow citizens? Rural and Danish Media are the critics of a scheme. We must try to work with each other on these matters, and we must see if there can also be a hybrid model, or what do I know. We must then try to look at that within it, but it makes the most sense to take that meeting once we have had a clarification as to whether we can go one way at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134317	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134318	Thank you for that answer. What bothers me a little about today's system is that I think we should do what we can here at Christiansborg to ensure that the green choice is always the easy choice, so it is easy for people to make sustainable decisions. This applies to all sorts of different areas. But right in this area, it's like it's completely the other way around. It is assumed that people would like to be spammed with advertisements, and if you so want to be green and be free from them, you have to do something active. Does the Minister agree with the basic principle that we should try to ensure that the green choice is the easy choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134353	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134353-2	I am of the opinion that we must do what we can so that, as a Dane, consumer, company and public authority, good green choices can easily be made, because that is the direction in which we want to drive our society and, in fact, the development of the world. Specifically, on a yes-thank you regime, we need to know whether it will be legal or will be illegal. Then we must also pay attention to the resulting negative consequences, which may be for example. the outermost regions of Denmark. If we can avoid them, I think we should do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134431	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134432	Now the Prime Minister has been out to say that she is no longer red until she is green. I think that is a good thing, because in the SF we believe that the green and the red should play together. So I think that's a positive message. Could it not be obvious, following on from showing the citizens of Denmark that these are not just words, but that they would actually like to put some action behind them? It's for me to see a relatively low-hanging fruit that you can pick by making sure you don't have this automatic distribution of advertising to people, no matter what they think about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134504	There's no doubt that we have to be green before we're red. In this particular case, we need to be sure that we have been given the opportunity and now I have to be excused for the term 'green light' from the European Commission to be able to go that way. If we then go the way that we want a yes-than-you regime, I do not think we should forget to be red too or what color it is now, taking into account the outermost regions, the community life, that is, the other parts where I may be concerned that it has some negative consequences. We can start to make that balance when we know whether the yes-thank you system is a possible way of going.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134539	Thank you to the Minister for Industry and thank you to the author. The next question is addressed to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, and this has been asked by Mrs Signe Munk from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134602	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134606	Thank you. What is the Minister's view that the Danish National Church can veto the construction of wind turbines?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134616	Thank you for the question. Municipal planning must take into account what is called national interests. This applies, among other things, to: cultural heritage where the churches in the landscape are of national interest. As regards municipal plans, the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing must object to plans which do not comply with national interests. It is the Ministry of Churches which, where appropriate, asks the Housing and Planning Board to object to municipal planning in the case of the protection of churches in the landscape. In relation to local plans, a minister may object to local plan proposals on the basis of the special considerations of the Minister. The same right has the country's ten strengths. The proposal to remove the right of objection of rigidity is not new. The right of establishment to object to local planning proposals included, inter alia: in the Bill on the Planning Act, which was tabled in 2016, but during Parliament's consideration of the bill, the court was reinstated. Since the Law of the Plan was amended in 2017, very ambitious targets have been decided for Denmark's green conversion, which presupposes the expansion of renewable energy, and we can see that conflicts arise between the consideration of viewing and viewing from the churches and the setting up of wind turbines. The latest statements of objections show that the stability of the period from June 2016 to 2021 has raised objections to nine plans for renewable energy installations. As recently as Monday I have been on inspection around Gundersted Church in the municipality of Vesthimmerland, which is referred to in the question, to form an impression of the influence of possibly six new windmills southwest of the church. The specific case, which awaits clarification, in relation to the objection to the municipal plan supplement, I cannot comment on for the present, but the right of opposition of the tenure is governed by the law on plans, which is the subject of a conciliation between the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance in a number of areas. As can be seen from the evaluation, the National Association of Municipalities has proposed that consideration of the views and views of the churches be treated in the same way as the other national interests, so that it can only be raised nationally. And that is a wish that I share from the outset.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134832	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223134834	In Denmark we have about 2,000 churches, and they are well distributed over our quite lovely country, and each and every one of them can actually say no to windmill projects, as long as they can see the windmill on the horizon. This also means that several wind turbine projects, which the Minister also mentions in his speech, have been between 1.5 and 4.5 km away from the churches. As the Minister also has, Denmark desperately lacks green power, and the cheapest way and the fastest way to get green power is to set up windmills. So everyone can see that we are facing a problem because the right of the churches to say no to wind turbines is being used in a way that slows down the green transition in which we all have an interest. Now that the Minister is sitting at the table of the scheduled negotiations that are going on, when the Minister is now the one who can actually decide to remove this block from the planning board and within the planning law, I would therefore like to hear what the Minister is going to do for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135000	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135001	Thank you very much. I would like to start by saying that a church does not have a right of veto against the setting up of wind turbines. It is true that there are quite long distances, and in principle it is 28 times the height of the windmill, so you can imagine some rather large circles around each church, where you cannot set up the current sizes of windmills that apply, but you do not have the right of veto. One can raise an objection and of course it can be put down by the relevant minister. At the moment, we have among other things. a discussion on the case from Gundersted, where we are discussing the matter. Now I see that the President is standing up, so we have to wait until the next question to answer the second one.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135036	Exactly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135037	But the Minister knows very well that the right to object acts as a stop-point in practice. The project which the Minister has just undertaken in West Himmerland has been delayed precisely by this right of objection, and I should just like to understand the Minister correctly: will the Minister go out and deal with all these cases and then deny the right of objection to the churches in connection with the construction of wind turbines, or will the Minister simply remove this right of objection? My recommendation to the Minister will be: remove, however, this block for the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135109	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135110	One cannot completely remove the right of objection of the churches, but what one can do, and what I also think one should do, and which I understand is the SF's wish, is to centralise that objection so that, on an equal footing with, for example, the Road Directorate or the Defence or other authorities, it has to go through the Ministry instead of through the strength of the Constitution. I am in total agreement with that wish, but I think it is only important that we realise from the outset that the desire and protection of national interests, for example, if anyone wants to build a high-rise next to Roskilde Cathedral, the founders still have to defend no matter what.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135148	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135149	So how will the Minister and how soon will the Minister ensure that we have this right of objection removed for the churches?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135158-2	I understand that this may be a little technical, but the right to object cannot be removed, because it will just be put somewhere else, which will allow a uniform procedure and a political decision to be taken. I agree with that, and I understand that this is what the SF would like to do. I will, of course, deal with that with the conciliation circle as there is, but this naturally presupposes that there is agreement among the conciliation parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135219	Thank you very much to the questioner. Now we will give room to the next questioner, who is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, and he will ask a question to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135228	Here you go! This time it's your turn!
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135231	It's hard enough to give way to SF, but that's what it has to be when it has to be in order. My question to the Minister is this: what consideration is the Minister taking of the fact that the municipalities supposedly believe that it is not possible for the municipalities to take action in respect of buildings which either pose dangers to the environment or do not appear in a decent condition?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135253	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135254	Thank you very much for the question. Of course, I cannot address the individual cases, but I can explain the general policy in this area. In the building law, municipalities can impose requirements on the settlement and on the condition of the surrounding areas. These provisions apply regardless of what the property is used for and when it is built. If there is a danger to the residents or others of the property due to defects in the property, the municipality may require that the settlement and the surrounding areas be secluded and extinguished as necessary. The municipality can therefore require the owner to bring a property in a decent condition. If an order is not immediately complied with, the work may be carried out by the municipality at the expense of the owner. This does not require legal proceedings if it is not reasonable to await a judgment against the owner of the property before measures are taken to protect the residents or others. Under certain conditions, the municipality may also grant aid for the renovation of owner-occupied housing, cooperative housing and private rentals. Aid may also be granted for demolition where justified by the condition of the property, and the municipality may, by voluntary agreement with the owner of the property, purchase worn-out dwellings for renovation or demolition purposes. In addition, the municipality may choose to condense by prohibiting the use of a building for residential purposes if it is considered that the use of the dwelling is related to health or fire hazards. For example, in the context of a decision on condensation, the municipality may issue an injunction, for example: Remedial action, containment or demolition. The guide on dealing with desecrating properties was published as a practical guide to municipal staff to support the use of the various legislative options, and on this basis I believe that municipalities have sufficient opportunity to intervene against desecrating properties today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135430	Thank you very much. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135432	Thank you for the Minister's reply. And out of that, I conclude that section 14 of the Building Act. In any event, a clear possibility exists for the municipality to issue an injunction if the property is not in good condition or if it endangers the environment. The injunction may result in the municipality tearing down the property and a demolition does not require a judgment. It is entirely satisfactory that this is the case under the law and according to section 14 of the Building Act. However, it is my clear view that the municipalities are reluctant to do so here, and I would like to know whether the Minister and the Ministry share the same view. We have several examples of property in North Jutland which is bothering our neighbours, and I am of course talking about buildings located in neighbourhoods which are supposed to be completely different from the property in question. It may lie so far away from the alpha course that it is somewhat secondary to what it looks like, but as for buildings that should be in decent condition, I see many examples where the municipalities hold back from using this option. Can the Minister confirm the same view and, if necessary, comment on it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135551	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135552	Yes, in relation to that paragraph, it is also my view, because there is, of course, a risk to it. Typically, the municipalities will use the pool that has been set aside for nearly 10 years, with 40 percent municipal co-financing buying a property and then tearing it down. I think 200 million has been set aside. kr. to it this year, and it is different from municipality to municipality, what a tradition one has of using that scheme. Now I know a little about the matter from Dybvad, because I myself have got my name from that city, and it is a property up there that is traded at a very, very low price and where really only the demolition price will be that person.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135632	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135633	Exactly that property I also focus on, and then on several other properties in parts of the country, where we from all parties here in the Danish Parliament say that we want Denmark to be balanced. But such a property can mean that the neighbours cannot sell their property, and it can mean that no one will move to such a city. That is why it must at least be my recommendation here today to the Minister that more attention should be paid to the municipalities that these opportunities exist. For they are found in section 14 of the Building Act at the expense of the owner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135708	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135709	Well, I agree with that. I myself know of cases from my own local area where you have had owners who have been unwilling to set up a home. One can say that if there is a CPR number, that is a person to the address, then there is a whole range of requirements to be met. However, at the time when people are moving away, there really are no sanctions available. At least that's the opinion. But that is what I am saying in the building law, and also in the demolition pool there is. I think that is actually the best way forward. If we see a municipality like Lolland, they tear down about 200 properties a year from that pool, and Frederikshavn will also be able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135753	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135754	Perhaps the easiest thing is to use the demolition pool, but the 200 million. kr. After all, in the kingdom of Denmark, we have to say, legs. Therefore, I think there is every reason to urge the municipalities that we have section 14 of the Building Act, and not least that we have section 17, which says that if the injunction is implemented, then the municipality can go in and demolish or repair to maintain at the owner's expense. It is an expense for which the municipality will also have first priority and mortgaged in the property if it goes to foreclosure. They do that a lot. So it should be free of charge. I just think it needs to be addressed to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135831	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135832	Well, I'll take that back to the revision we're going to do at some point, and then I'll say that if someone is listening and considering moving to Dybvad, then it's not the school itself in Dybvad that's falling out, because it's an old private school. The actual primary school in Dybvad is fully functional and probably a pretty good offer for families with children wishing to move there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135852	Thank you very much to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. Thank you very much to the questioner. The next question is to the Minister for Education and Research, and this has been asked by Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135905	Thank you. Does the Minister think that ITU should close 5-10 per cent? of their places in Copenhagen, and what is the Minister's attitude to the concerns of industry, which has a high demand for graduates from the ITU?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135922	Here you go to the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223135924	Thank you for that and thank you for the question. We in the government are very concerned that we are educating more people with IT competences in Denmark in the coming years. The aim of the agreement on more better education opportunities in Denmark, which a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties are behind, is to achieve a better geographical balance in the educational landscape in Denmark. If we do not act politically, the centralisation of students in the largest cities will continue, and this will mean closures of regional educational services that provide the business community and welfare services throughout Denmark with labour. There are IT-oriented courses at a number of institutions, not only at the ITU, and several of them currently have vacant places. That is why we have a common task, in conjunction with universities, to attract more young people to our IT programmes throughout the country. There is a need for those competences. The ITU and the other higher education institutions in the largest cities have been asked to make their bid on how to reduce the number of places in the four largest cities by 5-10 per cent. They can do this by either moving seats out of the four largest cities and placing them elsewhere or by scaling down the occupied ones. Following on from this, I would like to use the opportunity to correct a statement by the political leader of the questioner, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, who, during the Question Time in the Parliamentary Chamber the other day, interpreted it as if, as a result of the agreement, the ITU would close education. That is not the case. The training institutions have submitted their proposals on how they can contribute to the objectives of the agreement. Now we are discussing in the contract circle how the final model is to be screwed up • I actually come from a meeting of that circle and both in the text of the agreement and in the implementation task we have right now, there is a focus on IT courses and the aim is to ensure a wide range of IT courses requested in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223140125	Thank you. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223140127	Thank you. After all, it is the government that has proposed that up to 10%. In the four largest cities, training places have to be relocated or closed, and since a really large part of them cannot move, it means closing up training places. I do not think that is quite surprising, because I think that has been said very clearly on my part, is a really, really bad idea. However, I have not received an answer as to whether the Minister of Social Democracy thinks the IT University in Copenhagen should close seats, and that is what I asked. I think the Socialist Minister should give an answer to what the Minister thinks. After all, it is on the basis of the ambition that the agreement, which the Radical Left is not part of for good reasons, has come to the conclusion that these seats must be closed. As far as I remember, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen referred during the Question Time to a statement which had arrived very shortly before. She referred to what she said earlier, namely that they close training places. So I think we should be careful not to want to make it a thing from the Minister of Education and Research, unless we have a really bad discussion about just people saying something wrong, then it's obviously something a minister has to stand down here and make himself popular. In fact, I would just like to ask the Minister to answer the question that was asked, namely whether the Minister believes that they should close the seats that are written in the agreement that they should, given that this is their proposal on how to reduce by this 5-10 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223140320	Thank you to the questioner, and here you go to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223140322	I do not have the slightest objection to having a political discussion on that agreement. I think it is extremely important. It is important for young people in Denmark to have good educational opportunities regardless of where they come from. Then we have a need to look at IT competences, and there is, of course, a question of getting more people to apply for those courses, because there are available places today on IT courses, and there are also very important and highly sought-after areas of education where we need more simply to apply. That there is a particular focus on the ITU and the courses they provide, I tried to say a little about in my introduction, and I can only confirm once again that this is definitely also part of the discussions within that area of agreement. How it ends, it's too soon for me to say here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223140406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223140406-2	I didn't ask how it ended. I asked the Minister's opinion and what the Minister's position is on it. In fact, I think you deserve to be able to get answers to that. I think Education Denmark deserves answers to that. It is not me that the Minister owes an answer, but I think the Minister owes an answer to what the government's position is on this. Is it the ambition that 86 places on the IT Unit here in Copenhagen should close when they themselves have an ambition to expand instead and to ensure that exactly the technology pact that the Minister is talking about can actually come into being and that we meet those ambitions?
ParlaMint-DK_20220223140447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223140449	Both in the text of the agreement and also in the implementation that is going on there, there is a discussion specifically of the IT University, and it has been asked that there should be a consideration of training in that area when you come with your plans as an institution that has joined us politicians. And we have a discussion that is also about ITU, and we, as a government, are interested in getting more with those educations. I just think it is necessary to say here too that there is already a dimensioning of education at the IT University, because not all of them have full employment, and that is a dimension which Mrs Sophie Carsten Nielsen, as Minister and Katrine Robsøe's own party, is behind. So the party itself helps to limit admissions to courses at the IT University, but it is just for another reason and with a different hanging.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223140536	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223140537	It is quite true that we in the Radical Left also believe that education has a huge value for our society and for the individual, and we also think that it makes sense to have a chance to use the skills you learn in your education when you get a job. However, I would like to ask whether the Minister believes that 86 places of study should be closed to the IT University.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223140605	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223140607	The government is concerned that we get more people to take IT-oriented courses. It could be at ITU, it could be elsewhere. Without saying too much, I can say that there is a particular focus and special attention to ITU in the circle of parties that are now discussing the implementation of the agreement. It also comes from my own party, where we pay close attention to these competences. And then I think that the nuance to the discussion is that there are also today restrictions on admission to certain courses, which the questioner's own party is also behind, because it is of course a question of getting work afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223140643	Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the author. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220223140649	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow Thursday, 24 February 2022 at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
