ParlaMint-DK_20220512100006	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Children and Education (Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil): Bill no. L 201 (Proposal for a law on municipal special primary schools for children and young people displaced from Ukraine) and Bill No. L 202 (Proposal for a law amending the law on day-to-day provision, the law on open schools and private primary schools, etc., the law on institutions for general upper secondary education and general adult education, etc., the law on institutions for vocational education and the law on institutions for basic education. Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has delivered: report and recommendation on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Folketing. B 201). The report and recommendation will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 6 May 2022, it was decided that the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility management solution relating to Copenhagen City Court, the Court of Frederiksberg and the Maritime and Commercial Law, with the exception of access control and court-supervised tasks, is transferred from the Minister of Justice to the Minister of Transport. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 6 May 2022 provides that the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoors and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management, relating to Copenhagen City Court, the Court of Frederiksberg and the Maritime and Commercial Court, with the exception of access control and court-supervised tasks, is transferred from the Minister of Justice to the Minister of Transport. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100101	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, and that is why we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100118	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of 99 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, LA, FG, ALT, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG), Nase Khader (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG), against 0, abstentions 0. The proposal is unanimously adopted and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100149	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and then we can proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100207	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is closed. in writing. - 89 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT, Naser Khader (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG)) voted against 2 (LA), abstained 9 (DF, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)). The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100235	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and then we can proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100253	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. Is there anyone else who wants to change their vote? That is not the case, and we shall conclude the vote. In favour of 39 votes (SF, RV, EL, DF, LA, FG, ALT, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG), against 60 votes (S, V, KF, Naser Khader (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG)), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100344	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100409	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 11 (DF, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), against voting 66 (S, SF, RV, EL, KF, FG, ALT, Naser Khader (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG)), abstention 22 (V). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100438	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100453	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is closed. In favour of voting 45 (V, KF, DF, LA, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG), Nase Khader (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG), against 54 (S, SF, RV, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. That is why the motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100520	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100537	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. We shall close the vote. voted 43 (V, KF, DF, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG), Nase Khader (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG), against 56 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), abstained from voting 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100601	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100618	The final vote shall be taken and the vote shall be taken. We shall close the vote. In favour of 22 votes (KF, DF, LA, ALT, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG), Nase Khader (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG), against 76 abstentions (S, V, SF, RV, EL and FG). The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100647	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512100704	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL and FG) and can be voted on. We shall close the vote. 20 (SF, EL, FG and ALT) voted against 80 (S, V, RV, KF, DF, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG), Nase Khader (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG), abstained from voting 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 5 and 10, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-4, 6-9 and 11-13, joined by the committee? That is not the case, so they are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 14 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL and FG) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour of 19 votes (SF, EL, FG and ALT), against 80 votes (S, V, RV, KF, DF, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG), Nase Khader (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 15 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL, LA and FG), and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour 22 (SF, EL, LA, FG and ALT) voted against 78 (S, V, RV, KF, DF, Bent Bøgsted, UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG), Marie Krarup (UFG), Nase Khader (UFG) and Orla Østerby (UFG), abstained 0. That is why Amendment No 1 is tabled. 15 rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 16 and 17 members of the Committee? That is not the case. They are adopted. I propose that the proposal should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. The next item is the debate on statement No. R 17. We change and prepare for the statement, and then people who do not want to take part in the debate can leave the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512101032	The debate is open. First, we give the floor to Mrs Birgitte Vind from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512101047	Thank you for the floor. We all hope to get older and live a long life. We all have an idea of how our lives should be shaped with age, and I wonder if most of us imagine an old age where we can enjoy our family and friends, cultivate our interests and perhaps work in the community and make a difference. At any rate, I have the idea of engaging in the work of children and young people on a voluntary basis and at the same time cultivating both my family and my kitchen garden...
ParlaMint-DK_20220512101120	Sorry, we're having a debate in the Chamber. I would ask people who do not want to listen to me to step out of the Chamber, and I would also like to ask the rapporteur to continue his apologies.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512101132	At any rate, I have the idea of engaging in the work of children and young people on a voluntary basis, while at the same time cultivating both my family and my kitchen garden, i.e. when I get old. Fortunately, we Danes live longer and longer, and for many years as a country we have been interested in what affects our health. In Denmark, we have policies for the physical and psychological working environment at the workplace. We are researching diets, we are researching smoking, and we are researching the importance of alcohol to health. We have built up a strong healthcare system which not only focuses on cure but also on prevention. But most of all, of course, we have a welfare society that ensures equal access to health care, regardless of age and social income, even when we grow old and the forces are shrinking. Our welfare society must be constantly fine-tuned, and we, as politicians, are responsible for constantly meeting the needs that arise. All of us in this Chamber know that we live longer and that the fact that we live longer also challenges the economy of the municipalities, but it will always be social democratic policy to hold hands under common welfare. If we do not cover the demography, we will hollow out the help for those who need it most. Therefore, since its accession, the government has raised welfare through municipal agreements of 1.7 billion respectively. kr. in 2020, a further 1.5 billion. kr. in 2021 and by 2022 the service framework was lifted by an additional 1.4 billion. kr. The 2020 Finance Act provided for 125 million. DKK, which alone is targeted at strengthening the work on care and presence, and with the 2021 Finance Act, 425 million was allocated. kr. to employ more staff; an amount rising to 500 million. kr. From 2024. In fact, you all know the figures, but we all know that the economy doesn't do it alone. We must, and we must change the way we manage the care of the elderly. And you know what? The good news is that this movement is happening. The area of the elderly is changing and it is going the right way. Evidence after testimony has otherwise told us that there is a need to create more room for presence and care in the care that is needed to set the staff free, and there is a need to abolish endless rows of archaeological layers of rules. Today, we can give due thanks to the many organisations and individuals who have contributed constructively to the challenges facing us in connection with the older summits: recruitment, more room for professionalism, less control and more confidence, more room for self-determination and more room for cooperation with relatives. Our Prime Minister has taken up the glove, and in her New Year speech she said: we must abolish the extensive regulation and legislation in the area of the elderly, and we must start over. We need a new, concise and precise old law with clear values, dignity, freedom of choice, self-determination and a need for documentation, allowing employees to use their good heads and warm hearts, allowing the relatives to spend more time with the elderly and allowing the elderly to have the love and care that the autumn of life requires. Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly for going around the country listening and collecting evidence and to ensure that a new law on the elderly is not only made from consultant reports; the true experts must also be heard. When I am visiting the municipalities of the country myself and when I attend meetings and conferences on the elderly, I can see that in the last three years there has been a change in the way we talk about change care. Where earlier mention was made of an ageing burden and an increase in expenditure, the discussion in the area of the elderly today is about the need for staff to be free to exercise their skills, that there is no longer just to be managed rigidly in proportion to the number of minutes and that the driving list must not be the target in itself. The good contact and the relationship must be the core task, and it doesn't matter whether it's red or blue mayors I'm talking to. As a Left Mayor said to me the day before yesterday: if we are too afraid to make mistakes, we are going to make too many rules, and that is probably what has happened. We must dare to face up to the mistakes, and then we must also dare to take away some of the rules. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, great changes are taking place in the area of the elderly, a new culture is being created, and that makes me infinitely happy. More and more municipalities are checking in compared to the work of debureaucratising, setting staff free and putting the citizen at the centre. The statement that we are holding today comes around a wide range of subjects that could each fill a whole speech. I would like to dwell on a few areas, and I would like to touch briefly on the subject of dementia, where we all know that a dementia trade plan was put in place a few years ago; a dementia trade plan, which we have later followed up with more funds. But we are also looking into a future where we know that we are getting older, because we live longer, and therefore dementia will be an area that we must constantly focus on. Dementia is a basic condition in Danish care for the elderly; a disease which sets out a direction for the municipalities' prioritization of continuing education, for the daily organisation of care and care, and not least for the cooperation and involvement of relatives and volunteers. Important funds have been set aside for, among other things: reducing the amount of antipsychotic medicines and 14 projects have been launched at the latest, where work needs to be done to create a dementia-friendly society, but we have only just begun. Loneliness is another major issue, which also fills in the statement. The statement comes around the area by telling about the loss of spouses, children moving away, friends and workmates who have passed away, all things that mean that lifewitnesses disappear and that you can sit back with a loneliness. Persons over the age of 65 continue to represent more than a third of all suicides in Denmark, and we know that suicide often comes when life loses meaning. Combating loneliness is a very complex size, for how do you find those who experience loneliness? And although we here in Christiansborg may well see ourselves as quite important once in a while we can admit that it is in the local communities that close relationships must be created and loneliness must be combated, and it must never be an effort that just has to be remotely controlled from here. Yesterday there was a kickoff on the national partnership against loneliness, an effort which is now taking place against the backdrop of the tireless work of civil society organisations and our political will to make it happen. I look forward to that very much. The last issue I would like to raise is the question of recruitment. We all know that we are facing some major challenges, and the first thing the government did when it joined in 2019 was to set up a task force to look at the possibilities of solving recruitment problems. Many things have been put into the sea, but we also have to recognise that we need to look at how to resolve this locally. Close cooperation with the local community, with schools, with educational institutions and, of course, also with civil society organisations is essential for solving recruitment problems. In general, we are now facing a time when we need to look into close cooperation, close cooperation across sectors, close cooperation across civil Denmark and public Denmark. I am sure that close cooperation creates meaningful older people's lives and that it will also create job satisfaction for employees when they can concentrate on what they need to do. A prerequisite for us to recruit employees to the area is that you as an employee experience making a difference with your professionalism not only once in a while, but every day, and therefore debureaucratisation is one of the pillars of getting more staff and recruiting and retaining it to the area. I would like to thank the Minister for his statement, which, of course, we in the Socialist Group support. I am sure that the area of the elderly is entering a new and better time, thanks to the cooperation that exists in the Folketing on it, and we look forward to the debate and the continued work to ensure a good framework for Danish care for the elderly. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512101927	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first goes to Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512101932	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech to the rapporteur. I think the rapporteur talks a lot about the system of staff being set free, I heard the rapporteur say, and that can also make sense. I did not hear the rapporteur mention anything about the elderly, who should be freed from the right of the elderly to choose for themselves who should supply food, who should clean, who should come into your home. This may be due to the fact that the Social Democratic Government has, after all, put forward a proposal for welfare agreements again, in which it is suggested that the municipalities can reduce the right of the elderly to free elections. I would actually like to ask the Socialist rapporteur why, time and again, an ideological crusade is chosen against free elections. Shouldn't it be a human right to decide for yourself what to eat for dinner, who to clean your home and when?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102036	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102037	Now I have dealt with the statement that we are here to deal with today, and that is what I am dealing with. In it I certainly see no sign of any ideological crusade, on the contrary. However, as I referred to in my speech, our Prime Minister has just said that she wants to create more presence and coherence in everyday life for the citizens, and that is what we are here for, so that is a fundamental premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102100	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102102	I also heard the Prime Minister mention self-determination, but one thing is what they say, another is what they do. What we can see here is that there is by no means any agreement between the words that come out of the mouth and the actions that the government and the Socialists are proposing, namely that older people should be deprived of freedom of choice, for example. in relation to food service, cleaning and personal care. And I'm just gonna ask you again: what kind of path are you going down here? It is, after all, a trend that we see from a social democratic government that we are constantly trying to kidnap citizens' rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102143	Basically, I think there is something that Mrs Jane Heitmann has misunderstood in relation to the intentions of the government. Well, it is the case that we will in no way take anything away from the citizens. What we want to say is that we want to say to the municipalities: What makes sense in your municipality? How do you view your daily life? There are no two municipalities that are the same. What we have seen with the municipalities that were set free with the first welfare agreements is that free elections have actually been maintained. No one has taken anything from any citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102215	Thank you. The next brief remark goes to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102219	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I share many of the views expressed by the rapporteur along the way. One of the things I have touched upon in the statement, which I think is worrying, is precisely demographic development, i.e. that there will be more and more elderly people, but we can also see that fewer and fewer people are being searched for practical help and assistance and that fewer and fewer people are being searched for a foster home. This may, of course, mean that people have become more healthy in old age; it may also mean that the visitation has become considerably tighter than it was in the past and may in fact only be given when there is real illness along the way. What does the rapporteur think about the development of care for the elderly? So, are we just getting tighter in the search, or are we just gonna live with the fact that we have fewer and fewer resources to care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102309	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102310	Thank you. In any case, I have noticed some figures. I think that what we need to be aware of is that there are probably basically no people who want help unless they need it. There has been such a slight tendency to talk about the elderly demanding a whole lot. I have never met a single elderly person who has received anything he has not asked for. And sometimes I have also had the experience that you have thought that you have had to exceed some limits by asking for help. It is probably no secret that much has been saved in the public sector, including in the area of the elderly, for many years, and we are, of course, in the process of adding the funds we have agreed. I hope that we can keep our hands under the demography so that we do not undermine the aid. That is what I hear the rapporteur is a little bit about, so to say that perhaps that is what has happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102358	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102400	I can be concerned that this picture is also an expression of the fact that you have to be ill before you can even get help in the care of the elderly today. That is why I am a little concerned about the fact that somewhere else, over in the Ministry of Health, we are negotiating preventive measures, which must also help to relieve health care, which is also under pressure. Should we not negotiate health reform and the law on the elderly together if that were the case for the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102428	In other words, what is the purpose of a new law on the elderly is to create more proximity and look at the elderly as whole people and not just as patients. And it is a debate that has been going on for some time now, about what cut you have to make. We know that 80%. of the elderly living in a nursing home have a dementia diagnosis and one to three chronic diseases. That is why there is a great deal of health involved, for example. being older in a nursing home, but we just have to remember that older citizens are whole people and not only patients. That is why I very much welcome the talk that this is about presence and care.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102503	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Christina Thorholm, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102505	My question follows on from the previous questioner. The rapporteur himself says that we need to cooperate more closely on the elderly, particularly weakened medical patient, citizen, and that is why I am very surprised that we are negotiating a health reform without the Elders' Ministry being involved in it, because that would be an exemplary example of moving closer together. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102535	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102536	I would like to say a little the same thing as I said to the previous rapporteur who asked. I think we have to be very careful because you're older, you don't necessarily have to be a patient. The view we have come to have over it for many years is that old people are also sick people. We have to remember that when you are 60 years old in this country, you have the right to stand for election to an elderly council, and then you are described as being in the category of older people, and so there are a lot of older people of 60 who do not feel sick and who want to have a dignified old life with all that that means. We know that many of us are going to be 100 today, and one should not be placed in the category of sick elderly as soon as one belongs to the elderly category. Then there must also be other things involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102621	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102622	Yes, and that is why it is also very interesting what an old law should contain, for whom should it be directed? Is it the fresh elderly who are absolutely not covered by that legislation because they are out on mountain bikes, out doing volunteer work and just having a great time in life and who want to pay for being part of an older law? It is they who need the help of society that we are keeping our hands on, and those people often need health care. There we are talking about the fact that we cannot have an old law without a health perspective.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102657	At least we can't completely separate things, that's for sure. What we know is, of course, a recent study by the Ethnic Council which looked at where care has gone in our health services and where it could be seen that we have been concentrating for many years on healing and alleviating, but that we have perhaps forgotten the care part. And it's exactly the caring part where you see the whole human being who has to be part of this old law, and we need to focus on it, because if we only talk about health when we talk about the elderly, we also forget the part about care and the whole human being. And sometimes there are many other things at stake. In order for you to be healthy, it is not always enough to get a pill so it can also be present with the person from the Danish Red Cross, the Danish Red Cross or the neighbor for that matter, who comes in for a cup of coffee. But the fact that we care that we get a look at the whole human being and not just the patient must be crucial to an old people's law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102747	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102751	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. When you look at the last page of the statement with this list of initiatives that have been taken by the government, it is of course not very extensive. In other words, it is primarily filled with the fact that the 30 municipalities with which experimental schemes have been drawn up are listed; that is actually what makes up the majority of the filling on that side. And then you are very sensitive to the fact that it is through the economic agreements that an effort has been made, but I would just like to try to ask the rapporteur whether there are actually more or fewer employees per year. 1,000 older today than when government power was taken over in 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102832	I do not dare to answer that on a stand-by basis, and which one should count with there, I am not really aware of that precisely. But we certainly know that a hand has been held under welfare so that we do not erode any longer, and I have heard from municipalities that have actively told me that now they can hire some more because they have simply got a different economy, because we have also made a compensation agreement which has significantly increased the economy of some municipalities. So in this way, at least in concrete terms, some municipalities find that they can employ more staff and have a better economy to run care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102903	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102905	That is also quite fair, but I can then inform you that there are fewer employees per year. 1,000 older people in our care today than when they took over responsibility in 2019. NB-Economics had an article about the other day. It is pointed out that although more money has been added, it has gone to the specialized social area where the money has been swallowed up. And it may well be that you look up some posts, but when you can't recruit employees, you're equal. What initiatives has the government put forward to improve the possibilities of recruiting in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512102937	In other words, as I mentioned briefly in the statement, one of the first things the government did when it joined was to create a task force to sit down and look at the possibilities and some of them. has done, is to make it easier to study and take the education. We have simply increased the financial subsidies so that you do not sit as hard in it as students if you are over a certain age. So there have been several steps taken, but we are definitely not in the end, and I think we all know that. It would be to pretend something to say that we are fully in the finish line. But some of what we're doing now, among other things. By changing the whole way we manage the care of the elderly, we would like to give more work satisfaction to the employees and thus also retain the employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103014	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103019	The Minister's written statement shows that recruitment was unsuccessful; between 40 and 43 per cent. recruitment attempts against social and health workers failed in the period from June to November. One of the obvious problems is that the salary is not towering for the groups working in the care of the elderly. What is the rapporteur's view of the link between the salary levels of social and health workers and the problems of recruiting?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103100	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103101	Well, there is no doubt that wages can play a role in relation to which education you choose, in the long run, including where you see there is status. But when you ask social and health workers what they want, they actually say: I just want more colleagues, this pay thing is secondary; I would have taken another education and picked another job if I wanted a better salary. I mean, what we know, and it's not just something I'm making up, but something that emerges from a report that VIVE made a few years ago is that what motivates employees in the public sector is making a difference. And that's the opportunity to make a difference that we have very much taken from them, because they've actually just had to put some flybones on a sheet of paper. Their core task has been to keep the driving list, the core task has not really been to use their professional skills. It's one of the things that's done that you've gone away from the profession. And we in this room have also helped to talk the care of the elderly down by telling about how bad it has been; we have certainly not helped to talk up the care of the elderly despite the fact that there is good care for the elderly out there. But of course pay plays a role somewhere; that's just not what employees say is essential.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103204	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103206	I agree that there are many different forms of motivation in terms of doing this important work. I had the pleasure of sitting in FOA's federal leadership in 2008, where we had the big conflict in this area. And one of the reasons why we got the conflict was that trained social and health workers were better paid by taking unskilled work in new companies, among others. in the Holstebro area. Does the rapporteur not think that we have a major problem with pay? And will the rapporteur not be prepared for us to add more funds to the municipalities in an equal pay and low pay pool this autumn when the Committee on Labour Structures has presented its report?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103251	That is not what I am going to be negotiating on this platform. But there is no doubt that some people will try to negotiate more wages, and I think that is what wage negotiations are all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103304	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103309	Thank you. A large part of the report is very much about how many people get practical help, how many people get personal care and how many employees there are and such things, but one thing that I think is a little under-priority and which I would like to ask the rapporteur is about the big problem among many elderly people, namely loneliness, which many people are struggling with. It is good that you can get practical help and personal care, but if it is loneliness that you struggle with, we know that when you suffer from it, you also typically get more sick and become more caring. Then the rapporteur does not agree that this is something we should do more to focus our attention on, because it is one of the biggest problems among the elderly, i.e. having a discussion about how much civil society should fill out there, whether it might be some freedom of choice for the elderly, so that they themselves can say: I would not have done right, because I am actually lonely, so I just need to talk or go out for a walk or other thing? It is a little too much about the practical help, which must of course also be in order, but what about the human? If you're sitting and being lonely, it doesn't really help that you're sitting on a really clean floor if you really don't think it's fun to live anymore. So shouldn't we try to get a little more focus on the human part?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103410	Thank you very much for that question. I very much agree with that, and that is precisely why it is important that our staff have more time to talk to the elderly and also to find out whether there is actually a lonely person here. Loneliness is unfortunately a taboo in our society, incredible, but true, and although there are over 380,000 Danes who experience loneliness, it is still a taboo. So thank you for the question I think it is incredibly important. Could it make sense for you to meet someone over a cup of coffee once in a while, because then I know someone who would like to meet for a cup of coffee. The social and health assistant must also have the time to do so, but unfortunately that is not the case today, but there will be a good angle for local staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103506	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103508	Thank you for that answer. There are many things you can do, and it is also a difficult area to find solutions to. One of the things I find interesting in the statement is that if it is the same staff who come every time, it is also something that can help, among other things. loneliness, for it is clear that if it is a new person who comes every day, it is harder to talk about something like loneliness, compared to if it is the same person that comes every time. The municipalities have got the money, but many had actually removed the scheme. So I will also try to hear the Socialists whether you could be prepared to say to the municipalities that it should be possible for some people to have cleaned up, but others might say that they would actually rather go to the park or to a garden centre or whatever it may be that you think is creepy it is very individual. Could it not be good to have such a rock card scheme again, so that you actually had the opportunity to prioritize yourself what you might think would be nice to come out and see?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103600	That clipboard thing sounds so enticing. So you have ten clips and then what? What I'm hearing from the reality of the rock card scheme is that the staff say, "Whoa, the day I should have taken care of the nails or hair or whatever it was, I was sick." Then it is better that it is something that is going on continuously, that is to say that you have a dialogue with the elderly about what is important for them and how we can make it happen. Something will be municipal, but something will also be something that must happen on the part of civil society. So I don't believe in the fact that we're putting everything into the clipboard system, I think it's better that we look at the individual. Because there are some who need 3 clips while there are some who need 20 clips.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103647	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512103701	Thank you to the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly for the presentation on the elderly area for 2022. It was an interesting reading experience that left someone with mixed feelings. First of all, it was a joy to read that many live long, good elderly lives. And in the statement one can read that there has been a positive development in the number of good years of life defined by self-esteem health, mental health and the absence of disease. Many experience healthier and more active old age, where health allows you to cultivate your family, relationships and leisure activities. In particular, because the statement speaks a clear language, it confirms what we already know: many more older people in the future. The group of 65+-year-olds alone is expected in 2040 to represent a quarter of the Danish population, and this requires us to prepare ourselves for a future where much more will experience living with not just one, but more chronic diseases, and will need care and care to cope with everyday life in a modern elderly life. If we as a society are to carry out that task, we have to wear our clothes. That is why I also noticed several things when I read the Minister's statement. Part of the report describes the development of the various staff groups working in the area of the elderly in the country's municipalities. Let me give you a few examples. Since 2018 and to date, the proportion of municipal staff who do not have a social and health education has grown from nearly 5,000 employees to today approx. Nine thousand. Thus, the proportion of unskilled labour has almost doubled in just four years, or 15%. of the employees in the area of the elderly in the municipalities according to the report. And I do not know whether it is social democratic policy that such a large group of unskilled people go around the grey linoleum of nursing homes and care for our elderly. At Funen, teenagers are currently employed in the care of the elderly in all municipalities except Faaborg-Midtfyn. It is commendable that many unskilled young people take a leisure job in the municipalities' elderly care; I hope that more people will realise the great value and joy it can create when generations meet across. After all, we can hope that the very same young people will eventually choose, for example. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. But, of course, we should not be blind to the fact that there are limits to what tasks you can impose on a 14-year-old. They must be able to be in it, and the elderly and their relatives must thrive with the care home employees. It has now been four months since the Prime Minister announced in his New Year's speech a new law on the elderly. You wanted to start over with that blank piece of paper, we had to understand. Smooth paper sounds great, but there is a need for real solutions that can take care of our elderly both now and in the future and make sure that the relatives of the elderly are assured that their loved ones receive the right help, the necessary care and that they are treated with the dignity they deserve. But the only thing we can read in the report on the Older People's Act is a brief overview of the Minister's set up working group, citizens' meetings and a few other small things. It is precisely in the small business department that we can find about the efforts of the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for the Elderly in the past year. The statement is marked by the fact that, for example, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, held summits with, among other things: FOA and has allocated funds to the reserve, which has been shared and decided jointly by all the parties of the Folketing, and only one bill has found its way to the Parliamentary Hall. Yeah, you heard right: one bill. Let me rewind the time to 3 October 2017 when Mrs Thyra Frank was the senior minister and Mrs Astrid Krag was the older rapporteur. At the time, Mrs Astrid Krag, in the national press, hascelereted that Mrs Thyra Frank did not have a legislative proposal, but only a statement in the legislative catalogue. Mrs Astrid Krag said to one of the country's national newspapers, and I quote: 'This again shows that the government has no ambition for our care for the elderly - or our welfare, by the way. And then you think that if you put Thyra Frank in as a wreath figure, then the voters probably won't notice... it just becomes pretty clear when she doesn't have any laws on the program. I think the government itself has realised this, since they have invented a new statement on the occasion. It's too bad for the elderly minister, but it's particularly sad for the elderly... No ambition, no new statement for the occasion, sad for the elderly, let us not leave that picture for a moment before I go further with Mrs Astrid Krag's statement. Now to something quite different: the Minister writes in his statement that it is crucial for the government that the money for welfare follows developments in demography. The welfare must not be broken, even if we grow older, it must be understood. Since the government came to power in 2019, there have been fewer employees per year. the elderly in municipal care, despite promises that the level of service should not fall. On 4 May, NB-Ekonomi writes, and I quote: 'If you look at nurses and social and health assistants alone, there was actually an increase in the number per year. 1.000 elderly from 2013 until 2018 from 22.8 to 26.3. Then there was a decrease to 2019, and since then the number has fallen further, after the S-government took over, and now the figure is down to 24.6. Thus you have to go back to the former S-government under the leadership of Helle Thorning-Schmide-Schmidt to find a lower number than there is today. ▪ Against this background, I have now called the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly in consultation, because I would like to know how this development is related to the government holding hands under welfare, as we have heard the Minister say over and over again. The picture of Danish elderly care and care anno 2022 is, as the report shows, several unskilled elderly care providers and as NB-Ekonomi writes • actually fewer employees per year. older than under e.g. the former VLAK government. We therefore have to go back to the Helle Thorning-Schmide-Schmidt of the Social Democrats when she had government responsibility before it stood as bad out there as it does today under the Red Government of Mette Frederiksen. This gives a somewhat surprising picture of the welfare state that the Social Democrats repeatedly claim to be a priority to the electorate. The figures speak their clear language. At the moment, the parties have discussions on new welfare agreements, and this is a cause for surprise. We have had preliminary discussions on a new law on the elderly, which will create a new regulatory framework for the elderly care of the municipalities, while at the same time negotiating new welfare agreements where the same government will set the municipalities free. It is a strange form of duality, on the one hand, to create a legislative framework in a new law on the elderly and, on the other hand, to set free. Do you not think the government should decide which chair you want to sit on? The right of the elderly to free choice will be lost if the welfare agreements become a reality because the municipalities are allowed to de facto remove free choice around, for example. food service and home help. This is a sad example of system thinking of the worst drawer. Why not make genuine free municipalities in all municipalities and let the municipalities decide for themselves in which and how many areas they will bid? And why can't older people decide for themselves who's going to cook or clean? This is super-partisan and one of the clear dividing lines between red and blue ageing policy. For I fully agree with the chairman of the Elders' case, Bjarne Hastrup, as to B.T. On 10 May 2022, the Government stated:... There's nothing they're putting up with that actually makes things out there better for the elderly. ▪ The Left will never support the reduction of rights for older people, even if the government is now making a new attempt on the welfare agreements. The Left would like to see all elderly people, for example. they are free to choose whether to live in a community nursing home or a free-care home, and whether to have your dinner delivered from the municipality or from the local inn, and to choose who to come and clean your home freely. For us in the Left, it is not crucial whether you choose private or municipal offers, but it is crucial that you have something to choose from. Why? Because people are different and have different preferences throughout their lives. Differences in lifestyle desires and how everyday life is to be shaped do not change simply because you are getting older. Older care and care are not one size fits all. Again and again, I have asked myself who cares for the elderly. And from my chair, the care of the elderly is for the elderly and not for the system. It is also a crucial difference between red and blue ageing policy. In 2020, 82 per cent replied. of the elderly interviewed in a study by Danish Industry that they considered that the system of free choice in home care, nursing homes and nursing homes is important or very important. However, as things stand today, there are 57 municipalities where the elderly do not have a real alternative to the municipal care home. That is why we in the Left want all municipalities to have at least one free-care home. Before long, it will be up to the Danes to decide whether to move down the red path, where the policy clearly aims to limit the right of the elderly to live the life they want, or whether to move down the blue path, where we move towards more free choice and the right to live the life you have chosen for your whole life. That's the way of the Left. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512104632	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512104637	Thank you. And maybe just thank you for another song. In fact, I expected that in a debate on the report we would also hear a little about what the Left thinks they would like to do in relation to the care of the elderly. I think that older people, their relatives and others out in society are getting really tired of hearing parties inside the Folketing pecking at each other and pointing out that who said what and when, while it is quite clear that developments only go one way • more and more elderly people, fewer and fewer to care for them. My colleague was just trying to highlight the issues that they looked like in 2008. Already then, the FOA figured out that you had to recruit 25%. of a youth year to cover the demographic trait when we got here. And we're in the middle of it. So I'm just wondering. What will the Left do to improve conditions with the absolutely terrible demographic situation we are facing right now? What is the Left's answer?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512104743	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512104745	In fact, I thought I was very clear, but I would like to say it again. One of the things that we on the Left want to safeguard and hold on to is that older people should be able to choose for themselves. I mentioned here that, for example, we have to do something about it. As a citizen, you can choose whether you want to live in a community nursing home or a free-care home when the last important home is to be chosen. I also thought that I was very clear about free choice around, for example. food service and care. Who, for example? Come clean my apartment? In fact, I thought I was very clear in my speech, but now I have repeated it again. For us, it is a core value that you can choose your whole life, and not that there are some who, just because you are older, take free choice from you. That's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512104836	Thank you to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512104838	No matter how many private carers there are, no matter how many free nursing homes we set up, everyone, whether public or private, will have the same challenge: there are no staff to hire. So now that Mrs Hansen has chosen that she would like to live at the nursing home of the sunshine, a free nursing home that the Left thinks is important for all municipalities, but there are no more seats, I just ask: which nursing home should Mrs Hansen stay in when there are no seats on the sunshine? What kind of helper should Mrs Jensen have when it is that Amanda from the White Tornado is unable to have more citizens on her driving list? How, then, does Mrs Hansen or Mrs Jensen have any influence on the help they need? And how will the Left ensure that the citizens really have an influence on the aid they need?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512104927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512104929	If I am to address how to really get influence, then it is of course about the fact that there really is something to choose from. That is the proposal for the welfare agreements, for example. have seen, and in what the red wing has decided in the form of the welfare agreements now, the municipalities have the possibility that there really should be nothing to choose from. I would be delighted if the search for the free care home The sunshine is so large that there is a waiting list, because it says something about the municipality's nursing home perhaps not having delivered the necessary standard. And then there's a basis for building a new one. That is what happens when people are allowed to choose, namely that there are choices.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512105013	The next brief remark is to Mrs Birgitte Vind. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512105028	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I do not think it had much to do with the statement, but let it be. I can hear that Mrs Jane Heitmann believes that, for that matter, the government and social democracy will deprive the elderly of free elections. I can't see that standing anywhere, at all. But that is the interpretation put forward by Mrs Jane Heitmann. What I really want to hear from Mrs Jane Heitmann is, in relation to the answer to the question from my colleague, Kirsten Normann Andersen, about how we should solve the demographic problems and where the answer was free choice. So I would like to hear what Mrs Jane Heitmann thinks the free choice can help solve the problem of demography. I didn't quite catch that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512105115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512105116	No, I think that if we are to keep on the serious track like that, then it is clear that there will be more and more elderly people, and that is beyond question; we can see that. What is crucial, and perhaps this is the discussion that I think you should take both with yourself, but which we should also have with each other is so what you offer the large group of older people that we can see there is when we look into the crystal ball. There I can see that there is a crucial difference between the offers that we in the Left think should be made from the red bloc and the offers that we in the Left think should be made. And when I mention that the Social Democrats and the government have, in this way, taken the lead in de facto giving local authorities the opportunity to abolish free elections, then all we have to do is look up the welfare agreements adopted by the red bloc, where it is possible for municipalities to depart from free elections. So it is the municipality that is sovereign to decide who should clean your home or who should provide your food service, and we just don't think it is a good idea to open up to deprive older rights. Older people are adults, self-employed people who have themselves decided in their own lives, and they must continue to do so, even if the birth certificate yellows slightly in the corners.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512105233	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512105235	Thank you. I do not know about Mrs Jane Heitmann, but in my world it is the case that it is best done in the field of welfare where the citizens are and close to the citizens, and we can sometimes sit here in our ivory tower and be very clever about the practice of the municipalities. What we have heard about free elections is that in some municipalities it works very well and that in other municipalities you actually find it very difficult to get some private people to offer it, so the municipalities are in the situation that you do not have any private providers, so you cannot actually comply with the law, so to speak. However, what I really want to hear the rapporteur say is whether the rapporteur recognises that it is the municipalities that are closest to the citizens, that it is the municipalities that know their economy best and that it is the municipalities that are best able to make decisions close to the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512105326	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512105327	I fully recognize municipal autonomy; yes, I do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512105331	That was the last word of this round. No one else has asked to speak, and then the next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512105341	Thank you for that, and thank you for the elder policy statement, which is, of course, justifiably in the tail that we have been focusing on combating corona for the last two years, and that is, of course, also the reason why many necessary and important efforts in the area of the elderly are still waiting. I can also hear from the debate here among my fellow rapporteurs that there are very many different areas of action that we can address when we talk about care for the elderly. Over the last 20 years, which I can recall, we have been talking about demographic developments in the future, where more and more elderly people will need care and health care. More than 10 years ago, the forecasts predicted that we would recruit 25 per cent. of a youth year to the health sector to cover demographic development, but it is not, of course, simple and right now we are just in the middle of it. We have not increased the number of employees, the number of older people is increasing and increasing, but fewer are receiving home help and fewer can get a nursing home. This may, of course, mean that the elderly have become more healthy, one can hope so, but it may also mean that it has become much harder to get searched for help. Maybe it's a combination of both. However, developments show that we are in no way responding to the needs of more elderly people for help, care and treatment. I note that the report focuses on home help, in other words practical help and personal care, while the health, care and treatment of the elderly are not included in the report. This is probably a natural consequence of the fact that the area has moved from the Ministry of Health and to the Ministry of Social Affairs, but it is nevertheless, I think, a shortcoming in the statement, for the health and care and care of the elderly is very important for how we ensure adequate capacity and quality in care for the elderly, but also in health care in the future. When older people are not only weakened by old age, but also often weakened by illness, the need for skilled personnel is only greater. Skills of social and health workers are important for both prevention, timely responses to change and for the relief of older disease. However, these are interventions which are rarely defined in municipal standards. It's just not there. There are a lot of important professional considerations in preventing and relieving illness: medicines on time and a steady pace are crucial for how a citizen with, for example, parkinson can be helped in the right way. Continuity and routines are important for citizens with dementia, who also have a special need for skilled staff's sharp eyes for other diseases and pains that citizens with dementia cannot necessarily express themselves. Diabetes can cause serious problems with the circulation of the legs, which cause wounds and which can be difficult to heal and which, in the extreme, can actually result in an amputation of one's legs, i.e. if you do not react in time. Urinary tract infections, pneumonia and constipation are common disorders of weakened elderly people that can be prevented, but it is also disorders that may result in unnecessary hospitalisations in a pressured health care system. These are all examples of professionalism, which is simply not defined in the municipal standards which form the basis for good and dignified care for the elderly for the individual. That is why I have also wanted an elderly law to be able to deal with together with a health reform, because while health reform is precisely focused on prevention, the Older Law focuses on practical help and personal care, as has been the case in this report. We need to think about the tasks together. If we do more of what we have done in the last 20 years, we will not solve anything. Market conditions and competition do not ensure more prevention or timely interventions in relation to the diseases of the weakened elderly. We simply cannot compete out of this; we must work our way out of good professional skills. However, it merely exports the problem to the health sector, where both hospitals and municipal home care will in no way be able to solve the many health-care problems which, moreover, are best solved in everyday life by skilled and skilled employees, who are able to ensure due care and action in their good education before the problems grow the system at all. The free choice that the bourgeois people are fighting for with their beaks and claws is not an ageing policy agenda, it is a business policy agenda. We have had a free choice of logo on the company car since 2003, but we still have the benefit of seeing how it ensures much better care for the elderly. Could it make a difference if it were the case that the municipalities decided to abandon the enormous bureaucracy resulting from the freedom of choice law and spend the money on more nursing and better opportunities for the elderly to decide for themselves what they need to do today? Could it ensure a more holistic approach if the elderly and the sick could get a concerted effort instead of a bureaucratic and divided effort, in which some need to take care of practical help and personal care, while others need to come and keep an eye on the state of health, which, moreover, can be extremely difficult if it is the case that you are not part of the daily help. Just think that a citizen has been helped to get up and have been in the shower and dressed, but then home nursing comes and has to look at how the legs are hurting because of diabetes problems, and then you can start to undress one more time because we haven't thought about it together. That's not wise. How do we ensure, above all, that we have a duty to act preventively when normal practice in market conditions is that as soon as there is an additional task, it also requires additional payment, and there is probably no one who imagines that in municipal market premises agreements are made to distribute blank cheques to municipal companies in the care of the elderly. I do not think we will be able to achieve that unless we are all ready to slaughter sacred cows, and that is also true of the SF, and we are prepared to do so if necessary, but I am quite sure that if we do not sit down together and agree that real people's real problems have to be solved, we will not be able to do anything, even this time, despite a great many attempts. It will be to abandon a great many more older people, who will need much more help in the years to come, and therefore I think that the Folketing has a huge obligation to put itself together in the area of the elderly, in the area of health and to think together how to ensure good, dignified care for the elderly and a good life, despite all sorts of different illnesses, when you get older, and so that we can solve the tasks in a holistic way and use resources in the most rational way for the benefit of our citizens. In conclusion, of course, I just have to admit that it is of course the best thing to do with regular teams. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110144	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some brief comments. The first is for Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110149	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I just want to ask: what is the position of the Socialist People's Party that, from 2018 onwards, the number of unskilled elderly care workers has risen from about 5,000 to just about 9,000? It has almost exploded under the Red Government, while at the same time we can see that there are fewer staff per person. older. What is the Socialist People's Party's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110216	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110217	As I also said in my speech, it is a development that has been going on for decades, that is, while the rapporteur's own party itself was in government. So this pointing the finger at who's responsible for what, I don't think we're getting far. On the other hand, I am deeply concerned about a development in which more and more unskilled people have to work in the care of the elderly because there are not enough skilled staff to get. We'll solve that in two ways. We are doing this by taking very good care of unskilled colleagues who are so important for the care of the elderly and by providing them with an offer of training, and perhaps also by compensating them for having gained much experience of their work as unskilled workers in the care of the elderly, but as soon as possible more training for those who, after all, have shown interest in the area. And then I think that continuity, calmness and stability in the care of the elderly and recognition of competence and coherent efforts will be one of the things that will be able to sustain staff in the future as well. In this way we also avoid too many fleeing the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110321	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110322	I think we should keep our mouths shut, because if we read the article of the NB-Economics, which I also referred to in my rapporteur's speech, it says that there are actually fewer employees per year. We have to go back to another red government, Helle Thorning-Schmidt's government before things got so bad. That is why I just want to hear: what kind of dialogue has the Socialist People's Party had with the government and the other red parties about how we get more employees with an education in the care of the elderly? And the Socialist People's Party thinks that this development is in order, where there are fewer employees per year. older and many more unskilled? I just think that this is a development that has been going on in the time that has been the responsibility of the government and has been a parliamentary basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110408	I would just like to emphasise once again that this is a development that has been going on for many years, even when the rapporteur's own party was in government. Everyone has a responsibility that we are in the situation we are in right now. This is deeply unsatisfactory and I am extremely concerned on behalf of my old colleagues because the situation is as under pressure as it is out there. One of the reasons why there are fewer and fewer employees is precisely that it is really, really difficult to recruit staff. I think, for example, that both municipalities and regions should think about how it is going to be more attractive to have a job in a temporary agency than to have a permanent position in a local or regional workplace where you can also use your skills and experience. There is a potential to improve conditions for both employees and the elderly, and I hope that we will be able to agree on this along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110453	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110457	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I am asking this question on the basis of a sincere desire to understand. I have heard the rapporteur argue many times for the trouble and bureaucracy that the rapporteur is experiencing with free elections. I now think that what I'm experiencing out there is that much of this hassle and bureaucracy is just as much connected with the municipality's way of calculating and managing things; that it's just as much the municipality that demands these things. So if you scrap the whole free choice, it will actually still pass. But I'd like to ask about one thing. If the rapporteur had the opportunity to do so and had 90 seats in the Folketing, would one want to abolish free elections? Is that where you are, or do you have a desire to improve the arrangements we have with the free choice so that they become more administratively manageable? Or is there a fundamental desire to remove free choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110554	If we had 90 mandates, I would work the sun black to ensure that the elderly have a much greater influence on what help they should receive, how they should receive the help, and to ensure that they have the opportunity to get help with exactly what is going on with them today. When my old father at one point needed home care very badly and asked for help to get his feet covered because his legs did a lot because of a diabetes disease, an unfamiliar helper says to him: Unfortunately, I can't do that because it's not on my list. And those lists are a product of the free choice scheme, not of the free choice I do not want to take the free choice from people but of the free choice scheme For municipalities of course cannot offer their work without agreeing what to do, what to have for it, how long to get for it. Because if you don't have those deals, you don't know what you've bought and paid for. And the flexibility that may be needed where there would normally be such little swings and carousels in the work of the health sector, if you do it right, there is just no room for when it is the case that you market the tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110710	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110711	We are actually talking about something really interesting here. After all, it is we who decide whether there should be that flexibility, and it also depends on whether we trust private operators to carry out the tasks that are the most central and do not require money for more than what they are doing. It also requires that we show them I visited a private home care company last week, which said that they are going through weekly what kind of services are to be cut away that they cannot justify getting paid for forward-looking. So much of this is also built on the fact that we have a scepticism about the private players and have no confidence that they do not demand more than they deliver. So just to end: can we not regulate ourselves out of this in a wiser way and then keep the free choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110753	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110754	I think that we should try to see whether we cannot regulate this in a wiser way, because what is happening today is certainly not very wise. One might say that the rapporteur's examples are true examples, but that is also an example when a nursing home decides that staff should ask whether the citizens want hair massage when they get their hair washed, when they are in the shower anyway, because then they can buy themselves for it. For private businesses in the care of the elderly live on it. They have to make money on the job, and an extra home help class like this costs DKK 360. And if you're going to make money in this area, you're going to have to have an extra sale, and we're just out on a different kind of slippery slope.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110836	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110839	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good speech. A lot of things I agree with, but I stumbled over the fact that free choice didn't bring better welfare. Let me give you an example. In the north-eastern part of Herning municipality there is a free-care home called Ørnhøj free-care home, formerly it was municipal, and I would really just like to hear whether the rapporteur does not recognise that if you are now an elderly person from Ørnhøj, it may also be quality of life to go to a local nursing home, that is, that there is free choice and that you do not have to go to the municipal but that you can go to a free-care home • that it can also be well-being for the individual. Well, it's a very low-practical example, but if there wasn't a free choice, you might not be able to choose the free care home, and you can do something similar for cleaning, or whatever else might be. If you now know the people who come there or who are there, there can also be some security in it, or it can help to help loneliness or something else. So, can it not be the welfare of the individual that you actually have the free choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110930	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512110931	Yes, and this is not an ideological crusade. For example, I know a lot of free-care homes or self-serving institutions that offer people to live in some other ways, with some other interests or some other activities, and that makes a lot of sense. Moreover, I am very pleased with the very nature of the matter, because it can also do something about the way in which we think about welfare. The reality is that when my father needed a nursing home, he wanted a certain nursing home right near where I live, but there just never came a place. And it's urgent when you get searched into a nursing home, so if you need to use the nursing home guarantee, you have to take the space that's available, and it was 20 km away from where I lived. So the reality is that there is rarely the vacant place where you want to be, when it is the case that the need arises, often late in life. That is why we also need to ensure that all seats are the best seats and fit exactly according to what the citizen needs, and that it is very much the citizen himself who influences what life it is that you have to live in the nursing home, wherever you may end up in the end of your life.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512111043	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512111044	Thank you for your answer. I think that something that might be interesting to dive into something more, among other things. is free choice compared to, it could be profile care homes. I agree with the problem that sometimes it is something that is urgent and that then you cannot choose, but if you have that option after all, I think it is fantastic about the free choice. Some would like a place where it is a profile nursing home that focuses on food, and elsewhere it may be a good garden or all sorts of other things. It might be that the cook would prefer to go to food care homes and that the farmer would rather go to it with nature. Well, it is also part of the free choice, provided, of course, that you are so fresh that you can make a choice. But is it not also the welfare of the individual that, if possible in time, you can actually get an offer that might be better suited to you?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512111129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512111130	I fully agree, and in the ideal world, I would say yes. In the real world, it's just gonna be really hard to get that profile space that you want, because there's a lot of demand in nursing homes, because it's just filled up long before we even start searching, and because we can't be searched until the need is so great that it's right up above, and we have to accept the space that is now available. As far as possible, we must try to ensure that citizens live where they would like to live at the end of their lives, but we must also do our best to ensure that, when this is not possible, it is the best place for the individual anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512111206	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Christina Thorholm from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512111210	The rapporteur cites a sad example of the understanding of services in home care, i.e. that one can, for example, do. can not provide lubrication of the legs when the elderly citizen wants it. I do not think so. It is an interpretation, it is a culture in home care that cannot be explained in that legislation. That home care could have provided it without any problems, and this leads to the conclusion that I hear the rapporteur speaks into, so that we have this minute system because we have private and public suppliers. We don't have to look at it that way. In other words, we have an 85-effort where we do not define it down in minutes, but where we estimate that the supplier who gets the task has been given a description of an effort and some goals that the supplier has to deliver. The same perspective actually lies in the legislation we currently have, but it is also an interpretation and the rigour that lies in the understanding of culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512111312	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512111313	Yes, and of course it can also be just a matter of having agreed a number of minutes, you have to come and give some help. However, it is of no use if it is the case that the need is actually greater than the time allocated to it. I myself think it is my experience with working with citizens who have worked in private and public companies, that there are just different considerations when you get out. And if you are a private company that actually has to earn part of its income on additional sales, then you wouldn't be concerned about saying that we're gonna take care of that. Then we are concerned to offer the citizens that they can buy extra services, and this is happening to a very large extent in the private sector. You can't do that in the municipal sector. Some people want you to be able to do that in the municipal sector, but in return, because you cannot, you will experience a different flexibility, because you will do it anyway. But it is price and tasks that have been done against each other, and it has been done up in time, and it is made up of visitation in relation to the individual, and it is, of course, a matter of making the budget stick together in the end. I just think that some of the money that has been spent on these bureaucratic functions could have been spent better on more nursing or more elderly care.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512111432	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512111433	Yes, we can only agree that the minute tyranny does not benefit anyone. It may have been an economic model, but thinking in packages or hitting • because we have to have a grip on the economy and what is being used could soften it up a lot. And it is probably mostly an ideological understanding whether private and public opinion view it differently in terms of additional sales. We can talk about this in a positive way. There are also many educators who would like to make extra sales in relation to public interventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512111511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512111512	Yes, I think it is an important debate we are having with each other right now, and I wish we had much more time for it. I keep getting stressed by a minute here saying that now you have to finish something so I don't get to explain what I'm thinking. But I really wish we had a room where we could have a better talk with each other about how we are really doing and what kind of barriers are in our way. Because I do not think we will get very far if it is just the case that from now on, after a parliamentary election, we have to say that the red wing will remove free elections and that the blue wing will privatise everything, and that certainly does not help the elderly, and that is why I think we should talk more about this. Because there are some sacred cows that must be slaughtered if we are to achieve a goal. Excuse me, Chairman. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512111556	It's okay. Those are the Rules of Procedure, and it can be amended by a majority of the Folketing if it should be. We thank the SF rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Christina Thorholm from the Radical Left. Here you go, and speaking time starts now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512111614	Yes, it is a good thing to start by saying that Members of Parliament are also subject to a minute tyranny, fortunately for the people, otherwise some of us could speak for a very, very long time! Thank you for your statement, which focuses on an increasing ageing population, we can expect towards 2040, where we will be 380,000 more +65-year-olds, and there is an increase from 272,000 to over 600,000 of +80-year-olds up to 2050. But then we notice in this statement that the user survey shows that the citizens are actually very satisfied with the help they receive and that the people who meet the same employee feel more secure than citizens who have changing employees. And it is not new knowledge for us that sits here, but at the same time it is a knowledge that we have acted on in practice in order to increase quality with funds for permanent teams in 25 municipalities. The work with permanent team • Buurtzorgs, as it is also called • has shown, at least in the Netherlands, that it provides shorter care courses, a higher level of self-help and fewer hospitalisations, which results we would also like to see here, because it increases the quality of life, but it also reduces the number of hands we need for the individual citizen. We are very aware that the proportion of elderly people is increasing from 16 to 25 per cent. for 65-year-olds and from 4 to 10 per cent. for the 80-year-olds. That is why it is incredibly important that we prevent and that more elderly people are fresh older, because the costs will increase much more when we grow older, if the elderly are unable to cope with themselves, and most of all it is important that we have many good years of life at the end of our lives. For the Radical Left, it is important that we think about ageing policy together with a health policy, because it will change the premise of how we feel as older people. And it's not just about the economy, but it's also about the number of employees. The report shows that the recruitment situation towards 2030 will be very difficult, and both the statement and KL focus on this. Over the next ten years, we will be missing up to 40 000 social and health workers, and it is important that we make sure that we have the necessary manpower in time. We need to understand and recognise together that welfare is the backbone of the Danish social model. We in Radicals focus on the fact that it must be possible for social and health assistants from other countries to obtain residence and work permits while they apply for their authorisation to be transferred, just as we know it from doctors and nurses, so that they can learn Danish and be allowed to pass relevant professional tests. After all, we need those hands to ensure good and safe care for the elderly. It also appears that the number of home help recipients has decreased, which can be seen as a positive development, because more people have become more self-reliant, because we have changed the focus to have a more rehabilitating approach to help, so more can more themselves. Of course, we must be aware of whether people receive the necessary help or whether the economy is so pressured that it has led to service degradation. The statement also gives a status on loneliness and covid, and we have got through the pandemic well with a smaller excess mortality, which is, of course, regrettable, but what has our approach meant for our older fellow citizens? The report has less focus on that. VIVE is preparing a report which concludes that the visitor bans were not the best approach and that, as far as possible, they should be avoided in a forward-looking effort, and I think most of us agree with that. Several have also replied in the study that there has probably been a local over-implementation in relation to the national guidelines and that this has had a major impact on the elderly. The medical think tank Atlas has made a report to try to pick up some of the research on negative health consequences that loneliness has when comparing how limited contact the elderly had during corona, and they find strong evidence that it has had health consequences and that it has been extremely straining for them. Many elderly people tell that they isolated themselves in fear of infection from others and that they were away from their networks, and we have heard many stories about relatives who could not be close to their even dying family members, i.e. some completely disastrous consequences of the pandemic we had. And we welcome a recommendation to look more interdisciplinaryly at the action that could be in relation to how we can meet the challenges that may be for older people in relation to also taking them into account. Then we actually think it's a curiosity that this statement talks about the +65-year-olds. I mean, we have a 67-year retirement age and it is increasing. Yes, there has just been a new commission here, so should we not change it in the next statement? For it is a little paradox to talk about the 65-year-olds who are still on the labour market. We are pleased that we have an elderly care, where many elderly people are happy with the help they receive. We need to focus on continuity, because it creates increased well-being and quality, and we need to focus on recognising the importance of the subjects in our society, because otherwise we will continue to have a recruitment challenge in the welfare professions. And with an increasing ageing population, we believe that it is important to focus on preventing chronic suffering, and we should not have an elderly law without a health aspect, and we should also focus more on the elderly and prevention in our health reform work. Because by preventing preventable admissions into closer cooperation between regions and municipalities, we want to create more quality, and that is care for older citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512112339	Thank you very much. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512112343	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for a fine speech by the rapporteur, who really came round. I would like to ask you about the last page of this report on the elderly, page 26, which says that an agreement on these welfare agreements was reached back in September 2021. After all, the agreement on the welfare agreements was the red parties and the blue bloc was outside. Now the government has put forward a new proposal for welfare agreements, which is a complete reflection of them from September 2021, which the Radical Left supported. And I would just like to ask: does the Radical Left support the welfare agreements that the government has now put forward here, you can call the second generation as they are now, or is there something that the Radical Left would like to have changed in order to enter into an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512112432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512112433	After all, we have seen a draft agreement on welfare agreements now a month ago, which reflects a great deal of the latter. We have had a discussion in our group about whether we should lay down where we were last, or whether the right to free elections is not a very important choice. You can hear that if you listen to the Elders Case. And, of course, it is important to start with the people who receive the benefit, that is, that what they see as a quality is also what we get with it. That is why we are pressing for that right to remain there, including in the forthcoming welfare agreements. For what is quality for our citizens is quality for us too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512112524	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512112525	Well, I fully share the point of departure of the Radical Left, as we in the Left do, namely that the welfare benefits that exist must reflect the wishes and needs of the citizens. So I just wanted to say thank you for your statement. After all, when we had the last negotiation process in the autumn of 2021, we asked for a fence stake to be placed in the welfare agreements which ensure that the municipalities cannot de facto abolish the free choice if they had to choose to go down that path. Is this a fence stake that the Radical Left will support? For that is, in fact, still our demand for the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512112600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512112601	Now words are creating reality, and I am talking about the right to free choice; whether it is called a fence stake, or whether we are talking about it in another way, I will not commit myself to here, because then you can come back and say: what did you say? It is important for us that it is included in that agreement, that is, the right to free elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512112627	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. You can't say that. Christina Thorholm Sorry! ) Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten, who has the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512112647	The statement we have received from the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly clearly shows that we are facing very great challenges in the area of the elderly. The area has been under pressure for years from tight municipal budgets, and we have to say that there are too many elderly people who do not get the help they could rightly expect, given that they have contributed to the funding of society through a very long working life. In nursing homes, resources are too few, and they are too few, not least in view of the fact that the composition of citizens in nursing homes has changed. Today, there is a very high proportion of elderly people with dementia who are particularly dependent on care, and therefore it is difficult in many places to provide adequate care and care for the citizens of the nursing homes. For many, the measured home help is too scarce. This applies both in terms of practical assistance, in relation to personal care, and especially in relation to the care which should be a central part of our care for the elderly, but which, unfortunately, is not always the case, because the barely measured time does not allow for more than the absolutely necessary help and sometimes not even that. Older care is also characterised by an organisation where resources are far from being used optimally. The sector has been and still is characterized by structures and work organisation, where time is not always spent either rationally or for the good of the citizen. There is a lack of flexibility and room for the individual employee to use his or her professional judgment. There is a measurement of aid in clearly defined individual services, which is largely the result of the intense exposure of competition to which the area has been subjected and which is a barrier to the development of care for the elderly, which is based more on dignity and on the right of the individual elderly to self-determination. At the same time, it is difficult to recruit the necessary staff for the area. The considerable pressure of work and the often inappropriate way of organizing work play a very important role, as do the unfair wage conditions for social and health workers. The area, like other parts of the public sector, is characterised by a historically determined wage structure which discriminates grossly against typical women's occupations in the public sector. We have an equal pay problem, we have to solve if it is to be possible to attract the necessary labour to the sector. All in all, the situation in the area of the elderly is serious in many ways and, as the Minister's statement shows, the challenges may be much greater in the coming years, because we are facing a very strong increase in the number of older citizens compared to what other rapporteurs have already said and which will be clear to everyone. I hope that we are in the process of a political process that can help reverse developments, and I suppose it is at the heart of this not only of looking at what it looks like but of how we can actually change it. We in the Enhedslist think that it is very good that the government has started work leading towards the adoption of a new law on the elderly. We think it is a wise move that a great deal of emphasis has been placed on the involvement of the Elders Case, by the FOA trade union and other key players in this area, and we think it is particularly wise that a development has also been envisaged from the point of view of the citizen to involve directly representatives from the Elder Councils and to involve the practitioners who are directly involved in the daily work in the legislative preparatory work. We strongly support what we have not concealed in any way on the process that has been initiated. And we have the expectation that we will be able to reach a political agreement on a new law on the elderly, which will provide a better basis for dignified care for the elderly, which is, of course, the key issue. I would also like to say that a new law on the elderly will not be able to do so alone. Although a new legal basis can pave the way for a better way to structure and organise care for the elderly, we cannot avoid the need to add resources to the area. And that is why, now that the negotiations on the economy of the municipalities have begun here a few days ago, I will not fail to take the opportunity to call on the government to respond to the KL's demand to ensure the necessary economy, including for the elderly, otherwise we may fear that we are in a situation in which, from the point of view of reality, we in the Danish Parliament will be discussing how we can strengthen the care of the elderly by means of new legislation, while in practice massive deterioration in the care of the elderly is also taking place in municipal reality. We run the risk that it will also be lacking political credibility if we discuss legislative changes in a very general way, while citizens see that the reality they are facing is characterised by cuts. I would also like to point out that concrete initiatives are needed to ensure the necessary recruitment of staff to the area. There is simply a need to make it more attractive to take a social and health education or a nurse's training and, above all, there is a need to ensure better pay conditions. In our view, therefore, when the Committee on Salaries' Structures has completed its work later this year, it is necessary to decide in the Folketing to add additional funds to the municipalities, which will allow the parties to make a massive increase in the wage level. We will propose from the Enhedslisten what we have also done in the past, that a start be made on 5 billion. kr. In this context, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considers that it is important for the Commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the European Parliament is fully involved in the work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and in the work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. All in all, there are major challenges in the area of the elderly. It is good, we in the Enhedslist think, that the government has so clearly recognised the problem and that work has been started aimed at major changes in this area. But it is also important that action is taken so that the good intentions that are expressed are also translated into concrete changes for the elderly and for the many employees who work in the area of the elderly. I would say that we have a very clear expectation that we will not leave it to the good intentions, but that we will be able to look forward to political negotiations immediately after the summer break; that we will be able to reach an agreement on a new law on the elderly, which can give a different perspective to the way in which the elderly are organised; and that, at the same time, we will have discussions on how more funds can be allocated, because we do not believe that the structure is doing so alone. Finally, as has already been said, we are also looking forward to a debate on what we can do about the major wage problems for older workers. So there is a commitment from here to take an active part in the process that has now been set in motion, but we also want clarification, because it is absolutely essential for both the credibility of the government, but also for that matter for the credibility of the parliamentary majority, that it is also put into practice. With these comments, I should just like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly, not least in this context, for the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512113553	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. The next is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512113607	I have read the statement that must be the least one can expect and I have also written a speech, but I have actually curled it together and thrown it in the trash, and I decided to do so when I heard the SF's rapporteur's speech. For Mrs Kirsten Normann was talking about something very right in relation to the way we work together, and just the dialogue we had on the free choice shows how we need to engage constructively in some talk. Because I think we want the same thing. I do not doubt that we all have the same good intentions for all elderly people in this society and for all Danes at all, but we just look at how we get there differently. It will be a rather unusual speech I am going to make today, and I am not going to make 117 references to page 7 or page 4 of the statement, and that is also why I feel the need to say that I have read it. It is just to stress that it is not for that reason. Because sometimes, frankly, there is a dilemma as a politician, and I want to open up a little bit, and that is a little unusual. Now, in connection with the New Year's speech, the Prime Minister chose to announce that you need to look at this area with new fresh eyes. I thought that was a good thing, and I agreed. But then you must also choose as a politician and, in particular, as an opposition politician, how to go about that cooperation. I can easily choose to have an approach where I say that I think it is deeply irresponsible that the Prime Minister announces such a great change in our society that creates a lot of expectations for our elderly people, for their relatives and for their employees, but a lot of preparatory work has not been done which, like this work can be set in motion. So it has been five months and there is a consultative committee and three expert groups. It is not very fast that is in the process, and the cynic could choose to ask whether it was related to the fact that shortly before you had received criticism from the Elders Case that you did too little in this area, and then it got greasy into a New Year's speech. I can easily choose that approach, and to be quite honest, that approach is also sometimes tempting, because I say something which is also controversial: the current Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly, at the time as an opposition politician, also adopted a style in which it went very hard and where the role of opposition politician was very pronounced. It was noted just how many legislative proposals there were in the legislative programme. I could also imagine that the current minister had attached himself to the statement, how much the part relating to real initiatives filled and how much there was a list of municipal agreements. You could easily choose that style, you could pass it on to us? Does it do any good for our elders? Does this mean that we are achieving goals in relation to the things that we agree should be done? No, it doesn't. Therefore, we just have to insist that there is something more important than christiansborgfnids, even if there is a parliamentary election around the corner. That is why I choose to try to have a constructive approach to the work that has been started. I think the presentation we had at the end of the consultative committee and the expert groups made me positive and made me optimistic about some talented people who are developing something we can use for something. However, we can only use it for something if we choose that it is our approach to the discussions if we choose to leave the past behind and leave it behind, even though we may feel that we owe someone something justly, so to speak, because we do not think that there has always been a case-by-case approach in the past. And just as well there may be a change of government, and then there are some who feel they owe something to the next team. But we are just not worthy of our mandates, in here, if it all sinks into it. I don't know if that's what the minister's laughing about, but I don't think it is. If that's what the minister's laughing about, then I think... well, that's not what the minister was thinking about. Good. This is, of course, a very good example of what we can attribute to each other by intentions. We had the same situation recently, where we had a consultation which was about the use of antipsychotic medicines, and where christiansborg was also involved. The minister had prepared himself for the figures, in relation to whether there is a greater or less consumption in the municipal nursing homes versus the private ones, because the minister had an assumption that that was what was, so to speak, my corner • my ideological crusade in the consultation. And I cannot really blame the Minister for that, because there has been a lot of consultation with changing parties that have had that purpose over time. It would have been more profitable for our elderly people if the Minister had spent his preparatory time diving into the figures and looking at whether, when we now highlight nursing homes as a tool, we could actually see that it is working. I have just seen today that there have been new figures which actually show that antipsychotic drug consumption has fallen for the elderly who live outside nursing homes while it has increased for our elderly in nursing homes. It may of course concern me as to whether the efforts have worked in relation to nursing home doctors. I just sincerely hope that we can have a good process in the autumn. I remember that at one meeting the Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned that we could actually have a need to sit down and try to set aside a little more time. It is not because I am saying that we are all going on a hut, but somehow I think there is something appealing in it, because this area is so important that we must insist on finding each other. As climate and energy rapporteur, I have made speeches a thousand times about the generation contract; the bond of responsibility that runs from me as a politician to my two girls who represent future generations; we have a responsibility to ensure that there is a sustainable planet for them. But the generational contract also runs up. The responsibility also falls to the parents who have taken care of me when I was little and to their parents who have taken care of them when they were young. So we owe it to society to ensure the best life for the elderly for those who helped to lay the foundations for the welfare society that we have today and that has provided absolutely their share. There are many quite obvious things we need to look at. Obviously, this free choice thing is important to us Conservatives. It is not ideological teasing, it is important to us. And I also believe that self-determination is important for all of you in this Chamber. Then we have different views on how to get there. One of the big challenges I think is still gone in terms of securing free choice and now it's so little technical • is this billing model. This is the way you look at what kind of payment private people have to pay to do a job. Last week I was in Frederikssund and visited a free nursing home there. There they told that they had gained insight into the municipality's calculations. There you could, among other things. According to them see in the calculation I have not even verified it, I owe it to say the municipality had made of the municipal home care where they had to make up what the cost was, for example, that they took the car park. Then they said that we don't use it at night, so there are a lot of hours a day, we don't use it, so we can write down our cost of cars there because they don't drive at night. And in this way, the cost of looking smaller would have to be compensated for by a lower amount for the private sector. It seems super illogical. Well, you can't. It's just unspeakable. We have had a debate in this Chamber on this. We tabled a motion for a resolution. A work has been started under the auspices of KL in relation to this guide. Unfortunately, I hear that what comes from there is not going to change so much. So that's something we're going to keep pursuing. When I was in Frederikssund, I was also out trying to ride home care. Then I saw such a very good example of one of the challenges I hope we can solve together when we come to discuss the elderly law in the autumn. We were at an older woman's house. She had help several times a day. We were going to help her change her shoes from training shoes to sandals, because it was not pleasant to wear training shoes all day, and the physical therapist had been there to train with her. I asked why the physiotherapist didn't just change his shoe before he walked out the door, because it would have been a little more appropriate than we were going out there again. But it was not within the physiotherapist's duties. It was not an obligation that they had, and it had not been possible to talk about the fact that, of course, they did just that. In Frederikssund you have a quality requirement that when you have an agreement that home care should come, there is a window of plus/minus 1 hour. So when you had an agreement with her that she had to change shoes and let's say she had agreed that it should happen at 12 o'clock then in theory it could be between 12 o'clock. 11:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. 13.00. This means that that woman should stay at home if she wanted to change shoes in a two-hour window after she had been trained rather than be able to move out in the sunshine that day. It's totally crazy. That doesn't make any sense. We must be able to do better than that. Another thing I found instructive about that visit was to look at how important the administrative part is also in relation to home care. You know that when you come out as a politician on these visits, you sometimes think that they spend a little time on powerpoint presentations etc. You want to get out and suck in. And I was also allowed to meet one of the administrative staff here, and it was a little against my expectations... I must admit enormously educational. Because I heard how the phone rang and the citizens called in and said that my home helper has arrived too early today, can we have it moved to later in the day? Some of those dilemmas. I could see how she sat with a system where you could sit and move around on the visits that were, and make it all go up into a higher unit. She could, because it was a smaller home care unit, where there was a chance to make those remodels. It gives me incredibly much hope when it comes to making this model with less autonomous teams. And I think it is a good thing for the money that has been set aside for it. I think it is well spent. That is one of the things I hope we can continue to work on in the autumn. I think this is one of the areas I think I heard the Minister say once again where the greatest tension has come, i.e. the greatest tension in management, and I think that goes beyond quality. I chose to use my 10 minutes of speaking time a little differently today. There is a lot I would have liked to talk about in relation to recruitment challenges and all sorts of other things in this area, which the statement also contains very interesting about. But let it be a wish that we can reach each other constructively in the autumn, because I think we owe it to us to deliver solutions in this area, because it is a generation that has done a very great job for us, and now we owe it to them too. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512114614	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First of all, it is Mrs Birgitte Vind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512114620	Thank you for that and thank you very much to the rapporteur for a very nice, different and liberating speech from the rapporteur. That's nice fresh. In fact, I think that the rapporteur was able to say some very constructive things. Thank you for that. There was just one small detail about the process to which I would just like to make a comment. It is true that the Prime Minister said in his New Year's speech that we should now clear the table, but before that, I would just like to point out that there has been a process where there have been some senior summits, and there has been a close contact with the hinterland, you might say, with the Elders Case and the FOA, so we are not on a shitty bottom. The process now under way with the FOA, the Elders Case and a lot of other players in addition is based on it to a large extent. Then I also hear an enormous amount of energy from the rapporteur when she opens the ball and says: let us work together on this. I'm just super happy about that, 'cause this isn't about us. After all, it is about the elderly and about the things we have to do well. So what I want to hear from the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur would like to take part in some of the study trips we are planning in committee, where we are going to talk to some of the municipalities that have actually gained some experience. I think that could be very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512114731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512114732	It is absolutely true that there have been various initiatives: the Marienborg Summit, senior summits, etc. I am also planning, if the calendar allows, to attend the open meeting in Herlev this afternoon. I think it's good to get input from outside. But that is again the question: In what spirit do you take things down? As such, I think it is constructive and fine that it has been there, but if I am to be completely honest, it is not something that has moved the world. I have participated in many of the events. There have been some fine presentations etc. But it's a rather sluggish process. So let the past be past, and let's try to look ahead and see how we make this run in a good way. It is always relevant to involve some of the players. I think that is one of the things the Minister has done well to do in relation to the game and also in relation to the expert groups, in other words that there are some everyday experts with who can give their input. I think that is very valuable.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512114830	Is there a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512114833	[Sound out]... I really just want to say thank you for the feedback, because I really think there's a need for us to talk rather than stand in each of our corners. This is just such an important matter. It is too important for it to be all about ideology. It's really about us meeting. So I just want to thank you very much for the constructive approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512114851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512114852	I think I'll leave that so fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512114857	Then there is a brief remark from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512114900	Thank you for that, and I'm sorry about the speech, if it was really my fault. But that's how everyday life is in the care of the elderly, and you also think you know what to do, but when you get inside, you realize it's something else that's important today. It may in fact be very healthy, and I think it will also be healthy in the kind of debate we have here. Thank you also for taking down that we will have to, like shaking the bag or slaughtering some sacred cows each or at least get sit down and get wise together on what is right and what is wrong, because there are immensely many myths and space for a lot of accounts I can also part of if it should be. But my errand was that in the last period of government we already had a talk about the issue of ensuring better insight into what is right and what is wrong, and when the rapporteur now mentions the example of the municipality, which is open about transport costs, I think that transparency is a mutual thing, because transparency in relation to private companies is also difficult and sometimes impossible. So could it be imagined that the future would also have to offer public opinion in the administration, both in the private and in the public sector, in order to learn what is really going on in the two sectors?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512115014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512115015	The fact that the municipality of Frederikssund chose to hand over these figures is the result of the fact that it is compulsory that they should be extradited. So that way it wasn't such a heroic deed. But I also think that this is what one can expect, so that, when it is what forms the basis for other people's calculations, there is insight into it. I must admit that during the year I have been rapporteur for the elderly, I have not been brought to the attention of the many areas where there are specific problems in relation to lack of transparency, in relation to the tasks carried out in the private sector. I would very much like to hear more about that. It's not for me. Well, I like private offers, that's fine, but for me, it's because I want there to be a choice, and I believe that everyone gets better by the fact that there's a choice. The City of Copenhagen was better at ensuring that it was the same employee who came because there were private players who were good at it and pressured the municipality to learn from it. So that's what's wanted for me in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512115114	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512115115	I have also mainly become aware of this when I have talked to employees who have worked in the private sector and who have seen that freedom of expression is not the same in a private company as it is in a public company, for there are simply things to say, and that has something to do with business secrets or something to do. But we must try to talk about that in more detail afterwards. I just want to sign for the speech once again, and I also think that there is a breeding ground for drinking some coffee somewhere, whether it should be on a cabin ride, or whether we can think of something else, let it depend on someone's planning. So thank you for your speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512115154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512115154-2	Although I am an older rapporteur, I have not actually grown up enough to drink coffee, but if we can handle it over a Pepsi Max, I am also ready to continue talking. We need to be open to these issues, and that is one of the things that is sacred to us, because we Conservatives have been extremely hard on the clipboard system, it is one of the biggest elements of our financial act, but we are also well aware that we may have to discuss whether we can guarantee that self-determination for the elderly in other ways, if I cannot convince you that this is the right method.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512115226	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512115238	Thank you for that and thank you for allowing me to participate in the minute tyranny here by 10 minutes. I think we're gonna make it to the opposite of many others in the care of the elderly. After all, the policy of the elderly has been a matter for the Danish People's Party since we were founded in 1995. It is, among other things. because we owe all the elderly a dignified old age and a great thank you, because they are the ones who have built up our welfare societies. It is therefore only fair that we should ensure that we can have a dignified old age with respect. After all, we are a country with a high level of welfare, but, as such, we also have a high tax burden on it, and that should also make it possible for us to ensure proper welfare and security when we grow old. In particular, we focus on the many Danes who are without the large pension savings. After all, there are many who live alone on a folk pension and maybe have a little bit of ATP next door, and these are the ones we have been focusing on for many years, and we have still gone. That's why, among other things, The senior check came in. These are also the ones that I think we in the Danish Parliament have a broad focus on, among other things. to make supplements for medicine, heat, housing and all other necessities of everyday life. And so it is also those who still need to be focused on, especially now, in these times of rising prices, because it can be difficult for many pensioners to get things together when there is extra pressure in these months of rising inflation. Getting older can be a challenge in a wide range of areas, not only in economic terms, but it may also be that you have to deal with impaired physics. It may be that you have to accept that you have a slight impairment of thinking ability, or that the speed of your body is not there and you become a little slower. But we do not think we should put up with a life on the brink of society. You must be able to have a life where you can afford to make a trip with your grandchildren, or where you can take part in a family event such as a Christmas Eve or a birthday and can actually also give a gift. Because getting older must not lead to exclusion from the community. Among other things: Loneliness, which I also mentioned in a brief remark, can be bad enough, but it should not therefore be due to economic or welfare reasons. This is among other things. What is our role here in the Folketing is to ensure that there is that framework. Fortunately, we can say that most older people have a good and rich life, and that is super good. There are a lot of people who, thanks to good health and mobility, can make use of the offers that are around the municipalities, both municipal offers, but also in the many associations that are good at it, it sounds a little crooked to pull people out of the houses and get them to come along, whether it is krolf or all the other fun things they go to out there. I have my own in-laws running around all over the world, and that's good. That's really positive. But there are also many older people out there who are struggling with something that I think there is too little focus on, that is loneliness. It's a huge problem for a lot of people out there and also a big taboo for many, because it's hard to get out and tell people that you're struggling with loneliness and that you actually need someone to talk to or to get out and go to something social or other thing. We know, of course, that when people suffer from loneliness, they are more often ill and thus also more dependent on care, thereby also having a significantly lower quality of life. So in every way we have a common interest in getting something done about loneliness, and not in order for it to remove focus from the fact that there must also be good practical help and there must be good personal care when you need it, but loneliness is something I think is taboo in our society and something we should do something further about. What we then have to do is also many times harder to say when it is such a taboo subject, but civil society, that is, the associations out there, is making a huge effort in advance. But I think it is also worth focusing on how we, as Parliament, may be able to strengthen that area and how we can make more flexibility in care. It has also emerged from the debate that many, of course, appreciate that there must be proper rules and that you can have personal care. But what's it gonna do if you sit around and you don't think it's fun to live anymore? It may well be that there should be more focus on how to actually get some quality of life, so you weren't lonely. And then it might be that one could at least say as a free choice: then I'd rather we didn't get cleaned up today, but wouldn't you just sit down and have a cup of coffee? This may be something of a low-practical nature in which we must ensure that there is greater flexibility. And that can be a source of tension in municipal planning, because you may be entitled to have a clean x number of times, but if it is a completely different need you have as an elderly person because you are lonely, then we have to look at some of these things, so that you can at least choose for yourself. When the Prime Minister gave her New Year's speech, she announced a new law on the elderly, yes, a completely new beginning in the area of the elderly, with less bureaucracy and more freedom. In the Danish People's Party, we chose to look at that message with positive eyes. Of course, also with a healthy skepticism, because what exactly are we putting into that framework? At the same time, the Prime Minister proposed to virtually release the municipalities from state rules. But the question is: what exactly does this mean? Well, that means, for example. the right to restrict the freedom of choice of the elderly. You saw that you could do with, among other things. this free municipality experiment, where the municipalities were given the opportunity to make themselves an exclusive supplier in the area of the elderly. In fact, we think that is deeply problematic and, as such, economically irresponsible. But an old law is really urgent. That's what I hear all the rest of you say. That is why we are also eagerly looking forward to the government's initiative this autumn, because we in the Danish People's Party actually believe that it is important in this context that we look at the self-serving institutions and care homes, because many of them can also offer something else. I think it can be a good addition to the municipal system. It should not replace the municipal system, but be a good addition to it. Because the choice ensures that there is some competition. Well, if it's a municipality that has the exclusive right, then there's no competition there's nowhere else to go. I think it might be good for the elderly to be able to choose a profiling home or something else that suits them or something that is • as I mentioned in a short remark • in just the local area where they live. I think that's actually good. That freedom is important to me in a future law on the elderly. In fact, the Danish People's Party also proposed an elderly law in the autumn of 2020, because we see it as a bit of a bottom-up task with a very concrete law with instructions in the area of the elderly. It has to be something that also guarantees certain basic rights. It should then be free for the municipalities how they want to fill these frames out. For it is quite fine for the municipalities to be freed more freely, but it should not be something that will then become freedom of deterioration. That is not the aim of it. So we are not in favour of freedom for the municipalities. We think that the objective of an old law should be freedom for the individual elderly, freedom also for employees and management to organise their working day appropriately, so that it makes sense for them. I mean, away with a lot of this retail management and more freedom for the employees to figure out how they want to set up the day, and also to talk to the elderly about exactly what you need that day. But there must also be a number of minimum standards if we can put it that way. I can try to give you an example. There has been a debate out there about how many night shifts there are, for example. must be pretty low-practical in a nursing home. We in the Danish People's Party think that it is quite obscene that you can experience that there can be one night shift in a nursing home with perhaps 30 residents, and sometimes there can be more. I actually believe that if it happened in a daycare centre that there was a teacher for 30 children, there would be an outcry from the parents, rightly so. That is quite appropriate. I guess it's something that's gonna be on TV in the best time. You can understand that. But it is also just to say: why do you put up with it in the area of the elderly? Should there not be minimum standards in such an area? Else from Aarhus, who recently died, was another who got his seat in the best of time. She was tragically experiencing this neglect of care, and it was on a hidden camera. You experienced both rough treatment, indifferent employees, not necessarily evil, I don't think so, but because the conditions and working conditions and resources were something that encouraged that behavior. I also think that this is something that an old-age law requires, that is to say, for the professional skills of the care staff and their approach to care, and that they have an empathetic approach to it. There it is, among other things. A challenge, you can see in the statement that there is a huge increase in the number of people who have not been trained in the area, and that may at least be something that is pushing for the problems we have seen. And I think we have to deal with that too. Of course, we must try to get rid of the documentation regime as far as possible. That is why we think it is positive that it is also clear from the report that a user satisfaction study should be carried out, which constantly follows up on what the elderly really want. It can change a lot. Some greatly appreciate cleaning; others would rather that there might be some care and some time to sit and talk and enjoy. And it's kind of good that you do some research so you can adjust it to that. I also find it interesting that the statement mentioned here and I am saying it probably wrong • Buurtzorg model from the Netherlands, which shows that if you have permanent self-governing groups, where the employees themselves go into some interdisciplinary teams and support the citizens, it actually has incredibly many good effects, both shorter care periods, lower sick leave and less staff replacement. In this way it makes sense that if you meet the same employees every day, it gives some security among the elderly, but it also gives some security among the employees that they come out to the same citizens and have the same to work with. I think it's great that there's been an experiment in 25 municipalities, and that's just something we should try to see if you can spread out, because I think it makes great sense. There are many areas in the area of the elderly that we could address in such a debate here, and I cannot reach them all, because of the minute tyranny and the clock, which are ticking down and soon hitting the 10 minutes, so I should rather round off and just say that we too are eagerly awaiting the government's proposals here for an old law and the negotiations that are coming about them. We will engage constructively in this, and I really believe that everyone has the same interest in it, and that is, of course, something we need to focus on. And then I will repeat what I said from the beginning: In the Danish People's Party this is a matter of priority. We will keep the focus that we have had over all the years, so focus on the weakest elderly both regarding the economy and perhaps especially in an old people's law those who need the care, but so that we are also on the employees' side, because they are the ones who are also crucial in this. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512120250	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And you can take pictures later, because now I'd like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs and the elderly to come to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512120305	Thank you for that, President. We will keep within the strict time limits that we are subject to here, so that everything is going according to plan. We have spent a long time discussing, and then planning can leave; that is quite fair and fair. But the last time we had this statement, and now it is a bigger one than myself, because there it was the current Minister for Health who was the minister for the elderly, he curled his speech together when he went to the platform and said that I put it away. It was then with the backdrop that he had now had to stand and listen to bourgeois rapporteurs be shaken by the state of care for the elderly after having been in power for a number of years, when the money was not kept up with the increasing number of older people, and that is why it was such a little bit: Hello, can we not have some honesty, some honest talk, in this discussion? I think, of course, that the Conservative rapporteur did something, and I hope and indeed also feel in this Chamber that we are prepared, namely to have a very, very open mind and to have all our individual hoops put aside when we discuss the new Older Law. Because if we all insist that we can think new, but that in the area that is one's own heart blood, we must do as usual, we end up having locked ourselves so much that we cannot actually get our elderly care wrestled free and secure more time for caring. So, although a few political cheekhorses from the Conservative rapporteur just followed before we arrived at the content, I would just like to sign her from here, but in this way, I think, all the rapporteurs here today, for there has been enormous openness in relation to the need for us to think about new things and for us to get our care of the elderly out of the bureaucracy, the management and the layers of demands that we have always put on top of our care for the elderly for decades, which is now threatening to stifle it and which not only steals time from the employees, but also steals labour satisfaction. I have even heard of the concept of moral stress, which is the term of an employee who has run around and hung in a bellstring to live up to all the things that are on the driving list next to the performance catalogue, and yet goes home with stomach pain, because she is most often well aware that she has not done it, as her professionalism and, by the way, her empathy, her wise head and her warm heart said that she should do it in relation to the elderly. It's just from here a very, very big thank you, because there's that openness. It was an insanely exciting discussion, which was, I think, when the SF's rapporteur was on the platform, but several were in it, the Danish People's Party and the Conservatives, about free elections. It should be strange if the free choice clause that was made 20 years ago when it was introduced, hit completely bulseye, is chiseled in stone from tablets carried down from the mountain and that we can never do better. That's supposed to be weird. It would be one of the only times in the history of Denmark that we, as politicians, have not come up with a model that can then be improved and further developed, and I think that the former elder rapporteur, during the last parliamentary term, for the Danish People's Party and I worked a lot with this, how we can actually have free choice, where there is self-determination, where it is not just free choice of the logo of the employee who comes in and delivers the help, or what is on the paycheck when it comes in, but where it is actually a real self-determination, including in everyday life, for the elderly. That is why I would just like to say a big thank you from here for the fact that, on the whole, it seems that when we all agree that when we enter that room around the Older Law, we have a bottom-up task in leaving all dogmas, all sticks and all locked positions outside the door, because we have to do better for our elderly. It is too pressured out there today, and as you all have, I think, been about in your rapporteur speeches, when I look down over it, we are getting older, and although there are also several healthy days and good, healthy years where you can manage yourself, there will be more who need help in a situation where, to put it mildly, the employees are not hanging on the trees. We have known these figures for a long time, and they are not surprising. So it was first just a receipt for a really good debate that makes me optimistic about the discussions we're going to have in the autumn, and one of you said I didn't get written down who it was that there are really many dilemmas in this, and that's there. There are many dilemmas in this, and there are none of the rules that we have put in place by malicious will. We have introduced them in order to achieve one thing, but we can also just note that they have quite often had a lot of inappropriate or unwanted consequences, which, under one heading, it can be said, very often meant that the employee should sit in front of a computer screen with a stack of paperwork and clicking off, I do not know how many times in a system to be allowed to do so, their professionalism and, in fact, their work description should be the most important thing about, namely closeness, care and care with the individual elderly's self-determination. Now I'm not giving the speech I had written down either. I had otherwise listed how I think the Finance Law parties are so humble when they themselves do not point to any of the things we have done in relation to the challenge we face, where there are more unskilled people in our care for the elderly. It goes without saying that it reaches 40%. In the case of the posts that are being opened up cannot be filled with skilled staff, then unskilled staff must be employed. And the figures which the rapporteur of the Left will probably be standing up in a moment and asking me whether I am going to deal with do not reflect the whole reality. If you have visited a nursing home, you will know that there are quite a lot of people who do not have extraordinary jobs, because you have to do so in order to make things work together, and sometimes also in order to take social responsibility in relation to flex jobs and other things. Therefore, those figures can be used in such a political mess, but they are not in themselves extremely interesting if we want to discuss what kind of reality is out there in everyday life and what kind of employees you can get. What we did in the Finance Act, with which no one has been bragging about here on the platform, was to say that we are allocating funds to the municipalities so that we can hire 1,000 more so that we can get something done about the pressure on work, but that means that 1,000 of the unskilled who are in the profession can go to sosu school and either train themselves as a social and health worker or social and health assistant and get the job back again. 1.8 billion kr. is laid down in the Finance Act, and it is quite concrete results that lie on top of the fact that we now have a government and a majority who actually believe that the starting point for all our other policy is that we should cover the demographic trait, that is to say that there will be more children and more elderly people, and it was my main criticism of the previous government that it would not. You had minus growth and minus growth in the first two economic agreements, and then you just had the skin on your nose a little bit, not enough to cover the demographics. At the same time, it was said that it does not matter because you can simply debureaucratise without doing anything to secure a different framework. Then it may be that we think we are slow, but we set in motion 30 development projects in our very first financial law, and they have to get some way down the road before we can see what kind of work we can take further into this work. So I also think that the criticism is getting a little ugly, and I really do not want to spend much more time on that now, because I think we should stick to this very constructive spirit that has been in this debate, where we are all committed to ensuring that more time is given to care in our care for the elderly. So I will not stand here and list what we have done in relation to the economic growth of the sosu schools and better opportunity for people without training or with outdated training to be able to train themselves on increased daily allowances. We have set aside nearly 200 million. kr. Just before Christmas to regular teams, and I am so glad that no one has been on the platform here who has stood and said it was a bad idea. It looks good, and so I turn over and skip a lot of things into this list, because you can read it in the statement. Fortunately, a great deal has happened in the area of the elderly. That doesn't mean we're in the finish line. This means that we have made up our minds with the negative spiral, where every year in the area of the elderly it was about where we can find ever more creative savings for the savings catalogues in municipal budgeting because we have covered the demographics and we saw in the financial law context with the Finance Law parties, and thanks for that, have built up on top with developments in the direction in which we think care for the elderly should go, among other things. with funds for permanent teams and other development initiatives. So from here, I just want to thank you for your cooperation. It is good to hear that at least some of you will also be coming to our citizens' meeting in Herlev this afternoon. We're having citizens' meetings all over the country. Hundreds of employees, older members of the council, local leaders, relatives and citizens meet up to these meetings. There is a huge amount of energy, and I also believe that those citizens, all those people, will expect us to enter a space in the autumn where we will actually go to these difficult dilemmas and ensure that we can have an elderly care where there is significantly less bureaucracy, less over-management and, on the other hand, more time for the self-determination of the individual elderly and the professional skills of the employees. Then I cannot stand here on the platform and let that be the last thing I say, so we will have time for the debate, without also going into the covid-19 and the whole coronapandemic. After all, it is a pandemic that hit the world and hit our lovely country and that has had serious consequences for our entire society, but of course some particularly serious consequences for our oldest fellow citizens. Our aim as a government was, of course, to protect the most vulnerable citizens from covid-19 and save lives, not least among the residents of our nursing homes, and we have succeeded in doing so far along the way, but we do not get around the fact that the various measures taken to prevent infection in nursing homes have had consequences, both for the residents and their relatives. I am very aware that the time of decommissioning has led to loneliness and social isolation among many elderly people, and that is why we also regularly and together with the broad majority of the Danish Parliament launched a series of aid packages and initiatives to get the elderly through as well and as gently as possible by among other things. to support activities that went against loneliness. Therefore, on the other side of the corona, the focus is on counteracting loneliness and creating well-being with concerts, events etc. under the auspices of the support packages for the experience industry, and yesterday we launched for a fantastic event the national partnership against loneliness and started the national conversation we are going to have. It is not only the elders who are lonely, but also the elders, and I very much agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I wrote down because I thought it was so fine to say that what's the point of sitting with a really clean floor if at the same time you don't really want to be alive anymore because you're lonely. That's very true, and it's part of the exercise with the Older Law. It is to insist that you are not just a series of practical benefits that need to be resolved when you are older. You are actually a whole person and you have to have quality of life and you have to have life content, and that is why we need to have an old law where you are not reduced to being a patient because you have grown older, but that you are the whole person you have been through life. So just to finish off with corona, I would like from here to send a very great thank you to those employees who have made a huge effort to protect our most vulnerable elderly from corona. I've had the opportunity to talk to a part of you here after the coronapandemic, where you can get around again, and your everyday life with protective equipment and all the extra trouble that's been going on hasn't been easy. You have been conscientious and worked hard and have also had to lift your assignments.The assignment hasn't been shut down in the elderly area, while you have had to work under quite different conditions and have to shield some of the most vulnerable elderly. It hasn't been easy, and that's why I'd like to send you a big thank you here today. Then I would just like to say a big thank you to my fellow Members in this Chamber. The problems in our care for the elderly do not solve themselves, they do not go away either, and therefore I am just really glad that it seems that everyone is going to go really constructively into working with a new law on the elderly with few supporting values and as little centralised over-management as possible from us. It will be difficult, there is no doubt about that, but there is no doubt that it is absolutely necessary. So thank you for that and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512121506	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512121511	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for his statement, and I would also like to thank him for his speech. Now, of course, we have discussed this here with free choice repeatedly, and the government has put forward a proposal for welfare agreements, which we have also discussed several times, and which, in fact, opens up the possibility for municipalities to derogate from and abolish the free choice of the elderly. And I'd like to deal with a quote by Elders Bjarne Hastrup, who says to B.T. 10 May on the Government: There's nothing they're putting up with that actually makes things out there better for the elderly. I would really like to ask the Minister: if the Minister is now again proposing, with the new set of welfare agreements, that the municipalities can de facto abolish the opportunity for elderly people to choose food service, cleaning, home help, that is, the entire free choice portfolio, then what is the Minister's comment on Bjarne Hastrup? What's that gonna do? Where is it that care for the elderly is better if we close down the free choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512121621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512121622	Thank you. Yes, we have discussed this incredibly many times, and that is how politics gets a little stupid; I don't know if you can say that. But the government stands guard over free elections. We do not believe that we should abolish it. However, as I also said in my statement, it is sad if the only choice you can have is which logo is on the coat of the employee who comes out into your home. I do not think that is the most meaningful free choice for the elderly. That is why I find it strange that it seems that the Left has locked itself on to the fact that the free choice one by one should look unchanged, that is, as it did when it came up in 2001 and that it cannot be improved. I think that is a strange approach to it. Then I just want to say that I think Bjarne Hastrup might want to be quoted correctly. What he says in the quote that is being used is not about the government; it is about the concrete proposal for welfare agreements. One of the things that the Elders case has called for is that the municipalities should also be obliged to remove their rules, and that is exactly what we are doing with the welfare agreements. We are removing legislation in exchange for them to be specifically obliged in the municipalities to remove their rules. At least that's one of the things I've been hearing about the Older case for quite a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512121727	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512121729	The minister doesn't answer what I'm asking. What I am asking is: how does it make care for the elderly better, that the minister allows the municipalities to abolish citizens' right to free choice, in other words take rights from the citizens, so it is the municipality that decides who is to deliver the food and what is to be on the menu; so it is the municipality that decides, for example. who is to clean and when? After all, I hear the Minister say on the platform that you really want free choice and that you want better care for the elderly. There are not limits to all the positive words that are pouring out of the Minister's mouth, but when I ask specifically about one element of the welfare agreements, the Minister will refrain from doing so. Where is it that it will be better for the elderly if we depart from the free choice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512121811	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512121812	But I'm not gonna stay out of this, and we've discussed this incredibly many times. And I will try to remain in the constructive spirit in which I think the debate has been in, at least from the others who have stamped into the debate on free choice. It should be weird if we could not make that scheme even better. I think there is too little self-determination for the elderly. I also think that there are too few different solutions available today. There's this dichotomy where you can get the same on the shelves of the same system from private and public, and then you can buy something from some private. And it can also be said, when we talk about home-care facilities, that there may be some elderly people who are too heavy to get into private homes. Should we not try to have an open mind and see if we could not develop something even better and provide even greater scope for self-determination among the elderly? It is strange if you do not want to enter into that discussion, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512121859	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512121903	I think it is important that, in the process that is under way, we not only note that there are problems in the care of the elderly, but that we also identify the causes. In such a debate here and I have noticed it before there are several examples of how foolish care for the elderly seems to be organized. There are, for example: the elderly citizen who cannot get his stockings in one morning and cannot get help because the benefit is not searched. Could the Minister give a few thoughts as to why this is so? Is it just because it is fools who have organized the care of the elderly out in the country's municipalities? Is that ideological? Does anyone have a particular ideological urge to make this difficult? Or could it possibly be linked to the competition exposure which makes it very difficult to price it when you outsource an area if you do not have a relatively fixed price structure?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512122001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512122003	Thank you for that and thank you for one, I think, very relevant question. After all, we have been given an elderly care, which is in its entire being governed by the rule of performance. I've had a meeting with a lot of people, but among other things. with a municipal manager who reflected on one of these municipalities, who are engaged in development efforts, which we have funded in our first Finance Act. He said that it is as if we have been so concerned about creating good systems that we have completely forgotten to have the citizen in mind. The whole issue of new public management and the whole marketing of care for the elderly is one of the things that has helped red tape it. In addition to the fact that I believe that the elderly deserve a higher degree of self-determination in terms of content than there is today, there is also a need for us to ask ourselves whether we could do this in a better way than we do today in terms of governance and what generates bureaucracy. So that is clearly part of the reason. I don't think that's the only reason. In a sense, it has to be said that some of this is also our fault, because if there are complaints and bad individual cases, then we demand that we have access to a whole lot of figures and data. The same is done locally in the administrations. So I think there are many different things that over the years are built on top of each other. But it is quite clear that it is one of the drivers that is and has been.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512122116	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512122118	I therefore very much agree that it is complex, and my errand is actually just to say that I think it is important that, when we have to find new solutions and, so to speak, start over, we really do come into depth and get an analysis of the reason why it is organised as it is, and not just note that it is so. So I would really just like to say thank you for the commitment, as I understand it, that we are also going into depth and really trying, when we are going to regulate this area in another way, to highlight the causes, otherwise I am afraid that we will not find the right solutions. But I hear that there is a commitment that we are going through a lot.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512122158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512122159	Now we've had to hear a lot about things going too slowly. It can be said that in the area of the elderly there have been some things going on from the very first financial law and from the very first movement, and we have set in motion work on expert groups and advisory panel • 60 people who are currently chewing on the very hardest dilemmas for us. It is employees, managers, professors, all the stakeholders who are currently chewing on the very hardest dilemmas for us, and I think I can say that they themselves do not think they have had a long time to do so. This is, at least, significantly shorter than the year a consultancy agency had for it under the previous government. But it is an expression of the fact that we actually want to get quite a lot deeper than has been the case in these discussions. This is also why we say that we start with a blank sheet of paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512122240	Thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked to speak, and that concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512122251	The debate is open and I will give the floor first to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512122316	First of all, many thanks to the authors, Mrs Bjerre and Mr. Erling Bonnesen, for this resolution to develop a database on the climate impact of food, which will form the basis for a voluntary climate labelling scheme for food. It is, in fact, a work that we on the part of the government have already started, so the Left is kicking in an open door. Climate labelling of foodstuffs is very much at the heart of the government, and that is why we have already decided that a state-controlled climate label should be developed on the country's food products, and we do so as the very first country in the world at all. It must be a label that is easily transparent and it must help consumers make green and climate-friendly choices. So I fully agree with the proposers that a voluntary food climate label should be introduced in Denmark. Because there's really something to pick up, if that's how we do it here, on the climate accounting. The average Dane emits the equivalent of 2 tonnes CO 2 5.5 kg per day. At the same time, there are in fact six out of ten Danes who would like to eat more climate-friendly. However, three out of four experience in return that it is difficult to see through what climate footprints the food has. My ambition and the government's ambition with Denmark's future climate label is clear: it must be a single brand that consumers can trust. It is a complicated and complex work, no doubt about it. The Consumer Council Think has done a study in which they asked people to rank eight ordinary foods correctly according to how much they strain the climate. There were only 2 out of the 1,100 interviewed who could hit the right order 2 out of 1,100. That's not a lot. It tells something about how complicated and how difficult it is, and it underlines how difficult a maneuver it will be to develop a new common climate label. That is why the government has gathered the smartest heads of the country within the sector, and the idea is that before Christmas this year they will have to come up with their brightest idea of what a Danish and the world's first climate label can look like. I'm sure a climate label will make a huge difference. Research from the University of Copenhagen shows that people end up with a more climate-friendly shopping cart when there is a climate label on the food, whether consumers are interested in knowing the climate impression of their purchases or not. So it's something that moves, it's something that works. Because we can see all the benefits of a climate label, it is also crucial that it is based on a solid data base, and that is one of the many things that the working group behind the climate label has to look at, i.e. that a data base is being created that is sufficiently strong and good. When the authorities put themselves behind a label, it is crucial that it is based on a solid data base so that the label can gain wide use and support. The calculations shall be scientifically based and internationally recognised. That's why we're also gonna make sure we put scientists and experts from the top of the list on this mission. We therefore agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution. These are very good intentions, which are also contained in the motion for a resolution. It is a work that we are, in fact, already doing. I therefore agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution and with the vision. We need more to eat climate-friendly, less meat and more plantable. This is a development that we must work to promote. Until the label is clear, we are working on many other measures to increase the consumption of climate-friendly food. We do this with the government's climate-friendly diet advice: eat less meat, more green and more legumes. The need for a climate label is there and it is great. Consumers would like to use the influence that the shopping basket gives them, and in addition, the climate label will also be able to inspire action in other countries, thus enabling the climate label to have a global impact on the climate that far exceeds Denmark's modest size. We are known from Denmark to be a pioneer country, and we can also be here with the climate label, where we are probably the very first in the world, and it will inspire other countries to do the same. It is also clear, however, that when a motion for a resolution is tabled on something that the government is already in the process of doing, we seem to us to be somewhat intuitive enough that it is not necessary to adopt. On the other hand, however, we are not at all opposed to the fact that we in the Danish Parliament can broadly agree on a report text supporting the work on a climate label and database. We feel that the government wants the co-operation of the people's government, and now that perhaps the leading opposition party in the Folketing makes a proposal for something that we are in agreement with, why not cooperate on it? So we would like to listen to what comes of proposals in committee, and if it is a text that we can see ourselves in, we are of course in favour of it. What we are aware of as a government is, when we have chosen to ask some of the most advanced researchers in this field and some of the most important experts in this field in relation to being here, it is also important that we do not pre-discount and say that it absolutely has to be exactly this way, but that we give the freedom for them to put together and develop it here in a way that they think is right. That is why our position on the Left's proposal for a report will be very much about the need to have a place for the label to be developed. However, in relation to the direction that we need a database, the direction that we need a climate label so that it will be easier for consumers to choose, we are in complete agreement, so let us try to see if we cannot get together on it. So I look forward to seeing the outcome of this ambitious and exciting development work that has already begun, and thank you for the floor. I look forward to any questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512122950	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it is from Mrs Marie Bjerre from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512122956	Thank you and thank the Minister for the positive reception of this proposal. We're really happy about that. Just to clarify a misunderstanding: this resolution is something that we on the Left put forward some time ago, in fact at a time when the government had not come up with anything at all about a climate label. That is also why we put it forward. I just think it is important to clarify that. Having said that, however, I think we can work out a joint report, because it sounds as if we are quite agreed that a climate label is needed. My question is: When does the minister think it is realistic that we can see the climate label on the food down in SuperBrugsen?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123039	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123040	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Bjerre for her comment. I think that none of us really need to have some kind of competition about who came first with exactly one proposal or another. What I can just say is that today we are dealing with a motion for a resolution from the Left, and it is therefore weeks since we made our statement in this area. However, it is fine and only good that we agree that we should move in a direction where we have more knowledge of what the climate influence is. And it is only good that we agree that we should have a label so that we can also vote with the shopping cart and move in a direction where we choose something that is more climate-friendly. It is only good that we agree on this. The idea is that we should be done with the draft mark before Christmas this year, and then we should be ready to put a mark on it soon after that. I could hope that it will be during 2023, but to stand and promise it here on Parliament's platform and then it will be exactly 2024 or something else I wouldn't want to do. All I can say is we're gonna work a little bit out of our pants. We think it is important that this should be done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123144	Thank you. A follow-up question?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123146	Yes, please. I think it is an excellent answer to be able to complete the work at the end of the year and then something can come in the spring of 2023. I would like to acknowledge that answer. Finally, can the Minister tell us how the political involvement is expected to be in that process?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123206	Now I said very precisely that I was hoping that it could be during 2023, but that it might be just a little later. So to conclude that it will already be in the spring of 2023, maybe a little bit to the fresh side. But let's hope so. It could be really, really good. But I guess it's just as optimistic. I think that we can regularly invite the rapporteurs for information and information on where we are and take some time in relation to the working group there. So I'll try to initiate that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123233	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123237	Thank you. I would also like to express my support for the positive reception of the motion for a resolution here and for the replies given by the Minister and for the statement he has made. That sounds good to me. I also think that we need to have a good one, we have to say, consensus-oriented cooperation dialogue on the development of this. Because I also believe that this is what my first question to the Minister is about: this will be a process in relation to the development of the climate label, when you look at it this way over a long period of time. That is why I fully agree that it must be fact-based and that there must be good solid data. I fully agree with the approach to this, including about volunteering. What I'm going to try to bring up is that we can try to feel a little bit about it. This means that when you as a consumer lean over the cooling disc and perhaps, as it is today, have to have some plant-based, it should also be the case that you choose the most climate-friendly of the plant-based. There may well be such a little misunderstanding when it comes to saying: as long as it is plant-based, everything is good. It's not safe, it is. There may well be a difference there too, as one can see as one gets all the data unveiled. So does the Minister agree that it should not just be, if you may say so, the meat against the plant-based, but that it should also apply in the product groups along the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123359	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123400	First of all, I am very pleased that Mr. Erling Bonnesen agrees that we should work together broadly in the Folketing. It always suits the Folketing best when we have this good cooperation. This is particularly true when it is such an important issue as the climate, so that we can show consumers that we are in fact prepared to cooperate on this. If we then put a mark on consumer food and they should be able to choose from it, then it is nice for them to know that it is not just a small narrow majority that has adopted something, but that it is something that we can work together on broadly in the Folketing. So we really agree on that. Having said that, I also said in my opening speech that we should be careful not to pre-discount too much in relation to what kind of brand is being developed. In relation to the plant-based approach to the meat, I would say that it is rather evident, almost regardless of what, that the climate effect of meat unfortunately, because we are many people who like meat is somewhat greater than it is by the plant-based. So if you choose the plant-based, you do something good for climate, almost no matter what. Then there may be some differences, and we must look at that. But it must be up to this working group to get it together in the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123507	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123508	I fully understand it, and we should not get to grips with it now either. But the fact that we talk to each other and talk us to the table instead of talking us off the table is a very good signal. And the best place to do that is precisely here in the Parliamentary Chamber. I think we're also gonna get some good foundations for that. The question I asked now also shows that it is not just such a flick of fingers, and then we are driving with it, because there are many considerations to be taken into account. Then we can also see that there is an increasing interest in the plant-based, and we must certainly exploit that potential, but do we not also agree that there should be room for everything, that there should also be room for the good Vienna schnitzel for those who want it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123550	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123551	Again, I would like to thank Mr. Erling Bonnesen. I also believe that it is best for us to work together, make some results and play each other good, and we can do that in this field too. After all, we have launched dietary advice which leads to more climate-friendly eating, and there is the dietary advice that you have to eat more plant-based, more legumes, and then you have to eat a little less meat. That's not the same as never having a Vienna schnitzel. That's where I'm gonna forgive Mr. Knox. Erling Bonnesen that it can be a real pleasure to have one of these once in a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123628	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister very much. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Anders Kronborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512123645	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you, not least to the authors of the motion for a resolution. Erling Bonnesen and Mrs Marie Bjerre from the Left. I am very pleased that we will now again have the opportunity in this Chamber to have a good debate on climate-friendly food. We have had it on several occasions over the last two and a half years, and that is also, I would like to stress, a very important issue. We know that what we buy in the supermarket, what we eat, what we use in cooking at home in the kitchen, has an impact on our climate, and we know that 6 out of 10 Danes want to eat more climate-friendly. Yet there are a lot of Danes who find it difficult, what is really a lot, and what is little in relation to climate-friendly diets. Against this background, I am convinced that, if consumers are given the opportunity to choose what is most harmful to the climate and what is most green, they will also make a green choice. But we also need to make all that choice more transparent and easier for consumers, so that in their everyday lives, if you may say so, even in the wolf hour, with perhaps some children hanging around their ankles, they can easily choose what is right. Erling Bonnesen, with SF's food rapporteur, Enhedslisten's food rapporteur, Radicale's food rapporteur, etc. I almost want to say that although the flag has always been raised in this Chamber, we should really raise the flag today, because it is fantastic to feel the consensus that is in favour of Denmark becoming the first country in the world to have a progressive climate label on food. Imagine that we are almost fighting to get credit for who came first, it is then somewhere impressive, and we should really smile from one ear to another, because it is really an emphasis that we want the green diet, that we want the green choices, and that we also want to give the Danes the opportunity to be on the right track when it comes to landing the green solutions. One of the things I think would also be really progressive and good about a climate label is that I think that in this whole climate struggle, if you like, climate change debate, if you like, there is also a need for local activism, that each family in their daily chores and their daily shopping can make a visible difference at home in the kitchen, and a climate label will be able to do so. I am very pleased that so many parties support the work that the Minister for Food has set in motion; a working group has already been set up, and I should like to say clearly and clearly here from the platform to the two authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr President. Erling Bonnesen and Mrs Bjerre, that work is under way, should not, of course, mean that the proposal cannot be given any attention. I am very much looking forward to taking part in the debate in committee, it could be that we should draw up a joint report in relation to some nuances, and I would also like to make it quite clear that it is certainly not on the part of the undersigned or on the part of the Socialist Group that we will see that the engine is going to pick up along the way in relation to the momentum. We need turbo on the green switch, we need turbo on this job, but of course we also have to be absolutely sharp that it should not be the steak that has to lose every time or that it should be the milk in relation to the cola. That is why it makes sense for this working group to be thoroughly discussed, for there to be some input to us politicians, where we can take this discussion, and then I am quite sure that together and together we will arrive at a progressive and sensible result. But I would like to sign the parties that are also helping to keep the debate on this green track all the time, which is incredibly important. Finally, I would just like to say that although we do not have a climate label yet, it is possible to change our habits, for example. look at the new dietary advice, where you know that if you follow them, you also help make a difference. But Denmark needs a climate label, it's nice that we are in the front, and it's nice that we actually seem to be the world's first country with a climate label. We can be proud of that!
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124201	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124206	Thank you for that and thank you for the positive reception of our motion for a resolution. I would also like to acknowledge that the rapporteur mentions that this should not be a fight against the steak. In fact, I think that is a very important signal to send out with such a climate label, and that is why I think we can find common ground in this matter too. I am a little surprised that the rapporteur says in his speech that he is pleased that we are again almost again discussing this issue. As I know, we have not discussed a climate label in this Parliament during this period, and in fact I am surprised that we are getting started so late; that the government is going to come so late in proposing that there should be a climate label; that it should first be proposed to set up a working party to create a climate label, after the rapporteur has any idea why the government has come so late in drawing up such a climate label?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124301	I am now looking down at the rapporteur of the Left, who is usually a spokesperson on food policy, Mr President. Erling Bonnesen. In any case, I would like to remind you of this, and otherwise I must deeply regret it if that is not the case, for example. I had a food policy debate in the Folketing, where all of us parties sat around the table, that we also discussed the possibility of a climate label. I have been in a number of debates with, for example, Mr President. Mr. Carl Valentin and Mr. Erling Bonnesen, where we've been discussing this climate label. I fully agree that this is not a debate in which Mrs Marie Bjerre normally takes part, that is, when we are talking about food policy, but I can see from the rapporteur of the Left, who is usually the rapporteur on these issues, that he can nod to recognise that this issue has actually been discussed. So I would like to knock out my arms and say that it is a good thing that even more people can join this very, very important debate. And then let us help each other, Mrs Bjerre, that together we are going to achieve a proper, progressive goal, because Denmark can seem proud of it in the world if we become the first country in the world to have a climate label. And you know what, Marie Bjerre? Actually, I don't think that's slow. I actually think that's really nice, namely that we can become world leaders.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124414	A follow-up question, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124417	Yes, please. It is quite true that we are discussing a climate label very much. It has been widely discussed and business is in progress. A lot of people are at it. What surprises me is that we have not discussed a specific proposal. After all, the government has not presented any proposals. We have not discussed in this Parliament during this period a concrete proposal for a climate label, and I think it is late to get started. That is why my question is simply: how can it be that a proposal is only made this far in a period of government? In fact, it was under the previous government that we proposed to create a climate label.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124451	I think that if I look at my whole youth, at the whole time I have been politically active, and I look at the times in history when the bourgeois people have been sitting on government power, it is at least a very large part of the time, a much larger part than the time when the red parties I have been sitting on power. So I have to say that if we are going to compete on who could have just proposed it, I would say to Mrs Bjerre that the Left has certainly had ample opportunity to propose it. I welcome the fact that we have a progressive Minister for Food, who is in charge of the fact that we have now put turbo on this, while, for the first time in history, we have actually got the country a broad green agricultural agreement extending from the Enhedslisten to the Middle to New Citizens. So I think we should also recognise that in this climate issue, we might also need to talk to each other in order to get the reeds to meet, so that we can actually make broad, long-term agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124549	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124551	Thank you. Thank you for your positive reception, and I am also looking forward to continued good cooperation in this field. And thank you also for defending the steak; it is good that we are also some who can take good care of it. I guess that's what my follow-up question is about... that once we get started with this, there's something that can be easy, but there's also something that can be really, really difficult. If, for example, you're gonna have to... standing by the sausage cart and having a hotter, it's made up of many things. There are both the meat and what holds it together, the bread, the roasted onions, the soft onions, the cucumber salad, the stuff that comes on at the end. And then you have to get the same thing over if it's a Frankfurter instead. There are also a lot of good things you can take there or whether it should be just a little mustard and ketchup. We know everything. We still have to put that on the palette. So the rapporteur does not agree with this and so it should be my question that we should take this, if I may say so, with thoughtful steps, which are well-substantiated and documented, just so that we get the data bank in place properly, so that we immediately send out some signals that it should be consensus-based and fact-based and not activist-based, as some would like to do here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124708	Thank you for the good, nuanced question. I think I will start by saying that, of course, regardless of whether or not I fully agree that we need to eat more green and more plant-based food on the plate, I will be mourning the day when there is no longer a sausage car on the corner where you can get, as the rapporteur says, a hotter, or you, for example. can't bring the sausage cart for his birthday. But exactly the example, as Mr. Erling Bonnesen provides, of course, also supports the dilemmas that are in relation to the whole climate label. It has to be done, for example. If we compare a Danish steak with e.g. a Danish steak, you can count it more positively. A South American steak that's been a long trip along the way? Should a German white wine have a lower climate load than the New Zealand wine, which has been a longer trip along the way? And that's how I think we can all find a number of questions where this can be incredibly complicated. That is why I believe that the right cure, if it is to be said, for achieving what we would like, is that there is a working group which, as it were, sits and drills out these dilemmas, and then we politicians have to take over after we have, like, got the palette of dilemmas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124819	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124820	Well, I totally agree. Just the first steps we are taking now show exactly the complexity of it. And in order to use the sausage wagon example, it must also be the case that when you stand there as a consumer and are about to buy, you can quickly see it. Well, it has to be simple, so the famous hotter won't get cold in the meantime. So there are also some tasks here for exactly the working group. So does the rapporteur not also agree that we should have a strong focus on ensuring, can we say, the simple thing in that, so that we can make quick choices as a consumer? 'Cause if it doesn't, it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124859	Yes, I agree. But, on the other hand, I also think that we should have a small degree of snuff in this, and we should certainly not be hearing this in no way from the rapporteur, because I believe in reality that all Danes know that it is much more climate-friendly to take a bowl of salad for their lunch than for example. a hotter, as the rapporteur says, by the sausage cart. So we must also be aware that the Danes are well aware of, on the line, what is climate-friendly and what is not climate-friendly. However, we can complement it to make it simpler, and that is where I think we have a common challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512124941	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the Socialist rapporteur and welcome the next rapporteur, Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125009	Thank you. I'm sorry, I was just a little slow about coming up here. Of course, I had thought it was the turn of the Left, but they are the authors of the motion. In the SF, we are basically convinced that there is a need for climate labelling of food, and that is because we have to eat radically different from what we are doing today. By this I mean basically that we need to choose the legumes and more vegetables much more, while, on the other hand, we need to choose the animal food far more. With what we are discussing today, the proposers want a database to be developed on the climate impact of food, which can form the basis for a voluntary labelling system. I guess I'm gonna have to have a little problem with the timing here. As has already been mentioned, we are already about to discuss a food climate label, which is why we cannot support the proposal as it stands here. But I think it would be good if we could discuss a report text, which the Minister also proposed. To be a little more specific, I would also like to make it very clear that we in the SF disagree entirely with the proposers that the objective of climate labelling should be to provide information on the climate image of each food. Firstly, it would be sending the experts on a very difficult mission, and even if it were something that could be done, it would probably cost a great deal of money to provide such detailed information. Secondly, there is also a high risk that the consumer will be confused and a lot of resources and central knowledge will be lost. Thirdly, I believe that a database such as the one proposed by the proposers could lead to something as inconvenient as greenwashing of climate-laden animal foods. Therefore, I would like to strike a blow at what it is that should be the central content of climate labelling for food. Such a scheme must show the consumer that it is important to choose more plant-based diet and climate-laden animal diet from the sensible choice to eat more plants and less meat. Conversely, a scheme should not be built up in such a way as to be able to differentiate its beef in a very climate-laden and a marginally less climate-laden category. I know that this is the model that the meat lobby is spending a lot of time promoting at the moment, but that is not the way we should go. In other words, the label must support a shift towards the diet recommended in the new dietary councils. In addition, I can see that the Left is funding this proposal with its financial priorities, and the SF is not entirely in agreement with the Left's draft budget, so it is also a bit problematic for us. With those words, I can say that we do not support the proposal, but would like to contribute to a dialogue on a report text if we can find each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125303	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Erling Bonnesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125307	Thank you. I am fully aware that we know from our daily work that SF will have thrown out all the animal foods as quickly as possible. If you could close the cooling disc to the meat products this afternoon, it was done if the SF had 90 mandates. Fortunately, the SF hasn't. Then there is something that really puzzles me when we try to do it as well as possible for the climate, and I actually think we all will. After all, there will be meat in the cooling discs for a long, long time to come, but there will probably be a development in it. If you say that today, for example. If you want Viennaerschnitzler, then it is strange that, as a consumer, if only SF were to decide, you cannot choose between the good Danish meat for Viennaerschnitzel rather than choosing something else, for example. foreign and more climate-laden meat. Why is it that the SF refuses in advance to enter that dialogue? Now I am delighted that there seems to be a broad consensus here anyway, but why does the SF stand out on the sidelines of that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125415	We do not stand on the sidelines, we enter the debate directly and contribute to it. You can see the products today, which country they come from, so there is really no problem there. There will be a problem if climate labelling is designed in such a way that consumers believe that they can make a big difference, for example, by, for example, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Erling Bonnesen highlights buying meat from Denmark instead of buying meat from another country. For the truth is that it is a very small part of the total load from the food that comes from transport. The most important question is what kind of food you buy. If, for example, you're gonna have to... buy some Danish pig, the pig has in many cases been fed soy from South America, and therefore the climate strain will still be high. So consumers must be able to see clearly what makes a difference, and what makes a difference is more to follow the new dietary advice and eat more plant-based than animal. Of course, climate labelling must also reflect this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125519	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125521	In relation to South American soya, I would say that this is also why other development measures are being introduced so that other protein types can be introduced into the feed. But it must be the case that when you as a consumer lean over the cooling disc and consider whether it should be 100 per cent that day. It is now rare to eat only meat, but let us say that at least some meat can be chosen, so you can choose the most climate-friendly meat product. That's the way it has to be. It looks more like an expression of activism, so you're going to use this climate label to simply get the meat out of the cooling disc. I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125557	After all, you don't take anything out of the cooling disc by writing what the climate load of the individual product is. It is also quite fine that I think it should be quite clear in a labelling scheme that, for example, one should be able to do so. it is described that it is better for the climate to eat chicken meat than it is to eat lamb. I think that is excellent, but there is no point in setting it up in the way Mr. Erling Bonnesen argues for here where it confuses consumers more than it really benefits because they think they can make a big difference to the climate by choosing some pork from Denmark instead of some pork from abroad. Because it doesn't make a big difference in the big picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125633	The next question is Mrs Marie Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125637	The Climate Council recommends in the report "Climate-friendly food and consumer behaviour" from 2021 that such a climate label be established, and they also write in their recommendations that such a climate label should show the climate impression within the product category, because it also encourages companies to produce more climate-friendly food from products that may be a little more in the heavy end. Does the rapporteur disagree with the recommendations of the Climate Council on this point?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125707	I think it may be good to look at it too, but I think it is important, when making a climate label, that it then provides an incentive to make the really sustainable choices. And I think there is a problem if you do this with the aim of securing the climate labelling that Mr. Erling Bonnesen advocates, which will actually greenwashe certain meat products that are really harmful to the climate, rather than showing consumers what is the important and sustainable choice to make, namely to eat more green. So we would very much like to contribute to creating a climate label on food, and we have advocated it before. I really think it is more important that the climate load of the food is reflected in the price than that it is on it, but nevertheless I think it is important that we get this climate label and we look very much forward to the work on it. But it is important that it is properly arranged, and it should not just be in a way like the greenwasher meat industry, as many agricultural lobbyists are calling for these days.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125807	Thank you. I would ask you to press in if you have a follow-up comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125813	Yes, I would like a follow-up comment. I quite agree that, of course, greenwashe should not be allowed to happen, but I just need to make it absolutely clear: does the rapporteur agree that such a climate label should be designed so that the individual products can be differentiated so that the consumer can see clearly that within the same product category there is something more climate-friendly than anything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125839	It depends on how Mrs Marie Bjerre defines the product category. If Mrs. Marie Bjerre, for example... I believe that we should create a product category called beef and then set up the climate marking so that what you can look at it is what kind of beef is the least destructive to the climate, so I would say that no, we do not think that is essential. We believe that the essential thing is that consumers can see which food categories to choose if they want to eat greener, and that must be the main objective of climate labelling.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125910	There is one more brief comment, and it is from Mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512125914	Thank you very much for some, I think, very, very sharp lines. As the rapporteur knows, I have a great deal of focus on the growing exports of piglets from Denmark, where millions of piglets are transported out of the country on trucks where they have very little space and very high temperatures, and down on European motorways. It is, in fact, sending jobs directly out of Denmark. It is clear that there is a big difference between a pig fattened in Denmark and slaughtered in Denmark and a pig that has been transported on European roads for 23 hours and down on a farm that is probably not as climate-friendly as the ones we know in Denmark; that there is therefore a big difference both between the product and the climate load. That is just a comment on the product category, because I actually think, when I hear the Left, that this discussion is also one we should take when we get there. So I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether he is ready to take that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130021	We would very much like to have that discussion. Then I would just like to emphasise that this type of very long pig transport is strongly opposed by the SF, and we have also worked against it here in the Folketing, and under the auspices of the European Union we are fighting a hard fight to stop these long animal transports.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130038	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. One of the things I am delighted that we have got through here we had to bend towards each other is that we have actually got a broad majority set in to an agricultural agreement that the transport of piglets for very many hours on European roads must be limited so that we do not continue to send the many jobs out of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130103	I agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130106	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Kathrine Oldag.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130125	Thank you, President. I will not spend my time up here discussing who made the first proposals. I really think that this is too important. I can only very much welcome the fact that there is a broad consensus in the House that it is now time for Denmark to have a climate label. So I also have to credit the government, although it is not always easy for a radical, and thank you very much for taking the initiative that the working group should now start to find out how we are doing this. I really do not envy the task of the working group, because as the debate also reflects, it is extremely complicated to find out how to make climatemarks. There is something about which CO2 there is also something that is about CO2 There might also intuitively be a quick conclusion that it is better if something is produced in Denmark than if it is transported from afar, but now it is really the case that for example. tomatoes grown in Danish greenhouses emit significantly more CO 2 So this isn't just just plug and play. Therefore, it will be incredibly exciting to keep up with the group's work. The reason we're doing this is because, if we're going to achieve our 70-percent target, we're going to have to take consumers into the task room with us into the engine room. We should each as individuals also look at our habits, our driving patterns, our transport, our houses and their insulation and heat sources, where our power comes from, which cars we drive in, but we should certainly also look at what kind of food we eat. After all, it is fantastic that we have the Climate Council's dietary council, which includes the climate in the recommendations, and that we are now on our way to getting a climate label. I would personally dream that the climate label would also include other product groups and consumption groups such as electronic equipment, clothing, etc. I know that we would then put the working group on a much larger task, and it may not be right now, because this is going to be super complicated for them. That is why, of course, we warmly support the general work and would like to help write a progressive report so that we can set a high level of ambition here. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130404	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur and the first is from Mrs Bjerre, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130407	First of all, thank you for not dwelling on who made this proposal first, and thank you to the rapporteur for his positive support. Because this is really important. I agree that such a climate label is not plug and play, as the rapporteur says, and therefore I would like to hear what a political approach the Radical Left has to such a climate label. Does the rapporteur agree that a climate label should also be able to differentiate in the long term in product category, i.e. that pork is not just pork, a cucumber is not just a cucumber, because there is something more climate-friendly than anything else, there is something more climate-friendly than some pork that is more climate-friendly than some other pork, as the Climate Council recommends? And does the rapporteur also agree that such a climate label should go on climate data and not all sorts of other considerations?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130458	My gut tells me that, before the working group has started, these are the ones we need to listen to in this context, I think it would be incredibly difficult to separate in product category, also because technology changes are taking place, for example. in relation to transport. So if you have pigs that have been transported from far away as opposed to Danish pigs, for example, it means something when road transport is changed when we start to have electric trucks or trucks that drive on hydrogen etc.? Because that will also mean something for foreign pigs' climate impressions in Danish cooling discs. But I would very, very much like to see a bid on it, because it could be pretty cool.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130601	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130601-2	I understand the rapporteur's comment, and the Climate Council also says that it should be in the long term that we should be able to differentiate before product category, and that is why I would really just like to hear whether the rapporteur is opposed to working in the long term towards being able to differentiate in product category, or at least how to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130622	We would very much like to take part in this, but I also share the in-built scepticism of the SF rapporteur that we should be careful not to greenwashe, and there is also some lobbying in this that we need to keep an eye on. But I certainly think that there could be a noble purpose to it too, so we would really like to be involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130641	The next brief remark is to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130644	Thank you. There is also good advice to say that you have to eat variedly, and if you only get a very narrow climate label and every time absolutely have to choose the most optimal climate, then you get into having to eat salad from morning to evening all year round, and that probably doesn't work out, and I don't think anyone will. So that is why it is also so that we can say that we can still live up to various good advices and can eat variedly, so that today we want to do it and today we want to do it, so there is no doubt that the Danes, as the Danes are most, want to take account of the climate as well. But then it is also necessary to arrive at the first mark on the way, and it is not possible to do so from day one with the first mark, but with version two or three, etc. So does the rapporteur not agree that we should be careful not to give this side of the battle, and that when we agree that we should have a climate label and I think that is a good thing we should also ensure that it is based on facts, but that it should not be used as an activist? But then it must be used to help consumers to provide rapid information.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130751	I've never quite understood what that "activist-based" means. Because we go to the platform here with an agenda and a political desire to change something, so somewhere all politics is basically a form of activism, that is to say to actively create a change. Well, that must be semantics. But regardless of what, this is a climate label. This is not a vegetarian agenda for the Radical Left. This was about me being a consumer, like the one who would like to take an active part in the debate, who came the activism again in the green transition, having to be able to choose a climate-friendly product in the cooling disc, and it is sometimes chicken, and it is sometimes pig, and just exactly the climate label here gives us the option to choose. Somewhere my liberal heart is glad in this, too, that someone is taking my hand and pointing the way. I think that's nice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130841	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130842	If you as a consumer stand down there and say that you want plant steak today, then it is good if you can look at different plant steaks and of course choose the most climate-friendly. That must be logical, just as it is, if you say that you want Vienna schnitzel today. Then, of course, you have to be able to choose the most climate-friendly meat. Isn't that natural?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130901	Yeah, I've never understood the trick in plant father's. Now I've been a vegetarian for 15 years, and I do it myself. But apart from that, yes, in the best of all worlds, but I also know what a difficult task this working group is facing. So if it is, we start by having a general climate label for the overall product category, we will also be happy about it. If we can only achieve that in the first place, I think we have also made a great deal of progress. But we can raise the level of ambition a little. I think that might be nice too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130931	Thank you to Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512130945	After all, there is a little competition about who came first with these ideas about a climate label, and by goingogling you can see that the previous government took an initiative and that Lars Christian Lilleholt gave up. So it was a government that didn't have the backbone, even though they had the majority, to implement a climate label back in 2018 because they had the backbone of a earthworm when the food industry said that you wouldn't. Nor did it help that the Left held the Agriculture Minister's post for 4 years with successive ministers: Esben Lunde Larsen, Eva Kjer Hansen and Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. They didn't manage to get through with this climate label. The Enhedslisten wants to take credit for the fact that we have also been quick. We have not had the taboos in the government, but we came up with a proposal against greenwashing in November last year, among other things. urged that there should be a public food climate database and that there should be a public food climate label. It is of course interesting to see that the Climate Council is also playing a part in the debate, that it is not just parties, and perhaps that is what has helped. I have also noted that CONCITO prepared a climate database for food and received a Nordic award for that work ■ great respect for it. There are, of course, actors out there who are working seriously on this, and I think it is gratifying that we have come there, that the government has full support from its parliamentary basis to continue working on a climate label and that a working group has been set up to work on it. And there are such players from the food sector, perhaps even some of the players who didn't really like it when Lars Christian Lilleholt had to drop the plans back in 2018. I believe that a climate label can help some in many ways, but there are also general dietary advice that you can choose to follow. I think it is very good that climate advice has come, which can help to ensure better public health, save billions every year and lead to a reduction in the climate impact of the food consum. But this is also complex. So, when people start talking about every single product that needs a climate label, will I say: Yes, then try to take Danish cucumbers? is it for every week that we have to change the climate label? Because you start at the beginning of the season, where it has a rather high climate load, on the same plant you harvest the whole season, and when you get to the summer, it will have a very low climate footprint. And there you can have some rules of living that say that you have to eat the produce of the season and that you have to eat local products and that you have to reduce the amount of animal food that you eat. In other words, we can also get quite a long way by means of information. But it's complex. I myself find it very difficult to choose the right climate when I stand there and have to choose between the organic red wine from Chile and the organic red wine from Spain. Has it been brought up from Spain in a stinking diesel truck? Has it from Chile been driven in an equally stinking truck many kilometres before it has arrived on a large ship with a low climate load on its long journey to Denmark? Well, I would like there to be some more knowledge, and it's not a knowledge I need to have every time I have to look at a climate label. If there was a database that was also available from home, you would be able to do a preliminary work so that you would not have to stand and look at the small stickers in the store. So there's also some public education in this. And in relation to these climate nutrition advice, it's not something you have to read down in your use. It's something you have to read from home and try to see if your overall food budget is not different than it is and try to find out if you couldn't get a better health yourself by changing your diet. So why are we dealing with this proposal today, since the government is that I have a little difficulty fully understanding. There's talk of writing a story. You can do that. Should we then write there that we commend the present government for its backbone, which is much stronger than the previous government? Is that the kind of thing you have to write in a story? We are quite open to this in the Enhedslisten, but it's a little funny to have to write something about things that are already in process.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512131439	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. It's from Mrs. Marie Bjerre, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512131443	It is quite true that the climate data issue is something that the government then proposed, but it is also true that it was too difficult for there to be too much resistance and that, unfortunately, we had to withdraw it, something that we are incredibly sorry about, because, as liberals, we believe that it is important for consumers to have the opportunity to exert their influence. That is why a climate label is important. That is also why, when we made this resolution, we targeted the climate data, so that we start by creating an alignment of climate data that can then form the basis for a climate label. It is quite true that it is difficult to do it, but we believe that we should start with climate data. And what has happened since we proposed it is that the business community itself has got started and has itself created climate databases. There's just a need for some alignment. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is how the Enhedslisten views these data: does the rapporteur agree that it should be purely climate data and that all possible other considerations should not be taken into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512131545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512131546	If other considerations are transport, I think it is essential to have an indication of it. It has to be admitted that if you find imported asparagus coming from a country outside the European continent, it is probably some that have flown in. There are a number of food products that are actually being flown in, and there is also some fruit, and it could actually be nice for consumers to have that knowledge. I think this is complex, because if you only have a climate label on food categories, there may well be some of the foods that have had a long transport, which you should be told about. But that is what makes it complex, because what about the goods you can buy at a time when it may then be that a supermarket 2 weeks later has some goods imported from another country? So I'm a little skeptical about it, if we're going to go all the way down to the detail of all the goods and have data on them. There is something about broad consumer information, and it can now be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512131653	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512131653-2	What I meant with other data was that there are some who are calling for other things to be dragged into such a climate label and that it should not be just climate considerations. It can be animal welfare or sustainability or something quite third or fourth. And what I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether he agrees that such a climate label will have to deal purely with something that is climate-related in order to get the climate impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512131718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512131719	Animal welfare has something to do with ethics. That is something for which labelling arrangements can be drawn up, and there is already one. It has something to do indirectly with climate, how many animals you have on the same area. But I can easily follow that we need a climate label that has a main focus on climate. Then you can have the eco-label next door, and you can also have some animal welfare labels. But there are also some concepts that provide the solution, for example. the organic brand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512131752	The next brief remark is to Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512131754	Thank you. Last week, I think, we also had a food case in this Parliament, and then the rapporteur also replied to my question as to whether it was the Enhedslisten's aim to destroy animal production in Denmark, and if I do not remember quite wrong, the rapporteur replied that it might not be a complete phasing-out, at least not immediately, but that it should be drastically reduced. Then my question will also be whether this is the strategy of Enhedslisten now in connection with the work on a climate label, as well as using the climate label to combat animal production, or whether it is more of a completely real, good consumer information. What exactly is Enhedslisten's strategy in this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512131838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512131840	There are so many positive effects of consuming less animal. There is, of course, climate change, and there is also when we have to achieve the objectives of the Water Framework Directive and reduce our nitrogen pollution of the seas, which mainly comes from agriculture. It is therefore easier to achieve this when you have fewer livestock. Then there is the health of changing your diet. There's a lot to pick up. Some people think it's 12 billion. kr. a year in saved health costs, if everyone just followed the Climate Board, and you can choose to go even further, and then it will be a larger amount. But we do not have such a hidden agenda that we are now taking the climate label to kill traditional farming. So we're not there. We're not that bad. However, we have a clear strategy for reducing animal production, and halving animal production as a first step could in fact be very important. And it is also important for us that the whole of agriculture should be converted into ecology, and I have said this many times from this platform. So there's nothing new about that. There are no hidden agendas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512131943	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512131944	No, there are no hidden agendas. For then I can understand that Enhedslisten will not be involved in going in and looking at getting graded • we can say "in the product category." Because then you will support Danish animal production, including pork production and beef production, because it is better than choosing the foreign one, and that is what Enhedslisten does not want. On the contrary, animal production, livestock production, is to be eliminated in Denmark, and that is why we do not want to go into details about the various other things. But thank you for that, that was a clear answer. At least I know where we have the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132020	I think it is relevant enough to know whether imported beef from South America together has a higher climate load than from Danish cattle. It is, of course, consumer information that we are very much in favour of. But to come to the conclusion that you can see, just because it is Danish pork, that it should be something that is good in terms of climate, we do not think you can. Well, we're not there at all. So it's actually more Left who wants to abuse this climate label to promote conventional Danish agriculture, and we don't support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132053	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132103	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Left for the motion for a resolution. This is a very good idea, as presented by the VLAK government in 2018, and as Conservatives fought for in the summer of 2020, which the EU has planned for 2024, and which the government has now got started with yes, thank you. In 2018, many players thought that this was too complicated and that such a sticker marking scheme was too difficult for me to make any comments on the label, both in terms of calculation and in terms of labelling, knowing that hardly anyone would fail to integrate the label into their current design and label. Of course, no one's licking stickers and putting it on a can of beer, right? Of course, that is not possible, and the very fact that not only giving up was also the Conservative message in 2020. We didn't think it was possible for you to drop it just because it was too difficult. We did not want to give up and we would like to have it included in the climate negotiations, just as the Climate Council had recommended, but the government did not want that. In the meantime, both the government and the food and business players have come up in gear. It was also just missing, and sometimes it is precisely the case that there are some ideas that need to be ripened and that at some point there is bitten into fucking, and there is a need for guidance. We can't all be experts in everything, and the exact climate impression isn't something we can just figure out, and the Danes want to be counseled. We also saw this in Netto in 2021, which made an experimental scheme, a scheme in which a few shops within selected categories marked the climate-friendly alternatives. It was noted, and it even affected purchases to some extent. There's nothing to say about that. Given that CONCITO provided the large climate database on food CO2 Knowledge is the way forward, and a voluntary labelling scheme will be strong consumer information, which we must also expect will help to shift consumption from the more climate-laden foods. The green choices do not come simply by themselves, and that is why we naturally support the resolution. But it is also overtaken inside, so we actually hope that we can be included in a report which sets a direction for the future labelling system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132317	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132333	Thank you. Guggenheim said at one point that too much information makes us dumber. If we have a pasta cookbook in which there are 100 different ways to cook pasta, we will not learn more from the fact that next year there will be a pasta cookbook with 200 different ways to cook pasta. We have very, very many brands: We have the Ø mark, we have the key hole mark, we have the whole grain mark, we have better animal welfare, we have natureSlowly, we have Fair Trade, we have the MSC mark, we have recommended by the animal protection mark, and we have a lot of other brands. Where is the limit between what is informative and what is confused? I was looking at something like this with CO2 and I didn't understand this at 2.1 kg per day. 100 g compared to what? What's this? In fact, I also believe that when there is such a figure, many consumers simply will not understand it. In the Danish People's Party we are actually very much in favour of buying locally and of supporting Danish companies. That is where we are and then we do not want to be involved in initiatives that mislead consumers even more, but we also believe that consumers can resort to the information they need if they want to act more climate-friendlyly. So we have great faith in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132457	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and it is only from Mrs Bjerre, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132504	I am surprised by the rapporteur's scepticism about such a climate label here. The fact is that consumers today find it very difficult to act in a climate-friendly manner. The Consumer Council Think of this as a study last year in which people answer that there is a lack of information and guidance, and the vast majority say that information and specific labelling on food with packaging will help them make a more climate-friendly choice. Does the rapporteur not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132535	Information and guidance are not something that comes from a label you can put on a package of minced beef. Information and guidance is something that can be searched online. So I do not disagree with the lack of information and guidance, but I would say that it should be sought elsewhere than on a sticker put on food.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132555	Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132556	But if you do not want to make such a climate label, how will consumers get information about the climate footprint of food?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132606-2	There is something called the Internet. It is a place where different information can be sought. Right now, it's a really sad round. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. Looking at renewable energy and how much one's emissions strain the climate, I do not think it is adequate or anything. But there I think other initiatives can be taken. It could be arranged, including the Ministry, simply to provide some information on this matter. Because it's a jungle, and a sticker isn't something that makes it simple. This is something that you can seek information about actively online.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132647	The next brief remark is to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132651	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. I think we should be very careful that the first time the state-controlled ecological label came into play, some people were certainly opposed to it, and there were probably also those who thought that the Swan mark was a bad idea, but it turned out that it was actually very good consumer information that helped to guide. Not all Danes go in and apply online; not all Danes actually have that opportunity, and we actually think it is really important that you don't think of this as a sticker, but that you think of it as an information, a consumer information that people, if they are more interested, can go in and search if they want to. But the information must, of course, be on the product in the purchase situation. I would like to know whether the rapporteur has sometimes thought that it might be that cooking recipe No. 102 which actually made the impact and that therefore it is precisely knowledge that is the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132746	In the Danish People's Party we are certainly not opposed to knowledge; it just concerns how we should get that knowledge. And there we think that where you can look for information, you have to do it, and when it's a few stickers with some number that most people don't understand, it can actually confuse more than it can benefit. And you can see that in some places. For example: When McDonald's signs up, how much CO2 does that number mean? And in relation to what? So that's where I think the information makes us stupider. There are other ways we can seek that information.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132823	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132824	Well, that's fair enough, of course. I do not understand the argument, because this very thing about getting some information is almost always a good thing. I understand that in one day you can get so much information that you can get confused, but I certainly do not imagine that a climate label will not be followed up by some kind of information, so that, like quietly, it will be incorporated. I also imagine that a climate label is something you have for a period of time, because it is now that we need to find out what is turning upside down in terms of what is really best to eat in relation to climate footprints. So will the Danish People's Party want to join in that dialogue when it comes to it? After all, it is a very broad part of Danish business that also points to precisely this climate labelling scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132907	No, we will not do that on the basis that it is a labelling system, but we would like to do so on the basis of how to obtain proper information. We think this is extremely relevant.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132919	Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512132923	Thank you very much to Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. I would not have thought that I should speak in any way today, but I must say that I have become very, very doubtful about what the Danish People's Party thinks. I assume that the rapporteur is familiar with Mr Beazley's report. Morten Messerschmidt, Chairman of the Danish People's Party. After all, he has been very active in the fight for just a climate label. I'm here with an article dated back to September 13, 2019, which says in the headline on DR's website: DF wants climate labels on all goods. And then Mr. Morten Messerschmidt to DR: • Someone has said so. However, in view of the fact that consumers will then be able to make a climate-conscious choice on an enlightened basis, there will be a great deal of value in it. Now the rapporteur says that it is stupid to make a climate label, so I just want to ask: who should you trust in the Danish People's Party? Morten Messerschmidt?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133024	Sir. Anders Kronborg knows about anyone that the change of mind is possible. We have quotes, which are one year old, from various socialist ministers who thought it was right, really stupid, if we went out and abolished the defence reserve, and today we think something different. So the rapporteur must understand that one can easily change one's position, and the position I have put forward here today is the position of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133048	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133050	I understand very well that we can develop over time, and I think many politicians have done so, but I also think it is an obligation to explain it. Now, for example, we heard. on the other day in the Chamber that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt wanted the Secretary of State to come up and explain it, and the Foreign Minister did. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, whom I assume is the obvious one to explain it: what exactly has made the Danish People's Party so significantly change its attitude on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133117	We believe what I have said here, namely that we want to share in informing the consumer. We want to help consumers make good choices on the basis of good information; we just do not think it should be on the basis of the climate label.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133136	Thank you to Mrs Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As far as I can see, all the rapporteurs who wanted to speak on this matter have spoken, apart from the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, who is the last person in the line. So welcome to Mrs Marie Bjerre from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133200	Thank you. I'm sorry I didn't stay ready. I thought that the alternative rapporteur would also come up. I should like to thank you for your consideration of this motion for a resolution and to thank you for having been so well received. There is no doubt that we think this climate label thing is extremely important. As a Liberal, I think it is important to give the Danes an opportunity to assert their influence that they can take ownership of the green transition. We also believe that it is far more effective if we are to achieve the climate struggle, that we can make the climate-friendly choice ourselves, the right choice. We also know that consumers and businesses can and will play a huge role in the green transition, but it is very difficult today. A switch to a more climate-friendly diet has huge potential. In fact, the Climate Council has calculated that if we all had a more climate-friendly diet, there would actually be a reduction potential of between 2.6 and 3.9 million. t CO2 So there is a huge potential. We also know that the Danes would very much like to act more climate-friendlyly. The Consumer Council Think last year made an analysis where it emerged that a lot of Danes find it difficult to make the climate-friendly choice. One lacks information, one lacks guidance, one does not know what is the most climate-friendly, and that is why we think it is right to have such a labelling system. So did the consumers who took part in this study. They said they wanted information and labelling directly on food packaging. This will help consumers make a more climate-friendly choice. We also know that the business community is ready, and a great many people in the business community have already had experience with such a climate label. For example, last year the Salling Group introduced a climate label in some selected Netto Stores, and the vast majority of them were in fact 86 per cent. And it also made a difference to the climate. People acted more climate-friendlyly. For example, sales of avocados fall by 5.5 per cent because it is not a very climate-friendly vegetable. Therefore, we think that climate-conscious consumers should also have the opportunity to make a green and informed choice in an easy and simple way. We believe that consumers should be able to use their influence and that those companies that want to compete on a green parameter should be able to produce even more climate-friendly, since they must also be able to do so in a credible way. Therefore, with this resolution, we want to create such a climate database with independent, credible and comparable climate data. It is true, then, that the government is already in the process, that the government has set up a working group, I think the minister mentioned that we were kicking in an open door. We made this proposal because we thought it was amazing that we had not got started, and that is why we are very pleased that the government has finally started and that such a working group has been set up. For us, it is important that it is climate data that it is going to work with, and not everything else, and there we may be a little concerned about whether the working group set up by the government will only work with climate data, or whether all sorts of other considerations will also be taken into account. For example, we wonder why CONCITO, which is already very well in the process of producing climate data, is not part of this working group. Our goal with such a climate label is also that it is differentiated within the product category, because it should not just be a narrow fight between steaks and salad. We must also provide an incentive to produce more climate-friendly meat. For there is therefore a difference between whether the steak comes from Argentine beef cattle or whether it comes from Danish dairy cattle, and it will also be an opportunity to boost the production of even more climate-friendly food. Finally, I would just like to say that it is important for consumers and businesses to be able to play a role in the green transition, and we think this should be recognised and supported here by the Folketing, and that is why I very much hope that we can obtain a majority in order to arrive at a joint report together. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133647	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133653	Now the rapporteur said that meat from South American cattle had a higher climate effect than Danish cattle, and I am not sure about that. If you now took some frozen meat from cattle, which had gone on some permanent pasture somewhere in South America, where there had been no deforestation there in the last 100 years, and then it sails meat to Denmark, versus some beef from, for example, Denmark. Is the rapporteur quite sure that the Danish minced meat is better than the imported meat? That is the kind of thing that consumers really need to know. However, we do not need to have a climate label that says, like, that it is good to eat meat.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133750	This really just illustrates very well that we need some reliable data, because I don't have any data to refer to. That is what I can read that several experts have said, but I have no official figures to refer to, because we do not have this official climate database. There are different ones who have created their own climate database, but we need some data that is reliable so that we can stand and say that this is how it is. The problem is, right now, we can't.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133820	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133822	But we can say with certainty that beef has an extremely high climate load, and we have to have a certain amount of protein in the body during the day, approx. 1 g per day kilos of body weight when you are fully grown and do not do extreme sports, and you can get that in many ways. What would be achieved if there were to be differentiated beef marks? If you choose your proteins from something plant-based, we just have an extremely lower climate load. Isn't it enough that we just have the category to choose between beef and veal versus some plant proteins?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133903	No, I think it would be very unfortunate if we did not have the courage to create a climate label that in the long term distinguishes within product category, because we should remember that it also gives food-makers and meat-makers the opportunity to produce even more climate-friendly, so that we can choose the meat that is the most climate-friendly choice. I don't believe we're just gonna stop eating meat. We need to encourage the choice of what is most climate-friendly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133933	The next brief remark is to Mr. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512133936	Thank you so much. In politics there are two kinds of birds: there are those on the roof and there are those in your hand. I think that the people in your hand are the ones who are best, because then you know that things are going to happen. And now Mrs Marie Bjerre has, in connection with this one, I think, by the way, good debate and I have no intention of destroying the interest in the writing of history. So I would like to ask Mrs Bjerre the simple, clear and clear question: was it a mistake that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, when a climate label was discussed in 2018, said he had no money for it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512134015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512134015-2	When we were in government last time, we proposed to create a climate label because we think it is right, and the Left has not changed policy because we believe that a climate label is right. It is true that it could not happen because it was too difficult because we were faced with too much resistance, among other things. After all, we were faced with opposition from consumer organisations, which felt that there were already too many brands. I understand that they have changed their minds today and that we are somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512134043	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512134045	At least it was birds that flew completely away from the hand. Mrs Marie Bjerre does not answer my question. I would like to ask Mrs Bjerre for her storywriting: was it a mistake that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen in 2018 did not want to allocate money to a climate label? That's a yes or no answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512134102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512134103	Well, the question doesn't make much sense, because the reason we didn't move forward with a climate label was that there was too much resistance to creating a climate label. Because it was said that it was too difficult; that it could not be done; that there were too many labelling schemes already. After all, it was also the consumer organisations that said so. That's the reason. So the premise for Mr. Anders Kronborg's question is not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512134126	Thank you to Mrs Bjerre, Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512134141	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512134206	First of all, many thanks to the proposers for highlighting this very serious issue. According to the motion for a resolution, the government is required to take action against the fracture of the sternum of laying hens. I myself was rather shocked when I heard in the autumn of last year that almost 85%. of laying hens here in Denmark have fractured the sternum. Those are serious cases. It's something you don't want to take place. I therefore also, as Denmark's Minister for Food, went into this matter when I heard about it, and in November I attended a big meeting with Danish egg producers and organisations of interest on breastbone fractures. And in December, I raised this issue with the Commission and my fellow agricultural ministers in the European Union. We had a good discussion. It was Denmark that set the agenda, and the other countries were also shocked by this situation and have agreed to make an effort to look at the entire breeding programme. So it was Denmark that set the agenda and it was positive. In addition, I am also in a close dialogue with the industry at home, and I believe that we should all focus on achieving this area. It is an unhappy situation in every way, and it is also my clear belief that the industry takes the problem very seriously. In relation to the specific initiatives contained in the motion for a resolution, I have the following comments to make: the government supports the intentions behind the proposal, but we therefore reject the proposal in its entirety. This is because there is not enough knowledge to introduce legislation on the timing of the start-up of lays. There is insufficient knowledge as to whether the desired effect on the occurrence of sternum fractures will be achieved by delaying laying. And it cannot be denied that such an action could have negative consequences on other animal welfare parameters in the hens, that it has a backside that one might risk it containing an element of fistfulness. The discharge of lays may, for example: involve a risk of the hens exhibiting stress behaviour, including feathering and cannibalism. These are scary things, so we need to know more before we might want to get this started. I think it would be premature to introduce such legislation before we have sufficient knowledge in this area. I agree, however, that breastbone fractures to the extent that we see here with 85%. This is a problem of animal welfare that needs to be resolved. The government has a number of initiatives which I will continue to work on and which are also addressed in the resolution. Firstly, the government will maintain at EU level the call for a pan-European approach to breeding companies. That is what my fellow ministers in the European Union promised me they would support, and it is the case that there are two large breeding companies, one in Germany and one in France, and pressure has been put on them to solve this problem. This breastbone fracture problem is a common problem in the European Union and therefore it also requires common solutions in the European Union. The breeding is governed by a few foreign breeding companies, and I therefore received broad support from the other EU Member States at the December 2021 Council for a common EU approach, which I believe is positive. I think that is also a major step in the right direction for animal welfare, because it is not just here in Denmark that we need to solve this monstrous problem. We also need to resolve this in all the other European countries so that we do not get into a situation where consumers simply buy eggs in other countries, because then the problem continues. Secondly, I have set up a coordination group on interventions against breast-bone fractures in laying hens. It is intended that the group should coordinate the various interventions aimed at reducing the incidence of chest fractures. The question of monitoring breast-bone fractures may be included in the coordination group's discussions. It is expected that it will be discussed within the group how and how frequent such studies should be carried out in order to follow developments. It is also proposed that testing of new breeding lines be carried out in this coordination group. In addition, the coordination group will identify any additional research needs to reduce breastbone fractures. I believe that this would be a good forum for further work to find solutions to the challenge of breastbone fractures. Thirdly, the Ministry of Food is working on examining whether the animal welfare mark can be extended to eggs so that laying hens can have better animal welfare. I recognise that there is still a great challenge here, which has certainly not been resolved yet, unfortunately. However, I believe that these initiatives will be a step in the right direction, in other words those we have set in motion, and, having said that, we need to have even more knowledge in this area and we need to have even more ideas to solve this creepy problem. The fact that we are getting even more solutions on the table presupposes that stakeholders, authorities, experts and politicians meet across and think together and that there is cooperation on solutions both at national and EU level. Once again, I would like to thank the initiators of this motion for a resolution for highlighting this problem. It is outrageous, it is unacceptable and we should not put up with it, but the government must reject the proposal as it stands here for the reasons I have already mentioned, in other words primarily that we do not yet know whether it will solve the problem at all, but also that it may have some negative effects. That is why we need to drill out what is the way forward in this field and then follow the initiatives we have already taken. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512134827	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512134832	Thank you. After all, there are extreme problems in egg production right now. When 85%. Of the chickens running around with a broken sternum, it is a systematic and all-encompassing problem which results in suffering for millions of animals in this country. So I think it is a very serious matter that we are debating here. It is not so long ago that a new animal welfare law was adopted. That is why I would just like to hear from the Minister whether he believes that the fact that 85% is true. Of the chickens in Denmark running around with broken breastbones, one can say is within the animal welfare law we have in Denmark that it may well be allowed within the animal welfare law that we have jointly agreed on here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512134923	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512134925	I completely agree with you, sir. Carl Valentin that it seems monstrous and that it seems unacceptable. I thought that was what I said in my opening remarks. However, there is still a lack of knowledge in this area. For example: it's still going to stay at the drill final out, which pain is associated with this sternum fracture. You have to pay attention to this, and I'm not saying this at all to neglect the problem... that it's not a real chest fracture, but a fracture where there are some nice lines inside the sternum when you take an X-ray of it. So how this is related to the hen's animal welfare, we need to know more about. But having said that, we want it stopped, but we just have to stop it in the right way, and very much suggests that we cannot stop it by doing another management of egg production, i.e. by making another lighting or trying to promote that they lay eggs at a later stage. On the contrary, it may cause some other problems. Therefore, it is necessary to change the breeding programme so that the hens grow bigger and the eggs get a little smaller, so you get into a situation where hopefully you can avoid this breastbone fracture.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135036	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135037	The minister says a lot, but he doesn't really answer my question. He points out that he has said in his speech that it is monstrous and that it must be stopped and that you will not put up with it and that is really good; that is exactly what the SF also thinks it is, but he does not really answer whether he thinks it is within the animal welfare law. And it is actually a relatively simple and relevant question whether the Minister believes that the legislation we have adopted in here is being complied with with with such massive animal welfare problems as the University of Copenhagen has pointed out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135109	Frankly, I think I answered quite clearly here. I replied that we did not have enough knowledge now to answer that question. I thought that was quite clear. That was one thing. The second point is that it is probably not the solution to propose something that risks adding further problems, even less animal welfare, and that is what is at risk here. When there is a motion for a resolution from among others. Mr. Carl Valentin to me, I have to present it to those who are working on it, and they say: sir. Minister, be careful about that; we risk the problem getting bigger. And that's what I'm trying to say in this context. I can see that my speaking time has stopped, but I get a little upset about getting shot in my shoes, that I'm not taking this seriously. We go a lot and the solution is not to add new problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135158	The next brief remark is to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135201	We must then have more documentation on this in committee if it is the case that priority is given to another feeding, a slower growth before the hen starts laying eggs • whether it should have a negative effect on other fields. I think that sounds very weird. Well, what is it you should go into? Is it that all domestic animals must have pups as early as possible, so that they can be pressured as much as possible? We have 3.5 million laying hens in Denmark, and it is disastrous that we are in a place where virtually all hens are likely to suffer from broken sternums. And the Minister then tries to explain that perhaps it is not so bad anyway, and yet the Minister would like to resolve it. So I don't think it's really connected. Well, I think there is a lack of evidence of what the Minister said in his speech. Does it not seem logical that if a hen grows slower at first, it will probably be more mature to lay eggs?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135303	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135304	What I used as the basis for my statement that we are at risk of making the problem bigger is that if we postpone the time of laying, experts are at risk of saying that it causes stress in some of these hens, and there is a risk of further feathering. That's what I said in my speech. With regard to feed composition and other things: this may well prove to have a positive effect, but we also need to know more about this, and I am glad to have a discussion on this, including in committee work. And we may do so by summoning some of those who work with it to clarify it. We only have the interest of having as good an animal welfare as possible, including in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135344	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135345	Well, we have this animal welfare law that says that animals are living and sensory beings, including the production animals we have in agriculture. Does the Minister have any idea when we have solved this problem, so that laying hens in Denmark are in conditions to comply with the animal welfare law?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135408	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135408-2	First of all, it is not the case that we can say with certainty yet that we are on the verge of the animal welfare law; that is, there is still a lack of knowledge. That's one thing. The other thing is that what we're told by those who are working on this is that the way to solve this seems to be through the breeding program. And a breeding program takes by its very nature a number of years. It may be a few years, I think, but it's not like you can solve this in half a year or a whole year. Then we have to move on to a completely different type of laying hens, and this will probably have the consequence that the business model for egg producers is not at all linked, and then consumers will start buying eggs from Germany or Poland or somewhere else where there is also a breastbone fracture. And then we're just as far as we are except that we've lost some revenue in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135500	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135504	Thank you. This problem with 85%. I am glad that the Minister is aware of this, but I would like the Minister to be a little more specific in relation to all the initiatives that have been taken. When does the Minister think it should stop? Well, what are the objectives of that effort? How many chickens will the minister accept break the sternum when they lay eggs?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135537-2	I think I have been pretty clear here. What is my aim, what is the aim of the government, is that this should stop as soon as possible. However, we have been in dialogue with those who work with it, with the experts, and they say that the path is to change the breeding programme. Denmark, the first country in the European Union to raise this issue, was put on the agenda at an EU Council meeting that this should be started. Now there's communication to the breeding companies that are there and there's two: one in Germany, one in France, that they have to start changing the breeding line so that we can get rid of this problem. That's the way we have to go. Meanwhile, we have a group of experts to look into what further action can be taken. It would be a pity, in desperation, to set in motion a whole lot of things which we do not know about at all and which are at risk, and it was also part of my speech to have the opposite effect: to increase the problem of animal welfare. So let us act with due care and common sense here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135643	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135644	But has the Minister forgotten to ask all the experts with whom the Minister is surrounded and discussing this with, how long will it take to stop it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135654	I think I just answered Mr. Carl Valentin, or maybe it was Mr. Knox. Søren Egge Rasmussen that it can take a number of years when it is the breeding programme that you have to change. We wanted it to go faster. We wanted us to be able to solve this problem right now: press a button, and then it was solved. If it could be done, we would do it. But we are told by those who work with it that it is the breeding programme that needs to be changed, and so it takes a number of years. If it is that we are then embarking on a lot of other initiatives where we risk that there is a reverse of what is making animal welfare worse yet, then we have only aggravated the problem rather than solving the problem. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135739	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief remarks to the Minister, and we are now embarking on the rapporteur's line. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512135755	Thank you for the floor, President. And thank the proposers for focusing on this very important issue of fracture of the sternum of laying hens. It is a proposal which requires the government to monitor the number of fractures on the sternum and to bring forward legislation which sets a lower limit on the age of hens when laying is started. Finally, the government is required to maintain the pressure for joint EU action towards breeding companies in order to further develop alternatives. First of all, I would like to stress that in the Social Democratic Party we find these figures very serious, very shocking. 85% of all Danish laying hens have fractures to the sternum. It is an unhappy and untenable situation. There can be no doubt about that. However, as it is now, there is not enough knowledge to set a lower limit on when it is okay to start laying hens. What I am told is that we simply do not know enough about the effect of postponing laying and therefore cannot say with certainty whether it will reduce the incidence of breast-bone fractures without having an effect in terms of stress and feather-pilling and in terms of cannibalisation among chickens. That is why we do not want to introduce such legislation until we have more clear knowledge in this area. Nevertheless, I would like to stress to the SF that we see a number of positive initiatives addressed by the resolution. We also want the government to maintain common European pressure on breeding. That is what is needed, because this situation is untenable and it is resolved, as I see it, in the best way possible. We also know that breeding is governed by large foreign companies. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister, as I understand it, as the first one raised it here in the European Union, and that there has also been support in the European Union for a common approach to this area, as well as I am pleased that the Minister has set up a coordination group for interventions against breast-bone fractures in laying hens, with the clear aim of reducing incidence. There's something I think is the hardest part of this question. In other contexts this is often the case, I have at least been able to see that there is a difference between organic animals or whether, for example, they are organic animals. is expensive in other production, but the challenge here is that in general it applies to the whole palette that these breastbone fractures occur. And as I can see, there is in fact an overweight ratio between organic production and breastbone fractures, which is actually higher than conventional production. This is quite, quite serious, and that is why we must also have looked at the industry as a whole. So it has to be said that we in the Social Democratic Party fully recognise this proposal from the SF. We need more knowledge, we also need more initiatives and we need more solutions. And that is why I am glad that this issue is raised again. This cooperation must take place across the board, both at home among the parties, but also within the European Union. And now that the SF has tabled this motion for a resolution, we also know that there is work going on in the parliamentary committee, and I think that and I would like to acknowledge that to the proposers we should also take the opportunity to work in committee to perhaps involve experts, involve people who know something about this difficult issue. I also think that we should use the time thoroughly, constructively, to discuss this with each other. It may also be that we need to involve foreign experts. I am, in fact, open to everything in the committee's work, and the proposers must know that. That is why I would just like to appeal to the fact that we now have this difficult complex issue in committee. I am also completely confident that the proposers also recognise that it is complicated: let us use the time constructively, and let us use it thoroughly to delve into this issue properly. I was also very pleased that I was able to hear in the Minister's speech that the Ministry is making itself available for the work of the committee in order to learn more about this issue, and I think we should accept that in committee. With those words, I can say that we cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140311	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is first to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140317	Sir. Anders Kronborg says that we lack knowledge in this area, and I therefore agree with the rapporteur that we could use some more knowledge. The stress, feather-pilling, cannibalism and all sorts of things that should come from the later launch of the laying time are very new to me, and I do not think that this is something that has been mentioned in the meetings we have had about it. I also wonder a little bit about the fact that, for example, the fact that one should not manipulate animals with certain types of lighting and such things should even have a negative effect on them. But, of course, I can't deny it. I haven't heard of it before. I would just like to hear the rapporteur: how will the Social Democrats ensure that we quickly gain knowledge in this area so that we can act on it? It is therefore a rather acute crisis that we are facing in the laying industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140408	I would lie here from Parliament's platform if I said I was an expert in Danish chickens. I'm not, so I have to stick to the notes and the knowledge I get from, among other things. The ministry with royal crown and everything on it, and here, at least in the notes I have from the Ministry, we can see that there could be a negative consequence in relation to the well-being of the hen. At any rate, this is something I take seriously, and I can also hear that this is something the rapporteur from the SF takes very seriously. So one of the ways in which we can get fast knowledge and I would like to help work towards this in the committee is that, in the context of our committee work, we can draw up some very precise questions about the documentation of this. I am, in fact, open to everything in relation to committee work, because we have an animal welfare law in Denmark which states that animals are sensory, living beings, and I agree with that, and I also hear that the Minister agrees with that. You can almost imagine how you would feel if you walked around every day with a broken sternum. It must be quite painful and quite unpleasant. That is why I have the deepest sympathy for the hens who experience this suffering, and that is why I think that we have a joint obligation to get this drilled properly out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140523	Sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140524	If it is in the rapporteur's papers with royal crowns on from the Ministry, then we would very much have liked to have forwarded the evidence of the allegations that have been made, because of course we think it is relevant to include them in the consideration. I would like to know whether the Social Democratic Party, if we change it in the committee procedure to make an experiment in relation to the later launch of the lay time and then retain the other parts of the proposal, could back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140559	I will not be reluctant to discuss this in committee. When I draw a little bit on it, it is because I think that, in general, when it comes to animals, one should always be very careful about doing experiments. However, I think it is almost impossible to be more open than to say that the various proposals and discussions are so open. But to give a clear guarantee here from the platform of what a possible experiment should be, I think, may be a little far-reaching. However, I would like to make it quite clear that we are willing and fully open to look at things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140640	The next brief remark is to Mr Beazley. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140643	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I can say from the Left that we fully support the line taken by the government in this matter. So as far as this is concerned, the Socialist rapporteur can take it easy. We need a safe way through this, we fully agree that there are some challenges, and then, of course, we need to have them examined to the bottom so that we can act correctly and accurately. Then I sit here and think a little bit about the fact that it must be some funny internal rapporteur meetings that you have in red camp. With reports like this, it doesn't seem like it's a cousin-cousin party when you have internal rapporteur meetings on this. But I can at least say that we in the Left will not be helping to chase poultry production out of the country. That would be the ultimate consequence of what we hear from the government's friends here, and of course we will not be involved in that. But how's it going in red camp anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140734	It seems to me that things are going quite well. Well, I like SF, Enhedslisten, Alternative, etc. and also welcomes the fact that you sometimes have what you might call whips in football language. It's nice to be kept on fire. Where I'm just a little bit reluctant to Mr. Knox. Carl Valentin in this case is that when we don't know for sure if things are working, we have to look into this more thoroughly. I am glad that I also hear the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Erling Bonnesen, a hundred per cent support, because I really think that this is such a serious problem that we simply have to solve it together. Then, as I said before, it is also a problem in which we cannot say that we are now recommending more ecology, or that we are now recommending more of the conventional, because, unfortunately, it is all over the palette that this problem has arisen. I myself was, I would say, very, very surprised that it was those in the ecological field who, in this way, had the record in breastbone fractures.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140837	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140838	Thank you. I can also say, for our part here in the Left, that we need to have this properly examined. Does the rapporteur also agree that we should be careful not to blow this off course? Yes, there are some challenges with this sternum fracture, and I noticed in the Minister's fine review that it is not puke and breakage in the way you see it when you use those words. It's more about some fractures and some lines and some lines when you look at the pictures. So does the rapporteur not agree that we should be careful not to blow this out of proportion?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512140917	I think it is very important that we have a balance in this. What we know with certainty and let us just hold onto it is that a smaller part, namely 10%, of the fractures on the sternum, is due to collisions with e.g. furniture, and then we have the last one just over 90 percent. fracture of the sternum. They are evidently due to the fact that I appear to say a pressure from the inside, but we simply do not have the cause to be accurately mapped out. So I really think that the clue we really need to focus on at first is to get a map of what makes so many chickens have these fractures on the sternum. If we then hold up the percentage against the fact that we have 3.5 million chickens in Denmark, then it is really very, very problematic when we talk about animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141009	The next brief remark is to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141013	Thank you. It is a disaster for Danish animal welfare that the Social Democrats are having a party with the blue Mr. Erling Bonnesen from the Left, when it is the case that we are talking about how to improve animal welfare for chickens. In other words, it should not be the case that Parliament's most blue rapporteur on agriculture embraces the Socialists when they have just told us what to do about 85%. Danish chickens break their sternum. Hopefully the rapporteur is not laying eggs now, but I am sure that if the rapporteur did, the rapporteur would hurry something more to get this sorted out. Has the rapporteur read from all the experts with whom the rapporteur is speaking, or on the fine paper with the royal crown, anything about when the Socialists will see to it that this ends?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141107	I think it might have been a rather aggressive approach to an embrace that I actually make of SF's proposal that I kind of reach out to work constructively and progressively in committee work. About Mr. Erling Bonnesen is blue, or whatever, sir. Erling Bonnesen is, I think, irrelevant to this issue if Mr. Erling Bonnesen would like to contribute constructively to solving this problem. I know, sir. Torsten Gejl does everything he can to be outside broad agreements, outside good agreements that save the climate, outside good agreements that actually make us move Danish agriculture in a right direction. I can't use birds on the roof for anything, because it doesn't change anything. What I can use is birds in my hand. And that is where I would like to help change this by a broad, stable majority in this Parliament. And then, sir... Torsten Gejl calls me one and the other... I don't really care about that. What matters to me is that we change things. And I would like to shake hands with the fact that we do so together with the SF and the parties that want to join.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141216	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141217	I think those birds are flying a little around the rapporteur's ears. In other words, if the rapporteur wants to present some birds in his hand, then answer the question: when will it stop chickens breaking the sternum? What are the targets? It is a goalless one: a number of years. Aren't those birds on the roof? Where are those birds in your hand? Bring them in. Tell me when the Social Democrats' goal is to stop, to 85%. of Danish laying hens break or fracture the sternum when laying eggs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141248	Sir. Torsten Gejl must excuse me very much for that, sir. Torsten Gejl asks me to answer, does not even appear in the SF's motion for a resolution. This isn't something where I can stand here on the platform and say that it's tomorrow that we're gonna get this solved, even though I really wanted it to be tomorrow, it was solved. But here we go. Torsten Gejl on the platform in a minute. The alternative would not go on the floor of the last motion for a resolution. I hope they will do so this time. Torsten Gejl, how he'll solve this; whether he'll kill 3.5 million chickens tomorrow. Because then we've solved the problem. The challenge is that this is a problem throughout Europe and that there is not a clear solution yet. But I would very much hope that there would be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141328	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur from the Left. To the great surprise of the rapporteur, the Left is the second largest party. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141348	Thank you. I was just chewing on those very serious comments. The Minister and the previous rapporteurs have already examined the proposal here in great detail, so I shall not repeat it, but simply say that we are on the same line and that we in the Left also reject the proposal with reference to the initiatives already taken in this area in order to make efforts to improve the situation. It is of course important, as has already been discussed and explained by the Minister and previous rapporteurs, that we keep a close eye on the matter and have the initiatives that can be put in place to deal with this correctly and precisely, and we should not, of course, chase our poultry production out of the country. So we reject this proposal and support the initiatives already taken by the Minister and the government. And I would also like to welcome the new Civil and Liberal Alliance and say that they also reject the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141450	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left; I think I saw him just now. No. Then the next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141516	In the Enhedslisten we think we have a very serious problem. It is quite crazy that virtually all hens in the EU come from what should be said about the same breeding lines and that the problem you have is apparently the same in all EU countries. In Denmark it is with 3.5 million chickens that we have a serious problem with fractures on the sternum. I think it is good that the SF has tabled this motion for a resolution and makes some suggestions on how we can move forward. I am a little surprised that the Minister has so much rejected the proposal and said that a change in the rearing of chickens before they start laying eggs would be something which would then create other problems. So that if you have some natural conditions for the chickens and they are going to lay eggs at a later stage, it would result in featherpiling etc. The Minister will certainly reply to that in the committee procedure that we are going to have. We have to look at whether we have not got there, where some production hens are being pushed too much, and we have to find out whether, with the breeding lines we have now, we can find solutions where we come to the conclusion that there is no breakage of the sternum. Then we are also faced with something else that the authors of the motion for a resolution outline here, namely that we have to breed some other chickens if we want to eat eggs with a good taste in our mouths. It is of course of no use that, regardless of which eggs are chosen in the supermarket, it is based on poor animal welfare. It is very possible that we are faced with the fact that eggs are not just such a discount product in large hills, but a delicacy produced by some hens that have a proper animal welfare and that lay fewer eggs. It's very possible that this is the entrance to that being what's happening. You can't just say that's something you solve in a few years. I find it very difficult to see that the animal welfare law passed in the Folketing can just let this pass. I am well aware that we do not have any announcements that, like implementing the animal welfare law, so there is no breach of existing regulations. Because the task of adapting the notices to the legislation we have has not begun to be solved. This is one of the priorities that the Minister should give priority to. Sometimes there are small problems that are quickly solved in the Folketing, and then there are major problems that are being raised which are not being solved and that is not the priority that should be. So in the Enhedslisten we are fully involved in exploring what can be done further to ensure that there is also good animal welfare for laying hens in Denmark. I think it has been a rather too harsh rejection of the proposal, as I have seen so far in this Chamber, and that is why we need to have more documentation through the committee procedure. So Enhedslisten supports the proposal. It could have been tightened even more and said that there should be some date for the animal welfare law to apply to laying hens in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141900	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur by Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141905	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen and Enhedslisten for backup. I can also say that we also think that it could have been tightened up more. But we have actually tried to make a proposal that is so pragmatic that we thought that there might be support for it from the government. And yet it is then poured down the board, and it annoys me a little bit to say the least. I would like to hear what Enhedslisten and Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen thinks that we have had a new animal welfare law for so long now, without having the announcements updated. Is it not quite grotesque that we have a government which has not provided for so long on the legislation that we have actually adopted together?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512141949	Yes, it is quite true that it is strange that the work has not come to the level at which the government, with its parliamentary basis, could at least discuss how to achieve it fully in relation to the legislation. It is a task that could be taken step by step. Well, you can take it for each animal group, so it is not because you have to have the solution for all types of livestock at the same time; you could sort of start in a corner. So I also wonder why that task has not moved forward towards a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512142031	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Per Larsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512142041	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you to the SF and Mr. Carl Valentin to raise this issue, because it is certainly a very important issue which we must take very seriously. Because it's awful that it's going on in this way, and that it's gradually getting there, that by far the majority of the hens get these fractures. But it is not a new problem. When you look back, you can see that SEGES writes that the primeval mother of the chickens, the red junglebird, also had these brides. It was not at all to the same extent, but something that was in the vicinity of 10%. So the sternum is simply fragile on the part of nature, one can see that it has always happened. What can you do about it? If we could legislate out of it, I would, of course, like us to just vote through it, but unfortunately we cannot. We must do everything we can to bring down the scale of the problem and resolve it so that we can continue to eat eggs in good conscience, but unfortunately it will take a long time. We can read that when it comes to changing those breeding lines, and before one gets bred to something else, it talks about both 10, 15 or 20 years before it gets through and we may reach the goal. But it could be that there were other options. It is the case that the mineralisation, that is, the construction of the skeleton in the hens, can be affected in many ways. There are various minerals, i.e. magnesium, calcium and phosphorus, and the proportion of vitamin D also has an impact on how bone building develops. So I would actually suggest that some research should be started to find out if anything could be done so that we could get some evidence. Rather than just saying that we are increasing the age of chickens or doing something else, we could set aside some means so that we can try it out and find out how the hens react. Then I think that the Minister should be very commended for having taken it up in the European Union, because the one egg that you might typically eat for breakfast is not enough to look at at at all. A lot of eggs are eaten. Eggs are used in lots of things. I do not even know how many eggs are produced in the European Union, but that is extremely, very many, and of course the problem needs to be resolved so that we have the same competitive situation throughout the European Union. It is of no use that we make special rules in Denmark which then prevent us from having profitable production, and that we end up in the fact that we may need to import eggs from other countries where they may use some other methods. We support a hundred percent that this problem needs to be solved. It must also be resolved as quickly as possible, but it would be useful for us to have some evidence of what we can do in relation to breeding and in relation to experiments with different methods of breeding all these hens and mineralising for their bone growth. Those were supposed to be my words. Unfortunately, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512142419	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512142424	Then I would like to be nice and, at least, just thank you for the one thing the rapporteur said, which I thought was good, namely that he actually made a concrete proposal for looking at the composition of feed. I think it might be possible to consider whether it was not the profession itself that should help finance the clean-up after the problems created by oneself, and not necessarily the taxpayers. But no matter what, I'm glad Conservatives are at least trying to make some suggestions on how to solve this. Something that I thought was a little strange, which I would just like to ask the rapporteur, was the fact that he referred to the fact that it was actually very natural that chickens have a fracture of the sternum, and then he referred to an original species, of which 10%. fractured the sternum. Does the rapporteur not think that there is quite a difference between whether one in ten hen has a broken sternum and about 85%? Did it? Is it not the expression of a reasonably ill breeding culture when the problem has become so great?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512142528	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512142529	The reason I brought up the example of the red jungle hens is that it just illustrates that there is, in fact, a problem on the part of nature. One would think that they were completely free from these kinds of problems, but unfortunately they are not, and that just says something about this problem not being solved with a snap with your fingers, because it will probably be a long journey before you reach the goal. It can then be said that the poultry keepers themselves are responsible for this, but they certainly did not know for themselves. It is, after all, a relatively new problem that has come to the surface and that has begun to be investigated, and therefore it is not possible to go in and load the individual hen farmer and say that they should have done something else. The fact that, over the years, some breeding lines have been put in place, where, of course, as high an egg production as possible and also as small chickens as possible, certainly gives the consequence that it is strengthened and that one gets up to that unacceptablely high percentage of breakage.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512142641	Thank you, sir. Per Larsen and thus thanks to the Conservative People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512142702	Thank you. And thank you very much to the SF for making this proposal, which aims to take better care of our production animals in this case the chickens. It's creepy reading that 85%. of all hens, whether conventionally or ecologically bred, have fractures of the sternum. The fact that you can breed on a hen, earlier than it is ripe enough to lay eggs, is cruelty to animals and it is reprehensible. That is why we in the Danish People's Party are very, very pleased with the initiatives taken by the government in this area, and we are also very, very pleased with the Minister's efforts down in the European Union. So we are leaning on that and we hope that, on the basis of this proposal, we will also be able to put further pressure on the government in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512142749	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur comes from the alternative, and that is Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512142814	Thank you, President. The alternative, of course, supports this proposal for initiatives to stop it, that 85%. Danish hens have fractured the sternum when laying eggs. Some of it's going on. You can just take that out and pass the rest. So I think that is a bad excuse for not supporting the proposal. You know, we usually can solve something like that. I myself have spent a very long time making the Danes aware of this problem and campaigning to make sure these chickens don't have this pain. But I still don't think we've got anything. We have asked a great many questions to the Minister. I do not think we have received any response from the government on the key issues. These are questions we have asked in this Chamber. So another question could be whether the government would help clarify the animal welfare law so that the bone fractures of the hens are undoubtedly covered by it. I would also like to know how far the industry has actually come after the industry meeting held on 1 November 2021, i.e. what concrete measures have been taken. Could it be imagined that the Minister was responsible for a labelling system once the problem has been resolved? Can we speed it up? Another interesting question, if I have the Minister's attention, apparently I do not, but then another question for the cameras is: could poultry teams be in breach of EU law, that is, the directive on the protection of animals kept for agricultural purposes? There are still questions that blow in the wind here, but at least in the alternative we will appreciate the speed of the move. You cannot have an objective that something should happen within a number of years, because a number of years can be very long. So I think there should be more progression. The moment you set a target, you have something to work for and to correct. So the fact that it's just a few years, I think it's too loose. We are starting to get to where one could begin to recommend the Danes to eat a little less eggs, not to chase the whole egg production out of Denmark, but to start to put a little pressure on just as quietly. 'Cause egg producers are gonna feel that reaction and talk to the minister and maybe get this work up a little bit. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143055	Thank you. There are a few comments. Sir. Anders Kronborg, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143059	This is a very, very serious issue. 85% The Danish laying hens have broken the sternum, and I hear only the rapporteur of the alternative asking questions. He himself is by no means precise, concrete or enterprising. So now I ask the rapporteur of the alternative very precisely: when and how will the rapporteur stop breastbone fractures on chickens?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143136	I believe that this is the greatest exhibition of the government's incompetence I have ever seen. You want a party that has one mandate in the Folketing to solve the problem that the government and the Ministry of Food, with all its officials and all the experts you stand and say you have, cannot solve. Does the rapporteur not see that this is not good enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143201	Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143204	The rapporteur can see that this requires a very, very thorough work and the work is extremely difficult. What I hear responsible parties say in the Folketing is that they recognise this very, very difficult issue and that we must proceed constructively. I would like to invite the Alternative's rapporteur into the constructive work. Will the rapporteur do so, or will he merely make speeches of a populist nature?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143232	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143233	We are always ready to go along with this kind of work, and we have been working on it for a long time. What I want to do in concrete terms is to start making campaigns that tell the Danes even more clearly about this, because then we can get the action that the government does not deliver, so hopefully the Danes will start eating a little less eggs. It is not about throwing egg producers out of the country and stopping the total egg production. It's about starting to label egg producers if the government can't move that the Danes won't put up with it, and so we can put pressure on the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143307	Then it's mr. Erling Bonnesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143309	Thank you. There is one thing I am pleased about, namely that the rapporteur called me a very, very blue rapporteur. I'm glad. However, the rest of what the rapporteur says is extremely worrying. What is at the bottom of what the rapporteur actually says is that we must stop poultry production, at least the laying part, as soon as possible, and that will then be all poultry production for good reasons. The rapporteur will probably be able to hear for himself what that sounds like. Why is it that the alternative in such a case as this one gets completely sidelined, yes, actually on the outside of the sideline, instead of saying: fine, we have to have this looked at properly first before we can deal with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143359	I think that the rapporteur should have welcomed the first part, in which I called the rapporteur Mr Beyer de Ryke. Blue Bonnesen. The second part is quite wrong. I said quite clearly that this is not about chasing the entire egg production out of Denmark in a chop. It is about the egg producers feeling that the Danes do not accept that lays should result in breastbone fractures, and just as quietly begins to eat a little less eggs. I don't think it's putting that pressure on sir. Erling Bonnesen and the minister who's making something happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143434	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143435	I have just said that I am pleased to be characterised as a very, very blue rapporteur, but it does not help anything, because now to take the serious part of the matter, to chase poultry production out of Denmark, because it has now been demonstrated that it is a general problem at least at European level and perhaps even at global level. That is why it is precisely a question of trying to keep your tongue straight in your mouth and snout in your tracks and having it properly examined before resorting to such drastic things as the alternative is now proposing here, where you would advise the Danes not to eat eggs. It is said that this should not happen in a chop, but it sounds as if the rapporteur himself has some doubts about it and as if one is a little afraid to take the consequence of his own real position. We can hear what it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143526-2	That is where the huge political difference between the Left and the Alternative emerges when it comes to animal rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143541	Then there is no more in the rapporteur's line, and then it is Mr. Carl Valentin as rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512143548	Thank you. 85% of the Danish hens suffer from fractures of the sternum. This means that right now we probably have about 3 million chickens in the Danish egg production, which runs around with fractures on their sternums. Does it hurt to run around with a fracture to the sternum? It all of a sudden turned into a bit of a debate up here. Jens Peter Christensen, professor at the Department of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, said about this: "If you've ever tried to break something, then you know that this kind of thing hurts. The chickens also do not have the opportunity to get the sternum in plaster and keep it calm, so their bride probably heals very badly and hurts for a very long time. In my view, the only appropriate term one can give what is happening in the Danish egg production right now is that it is massive cruelty to animals, and we cannot be aware of that. And if you have any doubts about how serious this is, then I think you should look at how the animal protection has acted in this matter. The proud old organization, which senses the foods that they think they can recommend, has made a historic decision for their organization. They recommended that the animal protection mark has been taken by all eggs in Denmark. The protection of animals no longer recommends eggs, nor do the organic eggs, because this problem is in the industry as a whole because the hens have been reared for suffering. They are bred to suffer by their mere existence. Then there are some who want it to sound as if we want to knock a lot of farmers on the head, but that is not at all my intention, because in reality the farmers' ability to solve this problem themselves is actually quite limited if they want to continue to produce eggs, because the only chickens they can buy for their production are, in the name of efficiency, bred to be freaks without the chance of a decent life. That is why this problem must be resolved from a political point of view, and in this respect I am very disappointed that the government has done almost nothing about it. And then the minister sits and complains, and he does, because he has taken it up in the European Union and discussed it with the industry, and that is quite fine, but this is an emergency situation and there is therefore more that can be done. One could, for example: look at whether to change the limit on when chickens can be started with their lays. It could be started later. Then the government comes up with some new perspectives on what I have not heard before about potential stress and feather-pilling, but then let us look into it now if there are any problems with it, because this is an acute situation. By the way, it's not just something like that, sir. Carl Valentin just came up with this proposal. The part dealing with the later launch of lays is therefore something that comes from the researchers at the University of Copenhagen who have worked hard on this and who have produced a report that has aroused international awareness. In addition, we could also establish a systematic monitoring of this problem and also initiate the development of Danish plumbing lines, precisely because the problem is that the hens you get into today are all suffering, and because a lot of them break the sternum. So we need to put in some other species instead. Then I also think that more pressure can be put on the EU level. It cannot be right that this can continue at European level. That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution, and I am glad that it has been welcomed very well by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, and I should also like to welcome the Radicals, who were unable to be here and back it up, and say that they are happy with the proposal. I can, of course, hear from many rapporteurs that they say that they think the problem is very serious. I appreciate that, but I just don't see that there's that feeling that it's an acute problem, and I don't think it's acting as if this is urgent. I do not think that you act as if there are 3 million chickens in Denmark running around with fractures on the sternum, but it is there. I believe that the reason why there is no greater alertness in many parties in here is that it is a general trend in our animal production that some breeding work has been carried out which makes the animals suffer by their mere existence. Now we are focusing on it in the hens, and I am extremely pleased about that, and we are, of course, helping to raise the debate ourselves, but this is a general problem that we need to focus more on. It is cows which have been systematically bred for the primary purpose of producing as much milk as possible, which means that they have large udders and that there are problems with udder inflammation. These are pigs that have been bred to have so many pups that the infant pig mortality rate is high. These are the so-called turbochicks, which have been bred to produce meat so extremely fast that they have difficulty walking and many other sufferings. This problem of breeding work, which we see in laying hens, is a general problem which we see in many places in our animal production, and we have a huge responsibility to address this breeding work so that it is not only done for profit but, in fact, more consideration is given to the welfare of animals. This can be done by adopting the SF's proposal, perhaps with some minor adjustments in committee work following some of the comments that have been made about the later launch of the time of laying. I would very much like to be a part of that. But I really think that we have done something here that should be edible for a broad majority of the Folketing. I am sorry to say that is not the case, but we are continuing the fight with the parties that have supported it today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144216	Thank you. Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144218	Thank you. It is well known that SF aims to stop animal production. That was largely confirmed last week. So the question is, is it SF's goal with this specific proposal to focus on stopping poultry production in Denmark? It almost sounds like it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144239	No, that is not the goal, and we have not confirmed that last week either. What I said last week when Mr. Erling Bonnesen asked me, was that the SF has historically agreed at our national meeting that we now have a long-term goal to phase out conventional animal production. I think this is a major and important objective, but it is not the same as closing down all animal production. What that means is that we want to focus on ecology or the like, so that we get much less animal production and much more plant production, but where the animals that are now part of it have better lives in return, and that is what we want. This proposal is quite a moderate proposal; it is therefore not something that closes down poultry production in Denmark. It is something that ensures that Denmark actually takes some active initiatives to solve this huge problem we have, with animals that have fractures on the sternum, and the Left should also be able to help. So this is not a radical political proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144339	Sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144340	If we take the rapporteur's answer at face value here, this proposal does not aim to close down poultry production. Then virtually all the rapporteurs who have been on the platform have said that there is a problem that needs to be looked at. The Minister and the government have set a line for this. We'll back that up. So aren't we actually over there, that's fine? We need to take a look at this first. We need to analyze it first before we can relate to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144404	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144405	No, because words aren't enough. It is not enough for the Socialist People's Party that it is simply said that you support it. I am pleased that the Minister has taken this up at EU level. I think it is very exemplary that this has been done. It's important, but it's just not enough. We must also initiate some Danish initiatives. We need to see if we can get some other species into production so that we don't have these mutants that are bred to break their sternums. It is absolutely crucial that this work is given more impetus, and we can do more, even without going to shut down production, which the rapporteur would like to scare people into thinking that SF means.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144446	Thank you. Sir. Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144449	I'm actually gonna be a little too bad, sir. Carl Valentin, over this debate, which depicts the good people on the one hand and the bad ones on the other. In fact, I think this debate has been constructive, good. I myself said on the platform of the Folketing, when I was up and presenting our views, that we will be very constructive in the work of the committee. In this connection, I would like to ask Carl Valentin something. Now he's talking a lot about his own proposal, but let's assume that the whole parliament was behind Mr. Carl Valentin's motion for a resolution and we voted through it: would the problem be resolved tomorrow?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144531	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144532	No, it wouldn't. It wouldn't be solved tomorrow. But I did not say that it would be resolved tomorrow. On the other hand, we'd be ahead of solving this problem. We have also tried to make proposals that are reasonably feasible and that should be possible for a majority in the Folketing to support. Furthermore, I do not agree that I present it as if there are good and bad people in here. I don't think anybody in here wants animals to suffer. But there are some parties in this Parliament who are willing to make the changes that are needed and who are not afraid to take any significant initiatives to solve this very acute problem. Then there are some other problems where it seems that consideration for the agricultural lobby is a little bigger. I think the Social Democrats stand very well between the two groups, where something has actually been done at EU level. I would like to acknowledge that, but one is also a little afraid to take drastic action. And I'm sorry you're not willing to go any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144636	Anders Kronborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144637	I think it is perfectly legal to say that one is a little bit sceptical about taking initiatives which I can read on a piece of paper equipped with royal crown will actually go beyond the welfare of animals. I think we should take this very seriously. That is also why I stressed that I am in favour of a very constructive debate on the work of the committee, and I very much welcome the fact that the rapporteur makes it so clear here that, with the SF's proposals, we will not solve it here tomorrow either. This underlines just how difficult and complex this problem is. That is why I do not think it is right for this to be presented as being faster than others or slower than others. We have to solve this together, sir. Carl Valentin. We agree that we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144725	I would also just like to say that I acknowledge the point made by the rapporteur on the later launch of the time of laying. I do not know the facts behind it; I have never heard before that cannibalism and increased stress should occur as a consequence of it. But I would like to delve into it, and I am also willing to engage in constructive cooperation in committee work. I think it would be very good if we could come to an agreement on some things. But I would also like to say that I do not think a proposal has ever been made in the Folketing which solved some specific problem tomorrow. On the other hand, it is possible to do something which is rapidly moving in the right direction, and that is what we are trying to do here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144802	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144827	The debate is open. Here you go to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512144836	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution we are now debating, Sikandar Siddique, Uffe Elbæk and Susanne Zimmer from the Free Greens want to introduce an equal pay certification for jobs with more than 25 employees. In concrete terms, it is proposed that jobs with more than 25 employees should be required to obtain certification. Certification is achieved by the employer proving that equal pay is paid for equal work and work of equal value. The motion for a resolution will also require the government to set up a working group to assist in the implementation of the scheme. I would like to start by saying that the system has not been evaluated in Iceland and we therefore do not know whether it has made a difference to the pay gap. At the same time, however, I agree with the proposers that unequal pay must be combated. This is a central agenda for me and for the entire government, and it is no secret that there is a pay gap between women and men across the labour market. We know it's there. It's about there. 14% We know what the majority of the difference is due to and we have initiatives on the way. I will come back to that. Indeed, the VIVE report of 2020 on the unexplained part of the difference between the hourly wage of women and men showed that the gender-separated labour market plays a far greater role than hitherto assumed. The report also said that the unexplained part has now been reduced to approx. 2 percentage points. I am fully aware that the fact that a pay gap can be explained does not make the difference more reasonable or fair, as the report also points out. It remains to be seen that the difference in pay is mainly linked to the fact that the labour market is very gender-based, both in terms of sectors and sectors, and also in terms of how management positions are occupied. And there are many reasons for gender segregation, which are also rooted in traditional ideas of typical male and female subjects and also gender stereotype expectations. Most people who are concerned with equal opportunities in the labour market know all about this. Unfortunately, there are no easy or quick solutions; that is rather the long, tough move, and we are in the process of doing so. The government has a strong focus on creating a less gender-separated labour market. As from 2 August this year, a new model of leave will come into effect. With the new rules, leave is now divided equally between parents. Each parent has the same number of weeks earmarked, with the possibility of transferring the other weeks to each other. And countless studies have been carried out showing that it is important for men and women's pay, how families distribute leave, and that it also has a negative impact on women's pay and wage development when they have children. A study from 2018 indicates that in the short term, women's labour income is falling by an average of 30%. as a result, inter alia, of: maternity leave; however, even after 10 years, their income from work is still on average 20 per cent. under what else it would have been. At the same time, we know that fathers only take approx. 10% of the total leave. So here we have taken an important step towards ensuring equal pay by earmarking a larger part of the leave for the fathers. However, I must stress that it will not be possible to make an impact assessment of the impact of leave rules on men's and women's pay. We are again talking about the long tough move and, above all, a contribution to a cultural change and a new way of looking at the roles of men and women as carers. The pay structure committee is another measure. Its work will be a basis for future collective bargaining on wages in the public sector. With its report later this year, the Wage Structure Committee will provide a common professional basis for discussing wage structures and wage development, which will form part of the parties' future wage negotiations. Information on women and men's pay and increased equal pay at all levels are also relevant measures to promote equal pay. As you probably know, there is a new EU directive on promoting wage transparency on the road. The Council adopted its general position on 6 December 2021. Denmark voted in favour of this subject, with the reservation that we will only take a final position when we see a final directive. Most recently, the European Parliament adopted its report on the proposal in April and announced its readiness for trialogue negotiations. The government believes that the new directive can help ensure equal pay between women and men. With the pay transparency directive, it is the Government's hope that there will be, among other things. This will create greater transparency in wage formation. This can cause companies to look inwards, and I hope that will be a positive effect on the pay gap between men and women. So to return to the specific motion for a resolution, it is important that work on equal pay goes on several legs, and much is sead already. But there must be coherence between the rules; we must avoid too many changes and double regulation in the rules to which companies must relate. With a directive on wage transparency on the road, in which we do not yet know the final content, I will be reluctant to introduce measures such as those proposed here. That was also my message to the parliamentary parties when we met at the beginning of the year on precisely equal pay. At the same time, I am also sceptical as to whether the results of an equal pay certification may be commensurate with the significant burdens it will impose on businesses. As I have already mentioned, we are also not aware of an evaluation of how much difference the system has actually made in Iceland. It is the government's opinion that no new legislation should be introduced on equal pay certification requirements for jobs with more than 25 employees. So, in this context, the government is recommending that the motion for a resolution be rejected. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512145353	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sikandar Siddique, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512145357	Thank you to the Minister for a thorough statement. There were a lot of things I really wanted to ask, but I would just like to address the EU directive. Can the Minister confirm that the EU directive currently in place, which hopefully will be implemented, is far less ambitious than the proposal here? In other words, if and when the EU directive is implemented, the proposal we are making will just be more ambitious. In other words, we go further than the EU directive and are not less ambitious. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512145447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512145448	I do not necessarily know whether I can confirm that, but I can at least say, as I said in the speech, that the European Parliament has adopted its report on the proposal on 5 April, and that report also proposes the adoption of a kind of certificate, a label which can be obtained by companies which do not have a pay gap. After all, the proposed scheme is different from the Icelandic one and therefore also different from what is proposed in the motion for a resolution, because it is proposed that the certificate be obtained only on the basis of wage statistics, unlike the Icelandic one, where other factors are included. As I have said, we do not yet know what the impact has really been on the Icelandic economy, and we do not therefore know whether the potential benefits of a wage certification scheme, such as the Icelandic or other schemes, can be matched by the burdens imposed on industry in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512145539	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512145540	But in doing so, the proposal here is far more ambitious than that of the European Union, which is far more ambitious, and we need it in Denmark. Our neighbouring countries, neighbouring countries with which we usually compare ourselves, are far, far ahead of us, and it is now almost 46 years since we adopted the equal pay law in Denmark, yet that law is being violated every day because we do not have equal pay. So when we make this proposal, it is because we believe that the time has come for us to regulate. Yes, it will cost companies something, but all the other things that the Minister is proposing here will also cost them. And then I just... I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512145625	Thank you! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512145629	Basically: In the government, we have a hope that the new directive that might come can help ensure equal pay between women and men, and we also support the EU's principle of equal pay and also its effective enforcement. But in the end it is in the working model that we have in Denmark, in other words also up to the parties to negotiate wages and working conditions. Then we can do more or less from Christiansborg to support some structures that point in one direction or another. One of those structures is acting, for example. on a more equitable distribution of the bar, so that it does not subtract from women's pay shares.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512145707	Thank you. There are no more comments, so we go to the rapporteur's line. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512145727	With the motion for a resolution here, the Free Greens propose to introduce an equal pay certification for jobs with more than 25 employees. Certification can be achieved by the employer demonstrating that equal pay is paid for equal work and work of equal value. The proposers refer to a scheme implemented by Iceland to put an end to inequality between men and women, a scheme which has not yet been evaluated. We agree with the proposers that unequal pay is an issue which we must address in Denmark and which must be combated. I also think it is important that we look at the challenges more carefully, because otherwise I think we might miss the dial. Equal pay is not just about equal pay for equal work. It does, but the main reason for the wage differences in Denmark is mostly that gender has a major influence on the distribution of tasks. Much more women than men are employed in the public sector and far more men than women are represented on boards and boards. In addition, unequal pay is also about the distribution of parental leave. Among couples who became parents in 2019, women averaged 280 days of leave, while fathers averaged 34 days of maternity leave. Studies indicate that women's pay and wage development are adversely affected by having children, not only in the context of leave itself, but also in the longer term. That is why we are also very pleased with the initiatives that the government has already launched to eliminate the pay gap between women and men. We have adopted a new leave model which gives fathers the right to a greater share of leave; we have adopted a bill which obliges public and private companies and institutions to set targets and targets and policies to promote women in management and boards; and we have set up a pay structure commission to look at wage developments in the public sector. In addition, together with the measures mentioned, the European Union will soon come up with a directive on wage transparency, which we are also looking forward to discussing. In other words, in social democracy, we are concerned about reducing unequal pay in our society. Gender should and should not have an impact on individual opportunities. In the light of the measures that the government has already launched and the additions that will come in the future and which we will be discussing, we therefore see no reason to put further action into the sea, from which we have not yet evaluated the effect. Social democracy cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512145943	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512145946	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. We are, of course, sorry that the Social Democrats will not support the proposal. Can the rapporteur confirm with regard to the EU directive that it requires these companies to report, but that it does not require equal pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150014	I think the Minister replied very well when he was asked to confirm the same. For me, if you're going to make a difference, it's a question of how to act on it. After all, it is not just a question of putting a sticker on a company, but it is, of course, that you act on it. In fact, I think that the government has acted quite well, and then we look forward to discussing what comes from the European Union, and then we have to assess how far it is going. But no matter what, when you certify something, it's more important to act, so you don't have to certify much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150041	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150042	That is true, and in the perfect world it would be the case that they said that now we are looking at this, we are seeing a challenge, and then we are doing something about it. But we can only see that it is 46 years since we have made the equal pay law and that there is no equal pay. After all, I myself have been in negotiations with the Minister about target numbers, and the problem with these schemes is that we are not obliging companies to do anything, and the EU directive also provides for reporting on whether or not you have equal pay. And then you find out you don't have it, and then we're just where we've always been. So I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that, if we see that the EU directive does not have the effect that it is not ambitious enough, then the Icelandic model will help to impose it on companies in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150133	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150134	No, I would still like to see the evaluation of the Icelandic model, and I hope the rapporteur will. It depends, of course, on whether it has the effect that it is intended for in the proposal. Having said that, I still think it is important how to get there, and there I think that this government is some of those who have done the most in terms of equality, both in terms of maternity leave and now also in terms of target numbers for women on boards and management channels.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150155	Thank you. There are no further comments. We move on to Mrs Maja Torp, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150207	Thank you. The proposal before us here is to introduce equal pay certification. Although it is a very sympathetic thought, there is also wormwood in the cup. In the Left, we recognise that there are challenges when it comes to gender inequality. The challenge of the gender pay gap is largely due to the gender breakdown in the Danish labour market. It is the clear position of the Left that when it comes to pay, it must be established through the agreements and agreements between the social partners. The Equal Pay Act already ensures equal pay for women and men in terms of wage components and pay conditions for equal work or for work of equal value. The Left believes that this proposal will impose additional bureaucracy on companies, and this could lead to additional costs for businesses and additional administrative burdens. This is far from benefiting the Danish business community. We also note that the proposal does not specify any financial financing or estimated economic consequences. This means that we do not know what the cost of the proposal will be. And that is another reason why we do not see ourselves in supporting the proposal. However, as I said, this does not mean that the proposal does not have a sympathetic character and it deserves to be recognised. In the Left, however, we would rather have a debate on what barriers can be removed to break up the gender-separated labour market. It should also be emphasized, as has been mentioned in previous speeches, that we are awaiting the report of this Committee on Labour Structures, which is, of course, among other things. is related to wage structure and wage developments in the public sector. It is already coming here at the end of this year. By waiting for the report, we also gain much more knowledge and avoid making any hasty decisions. We should make sure that we have the necessary knowledge, which forms the basis for such crucial decisions to be taken on an enlightened basis. So, on the whole, the Left appreciates the contribution of the proposal to the debate, but we cannot support the proposal. I should like to welcome Conservatives and say that they cannot support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150445	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150448	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We are, of course, sorry that the Left will not support the proposal. After all, we also have respect for the social partners, and that is precisely why we propose in the proposal that a working group should be set up in which the social partners are involved. But we must also recognise that the social partners have had 46 years to pay women equal pay for 46 years! We have had targets, we have had all the knowledge that the organisations point to it, and there are tons of material on what to do, but it is political action that is lacking. We knew that when we put this proposal forward, it would be said that the social partners should be involved, and that is precisely why it is part of our proposal. So will the rapporteur confirm that the social partners have had 46 years to do so since the legislation on equal pay and that there is still no equal pay in the Danish labour market today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150552	Mrs. Maja Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150553	In other words, as I also emphasised in my rapporteur's speech, we in the Left believe that it is very much a matter of having a very gender-separated labour market. And that is why we need to look more at what it's like to have some structures in the education system too, so that we address ourselves more to both gender and gender. So we believe that we have to start somewhere else to prevent this very gender-separated labour market that we have today. And then we await the report that comes from the pay structure committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150633	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150635	In my three years here in the Danish Parliament I have tried to put equality between men and women on the agenda, and every eternal time I do so, whether it is about the right to outpatient treatment or about equal pay, you always say: we will act, but just not yet. That is always the answer I get: we are now waiting for one report and then we are waiting for the other report and then we are waiting for some information. We just never act now. It's not really a question, it's just a comment. Thank you, however, to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150709	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150715	Men and women are equal, but they are not paid equally. Despite the fact that we have had an equal pay law for many years, on average men still earn between 4 and 7 percent. more than their female colleagues, even if they are in the same position and have the same qualifications, and there are between 14 and 15% pay gap covering different functions, training choices, etc. There is no reasonable explanation for the pay gap, and that is not good enough. SF believes that equal work should be paid equally, and that is why we are also happy when other parties want to act in this area, because action is needed. We must act where it works and in ways that fit into the Danish labour market, and we are therefore somewhat uncertain whether a certification system is the right solution. We still have the benefit of seeing the effects of the model in Iceland, because it is a model that meets a great deal of criticism, among other things. for its quite unnecessary heavy and expensive administration. It makes better sense for us to start with initiatives which we know have a positive effect. For example: We want the provisions of the equal pay law to be amended to make it compulsory to produce gender-based pay statistics, including in smaller companies, because we know that this actually works. Openness and transparency allow for debate, and this often means that those who can see that they are lower paid demand change. SF is committed to ensuring that the so-called men's and women's professions are paid equally, which is why we are very much looking forward to the conclusions of the Labour Structure Committee. We agree with the intentions of the proposers, but we cannot support the proposal. We believe that there are other and better solutions that can ensure equal pay in Denmark. We want to help develop a model which is much better suited to our labour market and which we know works. This means that the social partners will be part of the solution and they have shown little interest in taking the path proposed by this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150951	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512150952	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I would say that when it is the SF that will not support the proposal, I will be more sorry than when it is the bourgeois parties or the Socialists who will not support it. It is true that this model has been criticized, but it is at least as true that this model has also been praised. And we have actually had a hold of the Prime Minister's Office in Iceland, the country that is at the forefront of equal opportunities, and they are waiting eagerly for the results and believe that much of the criticism that currently lies of the model is too early because you have not seen what the results are. Iceland is at the front, and when they wear this model, it's also a serious proof that it has to give something and that it has to batt. Then I have put forward proposals for outpatient treatment for women. In the negotiations, where SF was also involved, I have talked about the fact that we should have mandatory notices for board posts. And SF always answers that it is a good intention, but that you either wait for the Finance Act or wait for a committee or wait for something else. So it is really an open question for SF: what will the SF put forward concrete proposals that actually oblige companies to respond and provide for equal pay and not just proposals that deal with transparency about pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151122	Well, first of all, I'm really glad that Mr. Knox... Sikandar Siddique has been in contact with the Icelandic Prime Minister. It's SF's party buddy. So it's perfect. We follow very closely and have very close contact with Iceland in relation to how they deal with this. I think it would be reasonable for us, before we put it into effect in Denmark, to see how it is going to go in Iceland. Iceland has set some very nice ambitions that I myself find incredibly interesting to follow. I think there is good reason to doubt whether the conclusions here will be that the model will continue. But let's take a look. I mean, there are two arguments for what I am saying here. One is that we must involve the social partners; they are the ones who will bear the model of the labour market we have. And I think that the equal pay law should make it easier for the parties, by providing transparency in pay statistics. These are, in fact, the two things, in particular, that we have to base a solution on interaction with employers and trade unions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151223	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151224	Now I myself was involved in the negotiations on target numbers, and I tried to push that too, in relation to, for example, the fact that we were in the process of negotiating targets. must have mandatory notices about women on boards. The SF and the government were not ready either for an initiative that was actually regulatory and that actually worked. So I just have to ask the SF's rapporteur again: does SF have any proposals that go in and demand from businesses and industry that they should give equal pay and not just proposals for transparency about pay? But does the SF have proposals on the way and measures on the way that make companies pay equal pay to men and women?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151312	Thank you, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151313	Well, I'd like to know if it's an example that you make postings in relation to boards like it's supposed to move anything. It is then possible that it can move marginally into the corners of the labour market. But I understand that in Mr. Sikandar Siddique's self-understanding is what apparently needs to change the things that others have not managed to do in 46 years. Then I'll tell you, sir. Sikandar Siddique, that those who have run this are women workers' associations, that is 3F, it is the FOA, it is all the thousands of shop stewards who have taken the fight on a daily basis in the workplace and made sure that women today, after all, have approached men's wages, and that is not Mr. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151349	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. There is no rapporteur from the Radical Left, nor from the Enhedslisten. Conservatives are covered in the left. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151414	Thank you. Equal pay for equal work is a fundamental principle of our labour market. People must be paid according to what they can do and not according to who they are or what gender they have. Today, too, we have clear legislation in this area, including the equal pay law, where it is loud and clear: "There must be no discrimination on grounds of sex against wages in breach of this law. This applies both to direct discrimination and to indirect discrimination. As a matter of principle, it is the minister in office who is responsible at all times for ensuring that the legislation is complied with and that action is taken for it. I know that last summer, in the context of agreements and conflicts, we had a huge discussion about the wage differences that are, of course, and which, as I see it, are also based on the gender-based labour market with the large groups of public employees, women in the welfare sector, who have fallen behind. It was very clear. Following on from this, the Committee on Salaries' Structures was set up, which we must at least hope will come up with some results which can provide a basis for further work. And we really want to say that these are the results we have to wait for. What the authors of the motion for a resolution want is to tackle the challenge by introducing a compulsory equal pay scheme in line with the Icelandic model. I have a great deal of respect for the work that has been done in Iceland. I have the impression that it has been based to a large extent on the wish of the social partners that something should be done and that it has been developed jointly, starting with a voluntary scheme that has gradually been introduced by law. What is of course exciting is when, at some point, we have an evaluation from up there and can see what that means. As a company, you have the opportunity to take the scheme into account and use it. It is, of course, a standard that is made, which you can, if you wish, pull forward and continue working on. But here and now I think that we should wait and look at what the Labour Structure Committee comes with, and on the one hand make it difficult for the social partners at home, as I see it, not to shout that we should make a scheme like this. I really believe that if something like this is going to work, then there must also be an attitude among the parties to work actively to make it happen. So we recognise the problem in a way, but unfortunately we cannot support the resolution before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151646	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151648	We also have complete respect for the Danish model, and that is precisely why we propose in the proposal that this working group should be set up where the social partners are involved. But we also have to note that the social partners have had 46 years • 46 years That's why we want political teams to set in, which is necessary, where we invite the social partners in here and say: you couldn't solve it yourself, so now we help; now we make sure that you sit down and find a model that suits the Danish labour market and suits you. So it is really in respect of the labour market model, the Danish model, so to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151746	But I would also like to say that I think we should have respect for the course that took place last summer, when we, at least those of the Danish People's Party, went out and recognised that there are these differences. There are structures and frameworks which, as the rapporteur also says, have been there for 46 years or so. That's why this Committee of Salaries Structures was set up as a tool to try to find out some things; on the one hand, it should map exactly what has happened and what the situation is today, and on the other hand it should come up with some suggestions as to what can be done. There I have a clear expectation that the government, once that committee has completed its work, will take it seriously and ensure that something happens. But I would like to look forward to that happening before we can start discussing whether we should use other tools in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151836	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151837	Then I hear the rapporteur say that if the government is not ambitious enough after the committee has come back with its work, then the Danish People's Party, together with the Free Greens, will make ambitious proposals, for example. a proposal such as the Icelandic model adapted to Denmark, so that we can ensure that we get equal pay, that is, if the government does not respond ambitiously enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151901	If the government does not act on what is coming and if we get some evaluations from Iceland that say that this might do something, then I agree that we should sit down and have a talk, including with the social partners, in relation to whether we can continue working on one or the other. Of course, we are always open to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151920	Thank you. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512151926	Yes, it is another proposal based on a falsum, based on the tale that we in Denmark have a structural problem in the labour market with discriminatory pay based on gender. And in the three years I have been in the Folketing, I think it is the fifth case that we are dealing with about the same subject with new initiatives, all of which have the same premise, namely that something is going on that is illegal. Now I heard the rapporteur for the proposers, the Free Greens, say that every day there are violations of the equal pay law. There is absolutely no evidence to support that in any way. The latest inventory I saw, which was made in 2019, showed that there have been nine cases in the labour law on equal pay compared to there being a difference based on gender. Of the nine cases, two were successful, both remaining in 2009. We have approx. 2.8 million workers in the labour market. That two cases out of the 2.8 million wage earners in the labour market should be a product of structural illegality • the rapporteur said daily violations of the equal pay law • is, after all, simply a Fatamorgana. That is simply not correct. Then we hear that something is being said about the 14 per cent, and I also heard that the Minister mentioned the 14 per cent. The good thing about the 14 percent. is, of course, that it can actually be explained why there are those differences. There are many reasons why there are differences. These may be differences in education, industry, occupation or sector, and in this way one can actually completely soberly explain why there is the difference in pay. And then there's 2%. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this subject. can be caused. It may be the case that families choose to spend a little more time at home with children than men do or that families choose to take part-time jobs for women. It may also be that men more often have jobs with an increased risk premium and that men, for example, have a higher risk premium. More often, overtime takes place. And that can then explain why there is a pay gap compared to the last 2%. Then you can have a view that there must not be the difference in pay, that you must not choose different sectors and that you must not train for anything that pays more. However, I think that is quite reasonable: people choose the training courses and the jobs they have an interest in. And with regard to the idea that there is no biological difference between men and women or in which direction they choose, we just have to look at the Nordic and Scandinavian countries where we have our education system, which is tax-financed with su in Denmark and with loans in Norway and Sweden; there we can see that we are some of the countries where men and women choose something in different industries far away from each other. But it is based on voluntaryness and on a desire for what you want to work with. In no way could I want to restrict them in that way. So this bill is completely superfluous in my optics. It just puts more bureaucracy and more administration out to some companies that have plenty. So the thing about taking the lead where they say that Iceland is in the lead, and then we have to follow those who take the lead, I don't think we should. Denmark has the highest tax burden in the world. I don't see any reason why we should go that way. On the contrary, we need to reduce taxes and charges. So this is just another proposal made on a misguided premise which simply increases the cost to business, so we cannot of course support that in New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512152321	Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512152323	I would say that I am always surprised to speak with Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. In other words, the Minister has just been told that there is a difference in pay and there are a great many reports. Let me quote, and I quote Mona Larsen, senior researcher at VIVE, from 22 October 2020: "With the new analysis 85 percent of the pay difference can be explained'. In other words, 15 percent of this difference is unexplained. So it's true that they're 2%. could sound like it's a little bit. But what does 2% mean? in actual figures? Djøf's equal pay analysis from 2020 sets figures on it. This means that female bosses in the private sector get 9.3%. less in salary than their male colleagues or 89,000 kr. less a year. That is the 2% to which the rapporteur refers. The 2%. can mean up to 89,000 kroner. less in salary per year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512152424	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512152425	Oh, I think the rapporteur needs to go home and recount the figures. I would say that this is actually 85%. of the 14.4% that can be calculated and if there is a 9-percent wage difference with the managers, do not put them into the 2% that lies. And the 2%. can also be explained; there is just not the same way evidence for them. But they do believe that there are some natural explanations for them. The idea that there should be discrimination, that there should be a structural problem, that the law is being broken and that there is some patriarchal discrimination against women, which says that they cannot get the pay they are going to have, there is no evidence, because then those matters would have been there. We have even taken action both in 2006 and in 2007 both with gender-based pay statistics and also with an equal pay board, but the two bodies that have come up later in 2006 and 2007 have not caused any more cases in labour law to be raised on this issue. So there is simply no factual evidence to support the agenda that is being tried on here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512152531	Thank you. Sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512152534	Well, I just have to have a problem with it, because the rapporteur obviously knows more than the people who work with it every day, the professionals. I'm gonna try again. I quote Mona Larsen, senior researcher at VIVE • Senior researcher at VIVE • From 20 October 2020: • With the new analysis, 85 percent of the pay difference can be explained. In other words, 15 percent of this difference is unexplained. • • • •
ParlaMint-DK_20220512152603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512152605	Exactly, but I'm not saying that men and women get the same pay. I'm not in favour of them getting the same salary either. They have to get the same pay for an equal job and an equal function, but that's something else, and so do they. And the studies that have been carried out, including in the public sector, also note that men and women actually receive the same pay for the same jobs. But that there is a female leader and a male leader who gets two different salaries, I have no problem with that, for example. an employer who assesses what each performance is worth. It may also be that it is the woman who is paid more than the man on the individual company. I do not want to interfere in this at all from a political point of view. I think it's a misguided path to go down.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512152655	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. Now it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Sikandar Siddique.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512152719	This is an important discussion we have today, and I am therefore extremely sorry that my colleagues from the Group of the European People's Party and the Radical Left are not here. However, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you for a good debate. Thank you to the Minister for a good speech, although the Minister did not support the proposal. Over 100 years will pass before we achieve equality in Denmark if we continue at the rate we have today over 100 years! I don't know about you, but in Free Greens, we think it's quite absurd for a long time to wait for an equal Denmark. Lack of equality is a social problem and not an individual problem. That is why it is so much our political duty to find a solution. Today, in the Free Greens, we have put forward a proposal which requires both political will and courage to take action to solve the problem of equal pay, but unfortunately I have been confronted with a number of arguments as to why we should not do so right now and here: we have to wait; we have to wait for others to step in; we have to wait for the social partners to find a solution; wait for the EU to send a directive to Denmark; and wait for companies to find a solution voluntarily and at some point in the future. I just have to say that for the Free Greens that is not good enough. For 46 years, we have had an equal pay law, which is clearly not observed without consequences. It is too open-minded, and those who pay the price are underpaid, it is women. Our proposal here today calls for an end to this situation. We want to shift responsibility away from workers and to employers. It's not very radical, even if some of my colleagues in here would think so. If I may say so, it is actually a bit so last season, but it can also be said about Denmark's political equal opportunities efforts in general. What happens when you get involved politically in the work of equality? Yeah, what's happening is what's happened in Iceland. Progress is being made, real progress is being made. The small country in the north has been topping Global Gender Gap Index for 12 years in a row for 12 years! By comparison, Denmark is currently located at the moment. in place no. 29... I would like the Minister's attention here... So, Denmark is in the same statistics in place no. 29, whereas Norway, Sweden, Finland are located just after Iceland in places 2, 3 and 4. From the perspective of the Free Greens, it is frankly a small Danish position, and I hope the Minister will recognise that it is when it is countries that we compare with normally on all possible parameters. Iceland was also the first country in the world to present a woman as democratically elected head of state. You presented Europe's very first female president. They were also the first country in the world to actually claim equal pay. They have a progressive and ambitious maternity regime. They have had a female prime minister on several occasions, and just a few weeks ago they received UNDP's gold certification for their gender equality work in the world. It's clear they're peaking the index. When you ask the Icelandic politicians what the success is, the answer is: political courage to take action. Let me quote our colleague and former Minister for Gender Equality Ásmundur Daðason: "The overriding reason for Iceland's position on the list is due to political courage to take action. Because the development towards an equal society does not go fast enough of itself... We have not been afraid to use legislation and use the government's power. You can take bigger steps faster, and that's what Iceland has done. I'm so in agreement. The trend towards an equal society is not fast enough of itself, and we must soon face that in Denmark. And yes, it will cost companies something, and yes, it will cost us political will and courage. Remember, however, that lack of equality costs both on the economic, social and sustainable bottom line. So friends, I'm sorry we didn't manage to be brave politicians today. Let us hope that it will not be a hundred years before we take on character. Thank you again for the debate and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512153224	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512153227	After all, the rapporteur referred to that report by VIVE, and it is indeed a report that I have studied quite a lot. And let us take a look at what Mrs Mona Larsen is actually saying, because she is quite right to say that with the new analysis 85% can be done. the difference in pay is explained, and then there are the other 15%, i.e. an unexplained part of 2 percentage points. But she also writes: "The unexplained part of the pay difference is a statistical concept. It is not a measure of discrimination in the Danish labour market. The results can only serve as a basis for a discussion of what explains the difference between the two sexes' hourly earnings. Well, then we can put it on hold. This means that if there are unfair wage differences both in the part to which we can analyse ourselves and in the part to which we cannot, we must look into labour law, because there we have to assume that these matters end and there have been almost no cases, despite the fact that we have 2.8 million employees on the Danish labour market. And so you can see that with no snart of seriousness and seriousness you can say that there is a structural problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512153338	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512153339	First of all, I would like to say that no matter how small the difference is between the unequal pay, it is too much a difference. Let me make this clear, no matter how many percentages we're talking about. In addition, I have just said in my speech that it is a problem that we have had equal pay legislation for 46 years and that we do not have equal pay. We haven't had equal pay in 46 years. We don't. The Minister has explained it in relation to the figures; rapporteurs have been up here and talk about it; the reports show it. We do not have equal pay, and nothing is being done about it, and that is a huge, huge problem. So I recognise that the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party says that there are no matters that should be dealt with, but that in itself is also a problem. That's a huge problem. But the fact that it is said that this could then be the reason why there are no problems with equal pay between men and women in the labour market, I do not recognise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512153439	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512153441	I have just realised that the rapporteur obviously does not understand what the equal pay law is about. For the law on equal pay is that a man and a woman should receive the same pay for the same job. It does not mean that men and women should generally receive the same pay. And what the rapporteur is advocating is that men and women should receive equal pay in all aspects, and that has nothing to do with the equal pay law. Then I must not recommend that you just go back and read what that law is actually about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512153513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512153514	Oh, I think the rapporteur did not listen well enough. I have said this in my speech, and I also said it in the questions: these are the same positions, they are the same functions. If you take the 2%, which is the case, the 2 unexplained percent, and redeploy them in actual figures, that is up to 89,000 kroner. a year for the same posts. There is
ParlaMint-DK_20220512153544	Thank you. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512153608	The debate is open. Minister of Employment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512153612	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to start by thanking the authors of the proposal. Today's resolution is about how to ensure political focus on increasing employment among people with disabilities. And I would like to start by stressing that people with disabilities have a lot to contribute to Danish jobs and that we must ensure that there is the right framework for this. I very much agree that it is absolutely crucial that there is a political focus in this area. Therefore, one of my employment policy objectives for the efforts of the municipalities in both 2022 and 2023 remains that more people with disabilities are going into employment. A clear political focus is an important prerequisite for municipalities to focus on the area; it is also a clear prerequisite for more people with disabilities to enter the labour market. I therefore fully agree with the intention behind the motion for a resolution. Ongoing political focus is important, but it is also crucial that we follow up on how things are actually going. The motion for a resolution calls for an annual report on the employment situation of people with disabilities. It is true that the Ministry of Employment already has an obligation under the current rules to prepare an annual analysis of the labour market policy situation for people with disabilities. It is a clear obligation arising from the compensation law. In recent years, VIVE has carried out an analysis highlighting the employment situation of people with disabilities. The latest September 2021 report shows that, unfortunately, the proportion of people with disabilities in employment decreased from 2019 to 2020. Corona is, of course, part of the explanation, but it also shows that we are not in target yet there is potential for improvement. The proposers want better knowledge of the effects of the interventions that apply to people with disabilities in the job centres, but here there are real challenges. There is no record of people's disability in job centres. This is due to the fact that the information is sensitive to people. There is therefore no data base for assessing the effects of interventions undertaken for people with disabilities. This is a condition that cannot be changed simply by imposing a requirement for a further statement. The government also prepares statements that pick up in the field of disability across all ministries. This happens every two years with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Elderly in the lead, but of course the Ministry of Employment also contributes to the development and status of employment. The fact that the disability area has threads to all ministries also shows that it is important that disability policy is seen broadly and not only in a single ministerial area. But statements and debates in the Folketing cannot stand alone. Real action in this area is crucial for us politicians. We must ensure rules and practices that support the labour market in meeting the challenges that a disability can bring about. Fortunately, there are already good opportunities for help in the workplace. This applies, among other things, to: in the form of personal assistance or a means of compensating for one's disability so that one is able to do a job in this way. And it is the job centre that grants the schemes, and that makes sense because the case workers in the job centres are both familiar with the citizen and the company. But the law under which aid is given is old, yes, actually from 1998 onwards and does not meet the requirements of time. The Government is therefore working on the implementation of the Compensation Act in the field of employment. Among other things, it has to be done. ensure more appropriate use of the compensatory schemes and facilitate the administration of the country's job centres so that more people with disabilities receive the necessary help to get into employment. However, we will also be looking at initiatives to ensure earlier clarification and awareness of people with disabilities in job centres. It must create a better data base so that in the future we can more easily point to the effects of the interventions we offer to people with disabilities. In addition, the government is also continuing to follow the initiatives from the 2019 disability policy agreement. The agreement provides for, inter alia: organised a series of disability policy conferences to disseminate knowledge about people with disabilities to key actors in the field. By autumn 2021, a disability conference was held where a number of companies also participated to present how they work to include people with disabilities. Members of the Folketing from the various parties were also invited to come here. To pick up: the government supports the intentions of the proposal, but the government cannot fully support the proposal as it stands. This is due to the fact that the initiatives requested are largely available in advance. In fact, it is already clear from the law that the Ministry of Employment has to prepare an annual analysis of the employment situation of people with disabilities. VIVE has done this over the past year, and here you can see how many people have a disability and their employment situation. VIVE also looks at the level of education and what benefits are available with disabilities. Many of the points on which the motion for a resolution would like to focus are therefore contained today in the VIVE analysis. The government is therefore proposing that we put the current efforts more into the system and in this way respond to what is the intention of the proposal. The Government proposes that the Minister for Employment convenes the Employment Committee every year at a meeting where we can discuss the status of the area and the initiatives initiated. The starting point must be the annual report on the employment situation of people with disabilities drawn up by VIVE, but of course the committee can also make requests on the agenda. Finally, I would like to mention that the proposers of this year's negotiations on the SSA reserve can give priority to setting aside money to ensure that the good experience of disability policy conferences from the 2019 rate pool is continued and preferably in the form of a disability policy summit. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154204	Thank you. Then it's mr. Stén Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154207	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the positive statements on this proposal. I think, of course, that the initiatives which the Minister is also talking about we are taking in advance, but also what may come, call for us to meet on this important agenda. I also hear the Minister acknowledge this, namely that people with disabilities actually have a rather important agenda. I therefore think again that this must go towards a summit, you might call it a summit, or what you might call it a meeting, but a meeting in which politicians, trade unions and the social partners are helping to look into how far we have come and where, moreover, some effort could be found to turn up the fact that it will also be better in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154257	The rapporteur then heard me correctly. We fully support the intentions of this proposal, but as I also mentioned, a number of the initiatives proposed by the proposal already exist in one way or another. That is why I think I will propose specifically to the parties of the Folketing, if it is accepted that the parties of the Folketing sit together in committee and perhaps, together with the government, draw up a report on how to put the initiatives more into a system, so that it also reflects the intentions of this, I think, important motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154333	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154334	Thank you, and I certainly welcome that. After all, we have a political summit in Aalborg, where the municipalities, together with politicians and professionals, are talking about where Municipality Denmark is heading. The same applies to children, in other words to the children's policy summit, where politicians and professionals and municipalities meet to talk about how things are going and where we are going. And we in the Left believe that this agenda is so important that it could bear that we had that attention for one or two days in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154406	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154407	As I have said, the SSA reserve has also been used in the past to provide funds for the organisation of conferences, and that can be given further direction if you so wish. I believe that something that is at least important to take on board is that both the municipal summit, but also, for that matter, the Sorø Summit, which Mr. Stén Knuth mentions, both are summits which have been initiated and which have grown up from the grass roots. However, I have only seen, read and heard that many of the disability policy organisations support this. And if it is necessary, for example, that we should do something about it. In the SSA reserve, some money is given priority to start it up, so I think it should be entirely up to the parties to prioritize it. However, we welcome it very much and very much welcome it and take part in any kind of summits that may be convened.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154505	Thank you. And those were the questions to the Minister. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line. Sir. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154517	Thank you for that, President. I think I will put myself in a bit of a slippery position by the Minister and then, of course, start by signing off on the initiative of the proposers for us to have some discussion on how to increase political attention to the employment situation of people with disabilities. This is an insanely important discussion and, like the Minister, I share many of the good intentions of the proposers. All people can do something, and all people must have the opportunity to exploit that potential and be part of the working community. Both for society's sake, but most of all, of course, it is for their own sake. Unfortunately, there are a lot of people with disabilities who experience a lot of prejudice and a lot of closed doors when they try to find their way into the labour market. This is a pity because it means that the labour market is missing out on good skills, knowledge and labour. That is why, of course, I also agree with the proposers that we must ensure a political focus on increasing employment among people with disabilities. Because you could actually say that if not now, when the demand for labour is so high and unemployment is so low, when should we do so? Firstly, the proposal provides for an annual report on the employment situation of people with disabilities. However, the Ministry of Employment is already obliged to prepare an annual analysis of the labour market policy situation for people with disabilities. Secondly, the authors of the motion for a resolution want an annual debate to be held in the Folketing and to be convened for an annual summit. We can always discuss, in relation to these debate on the statement, whether this is something that basically helps to bring about structural change in this area. In addition, as part of the 2019 Rate Pool Agreement, we have organised a number of good disability policy conferences to disseminate knowledge about people with disabilities to key players in the field. This can also easily be implemented, as we see it, through the SSA. I am also pleased that the Minister has indicated that, in the light of the already annual report on the employment situation of people with disabilities, a meeting with the Employment Committee will be convened so that we can keep up with developments. But, of course, I also agree that the fine words from the platform do not necessarily have more people with disabilities in jobs alone. I believe, on the other hand, that the implementation of the Compensation Act and the continued focus on disability in the municipal employment policy objectives and more systematic in the existing initiatives, the Minister mentioned, would be some right and important steps in the right direction. I hope that in some way, both with the remarks that the Minister has made and I have made, we will have an opportunity to draw up a joint report. Because, as I sense it and hear it, we have the same objectives of creating better conditions for people with disabilities in employment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154833	Sir. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154835	Thank you. And thank you for your positive statement. I totally agree. In other words, summits and meetings do not mean that we are moving forward in this matter. I also think that the next rapporteur will talk about the fact that we have done this sometimes and that nothing actually happens. So how does the rapporteur feel about us committing each other to doing something that will enable us to move in the right direction? For all the ambitions and all the directions that the rapporteur is also talking about in this area, I also pay tribute, but how do we commit each other so that something happens?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154911	I think that to some extent we can do something. I think that is one of the things we need to have with the Minister when these evaluation reports come, perhaps to be a little more precise and specific about, that is, what sort of action we can take from here. But I do not think that this is something we can solve from in here alone; I think somewhere else we should also have the social partners involved in this. Because I think there are some barriers on the labour market that make it difficult for some of these people to get in and it is not necessarily legislation alone that does this; it is also a question of, I was just saying, taking the chance. And I think that when we are in the situation we are doing now, when there is a demand for labour, we have every opportunity to do something.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154956	Thank you. Sir. Stén Knuth, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512154957	Thank you. I totally agree. And I also agree that we politicians may not have to stand in here and tell us what it should be like and make rules and then hope that they work, but that we should also invite disabled people's organisations to discuss what they see and how they see a setup for how we can commit each other something more, so that something happens and something is being done about these things. And I think the rapporteur will confirm that these are also some of the ideas of the rapporteur in terms of moving forward, that is to say that we will involve the disabled organisations out there, who have a huge amount of knowledge that we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512155033	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512155034	Thank you. I can confirm that. Well, of course, I think that's really central. These organisations are, of course, some of the closest to these issues and therefore also have enormous knowledge and indeed expertise, both in terms of what the situation is like, but perhaps also what solutions need to be found in relation to this. So, yes, of course they must also be involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512155053	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512155101	Hopefully, the good times in the labour market force companies not to be quite so discerning when hiring new employees. If we use the boom wisely, we will have a new labour market with space for many different kinds of people, where not everyone can work full-time and too full-time. It is high time for a more inclusive labour market. I am actually so sick and tired of listening to this eternal song about sending for more foreigners or about raising the retirement age as the only two answers when so many Danes still want to contribute in the jobs. Such irresponsible jumping acts undermine a society that must be united. Let us enjoy the economic upswing and make room for, among other things. many more of the up to 49,000 people with disabilities who actually want to contribute some working hours. Let us establish a nationwide job bank where unemployed people with disabilities are matched with private and public employers. We owe a great deal of thanks to Danske Handicap organisations for constantly moving towards politicians, municipal administrations and employers, with whom they have just recently concluded an agreement with which it will be incredibly exciting to follow the roll-out of. I myself have also had great pleasure in attending meetings, hearings and activities organised by Danish Handicap organisations or by one of their sub-organisations. The SF wholeheartedly supports the intention behind the motion for a resolution, but in concrete terms we support the Minister's desire to coordinate the efforts already made and, in concrete terms, we support the Socialist rapporteur, Henrik Møller's proposal that we get this in a joint report so that we can do it in a coordinated manner and that we can have a better overview of it. But full support for the intention of the proposal, I just think that we are going further together by going the way that the Minister has taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512155327	That's it. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Christina Thorholm, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512155339	Radical Left also supports the intention of the proposal put forward by the Left. And thank you again for focusing on the conditions of disabled people, not least in relation to employment. For people with disabilities, employment is to a lesser extent in comparison with those without disabilities. Indeed, eight out of ten people without disabilities are employed, while almost four out of ten with greater disabilities are in employment. As one of the other rapporteurs also mentioned, 49,000 people with disabilities at the end of 2021 were out of work, despite the lack of labour. That is simply not good enough. It is not only about attitudes, but also about actions. It is gratifying to hear that the Minister has proposals in play in order to tighten up the initiatives, among others. by amending the legislation on compensation schemes and by making more systematic efforts. This is often the characteristic of the disability sector, that is to say there is a lack of a systematic approach, and it seems that this is also the case in the area of employment. There was one of the other rapporteurs who said: Intentions are fantastic, but actions bear more. Other countries have gone the way in which they work with targets for people with disabilities in employment compared to the individual workplace. I sow that seed because I find it interesting to say that there should be 1, 2, 3, 4%. In some of the other European countries, this is done by the employees of an organisation which has a disability. So we are ready for the negotiations on the intention to focus more on more action in relation to getting more people with disabilities in employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512155543	That's it. There are no comments. There is no one from the Enhedslisten, so this is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512155610	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. I'm a substitute for our employment rapporteur, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, and will therefore be very brief. We are, of course, on the good side of this proposal. For it is deeply frustrating that many people with disabilities experience being sorted out or having difficulty finding a job. It is not right, it is not fair and it is something we can and should do much better. But it often stays at the talking, and now we are talking a little again, and with the annual statement we even plan to talk even more. It is not because we are in any way opposed to it. However, allow me to think that it is important to make concrete initiatives rather than just standing here and deciding that there should be an annual statement. There is already economic inflation. We do not also need inflation in statements. Perhaps in the work of the committee we should move one step further and draw up a joint report across parties, so that together we commit ourselves, also forward-looking and regardless of the colour of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512155707	Thank you. There are no comments, and that is why it is now Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512155721	Thank you. I would also like to express my thanks on behalf of the Danish People's Party for the motion for a resolution, and at least we think that it is right to debate how we raise the issue of disability, particularly in relation to employment. I was just looking at a few figures for autists who actually have some very special skills, which also a few companies have found out, and they have employed some autists in some jobs that I think many in here might think were a bit boring and monotonous, but there can be autists using their skills, which are absolutely fantastic. Yet it is in fact only one in ten with autism that is in employment, and it is really a pity that in a society like the Danish one we are not better at looking at the individual and then looking at what competences you have as a human being and whether there is something here that companies can use. That is why we think that it is quite right that we have to have it up and discuss it at times. As the rapporteur for the Conservatives, I think it was, also said, that we could make a sensible write in connection with the work of the committee, where we could preferably and happily write something across the Chamber that obliges us to get a job started, that is to say, how we will use the resources that exist in Danish society for the benefit of those who are outside the labour market, but indeed also for the benefit of the labour market. We're not doing that well enough today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512155913	Thank you. There are no comments. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512155917	I guess I'm gonna get into the slipstream of the others, too. I think it's really nice that we focus on that. I also believe that some of what we have to look at, and which we must also recognise, is that the economic situation is simply also involved in this area. No matter what decision you make and try to make in here, there is just a reality with some economic conditions, which means that people with disabilities will probably and often sometimes be on the edge of the labour market, and that is why when the economic situation is down, it is also those who are hit first. One might ask whether it is fair or unfair, but that is the reality. That is why I think it is sensible to keep on making sure that there is a demand for labour out there, whether we have our tax system, our labour market, so that people can work less hours. to overcome an occupational injury or something else, but which has a perhaps permanent disability which means that they cannot be 37 hours on the labour market. There I think we can do something structural to ensure that it gets better. Now they mentioned 128 million. kr. or something like that, I think it was put in place by the previous government to get, I think it was 13,000 more people with disabilities in jobs up to 2025, and I would like us to perhaps visit it and look at how it went with the funds it was put in place, how it went with all the funds that have been set aside. Has it had an effect, what effect has it had, and what effect has the means used on it had, and what has been the effect of a natural boom, a corona crisis and now an increase in inflation? If we look at the economic figures before the crisis in Ukraine and everything else, we see for 2024 and 2025 an employment that has stalled. If you look at the economic ratios for 2024 and 25, you will see that there is no increase in employment. There I am afraid that if there is a situation where there is no general increase in employment in the labour market, it will be the people with disabilities who will be in trouble there. So I also think that we should try to look at that path, and we are very, very open to it, and I hope that in committee we may be able to discuss it in more detail and perhaps get someone in from the Ministry to explain what the impact of the funds used by the Folketing has been. I don't know. Sometimes you forget that. It is very easy to give out funds here, but the one that follow-up on what the effect has been is sometimes missing. So we would very much like to take a look at that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512160214	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. I do not see anyone from LA, the Free Greens or the KD, and then we give the floor to the proposers, and that is Mr. Stén Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512160242	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Minister and the rapporteurs for your good speeches and good intentions. All I hear is that we want the same thing, that is to say we want a comprehensive overview, coordinated efforts, but also commit each other to how we can help each other to get better at this. One year ago, we had an open hearing, including that of the Commission. with the SF rapporteur, where we had invited one of the disabled organisations, and then we discussed with them how to move forward, and the rapporteur said at the time that we have been sitting here sometimes, but nothing really happens, and there is a huge frustration among citizens with disabilities because they do not feel heard, they do not feel that they are part of those communities that we know so well from the jobs. So there's really, really much to do here. I think it will also be important for us to listen to the disability organisations to hear what they think about this. I do not think that the ambition to have a summit at some point is less in the Left right now, and we will try to work on that. And we are also very much in favour of making a joint report that can cover all parties, about the action that must be forward-looking on this, where we commit each other, and where we also take initiatives that make people with disabilities feel that we are actually taking it seriously and doing something that will give them better opportunities to be in the labour market. Thank you for the debate and thank you for the very good speeches. I look forward to discussing this further and look forward to a joint report in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512160449	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512160505	The debate is open. We give the floor to the Minister for Employment first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512160539	Thank you. The Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance have tabled a motion for a resolution that the ATP should not manage external capital alongside the management of the ATP funds. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is to prevent ATP from starting new competitive activities in the private capital management market via the PEP VII Fund. This is a rather technical proposal. It is a proposal that interferes with ATP's investment opportunities and that could have a major impact on ATP funds. The proposal is based on concerns and fears that ATP is moving into unfair competition with private investment companies. This is a concern which the government considers to be unfounded, which also makes the proposal unnecessary. Before I begin to explain why I think the proposal is unfounded, I would like briefly to refresh the Parliament's memory of ATP's history. I think it is important to remember that many considerations have been made when the ATP was set up. ATP was set up in 1964 as a supplementary pension scheme. The purpose of the scheme was to be an important part of the economic well-being of the country's folk pensioners. Therefore, ATP was made an independent, self-owned institution under the direction of a board of directors, a board of directors and a director. The top task of the management was that ATP invests ATP funds so that the interests of its members are safeguarded in the best possible way. They must therefore ensure the real value of the ATP funds and thus their topicality. And the scheme is still topical and important today, especially for the 40% where ATP is the only supplement to the national pension. ATP can maintain the real value of ATP funds by investing the funds. And in order to ensure the value of the funds, we in the Folketing have an important task. Indeed, we must ensure that the regulatory framework is there for the ATP to be able to secure the real value of investment. And I note that ATP is capable of investing ATP funds within the framework that they currently have. But that is actually the framework in which the motion for a resolution intervenes. The motion for a resolution will have exactly the opposite effect, namely restricting ATP in their investment opportunities. The government thinks it should be considered very carefully when we want to deprive ATP of an investment opportunity which is currently possible. It will hit the value of the ATP funds and therefore also all those who pay to the ATP. I started by saying that I would come back to why the government thinks the proposal is unfounded, and I would like to explain that now. The proposal has been put forward because of a concern that private investment firms cannot compete with ATP. That concern has existed since the ATP announced in October 2020 that external investors would be opened up with the PEP VII Fund. The concern was that ATP would thus become an actor in a market in competition with private capital managers, which would be contrary to the State aid rules. Since then, a little has happened. I've got one of them. the matter was referred to the Internal State Aid Advisory Committee. The Advisory Committee on State Aid and the Attorney General considered that there was no State aid and stressed that the PEP VII Fund and the Parallel Fund were an expression of market conditions, and investments are generally made on market conditions in order to optimise the ATP pension funds. This means that the assessment is that ATP acts under market conditions. That is why the government believes that the resolution goes too far. The proposal does not create the framework for maintaining the ATP as a guaranteed lifelong pension. The government therefore does not support the proposal and I look forward to constructive discussions with the parties of the Folketing. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512160928	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512160931	Thank you for your comment on the motion for a resolution. We basically share the same positive view of ATP as a crucial pillar of our pension system. It's a concept we share one by one. But what concerns us is whether ATP is moving into a market where there are already other players. And when the Minister says that this is going to upset ATP's capabilities, please confirm that until 2020 the ATP has not taken advantage of this option and that so far I know that external capital has not entered the fund we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161021-2	Yes, and in that light the question can be put back: why would the ATP deprive ATP of that opportunity, knowing from the government's State Aid Committee and from the Chamber Attorney that it is not contrary to state aid rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161035	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161036	There I think there is a continuing discussion of a more legal nature about it. But let me take the more fundamental question. When ATP has so far invested all of our money itself and will now also take on the task of investing other investors' money, does the Minister believe that it is fully in line with the aim of ATP, namely to interest our ATP savings? Does the Minister also believe that it is ATP's job to manage external money?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161115	Basically, I believe that this is in line with the aim of the ATP, namely to interest the savings of all of us, and they are, of course, very, very good at that, as the rapporteur himself says. And ATP's Board of Directors has itself considered that this is an opportunity that you would like to take advantage of in the future in order to gear investments in larger projects. At any rate, we have supported this opportunity from the government, because we trust that it can also be a tool to ensure a higher return on our all saved ATP funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161149	Then it's Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161151	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. As I see it, ATP has one task, and it's like managing these pension funds that we're all throwing in. And I also think that it follows from the ATP law that that is exactly what ATP should stick to, that is exactly the task. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161208	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161210	Yes, it is quite right that ATP should manage our savings, but it is also intended to interest our savings, and fortunately ATP is very good at that. And that is why we also have great faith in it when the board of directors of ATP decides that new tools will be put into use in the market that is now, where you also want to engage in larger projects. Of course, we do not want to deprive ATP of that possibility when there is no legal basis for it to be in breach of the State aid rules or the like.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161245	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161246	Thank you. But does the Minister think it is quite fair that the ATP goes in and makes this seventh fund and thus starts to invest with private investors and thus, in my opinion, creates a distortion of competition in the market? So, how far can we really be allowed to go in the ATP to optimize pension assets?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161308	Basically, as long as it is within the regulatory framework, we would like to make available to the ATP the tools that make it possible to act on the market. Well, it is an independent fund with an independent board of directors whose purpose is in fact to secure guaranteed pension for all Danes. Fortunately, they are very good at this, and that is why we would like to contribute to the provision of the tools that are deemed necessary on the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161339	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We are grateful to the Minister and then we start with the rapporteur's line. It's first, sir. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161351	Thank you. With the resolution here, the Left, the Conservatives, the Danish People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance want to remove the possibility that ATP can manage external capital alongside the management of ATP funds. The proposers are concerned that ATP will start a new competitively distorting economic activity in the private capital management market and start task theft by opening up investments to private external investors. I therefore agree with the proposers that ATP plays an important role in the Danish pension system, which fortunately also ensures good returns for the benefit of Danish pensioners. However, I do not share the concerns of the proposers that ATP is moving into unfair competition with private investment companies. I do not do so after both the Attorney General and the Government's State Aid Committee have considered that there is no illegal state aid, that the establishment and management of the PEP VII Fund and the Parallel Fund are an expression of market conditions, and that investments are generally made on market conditions in order to optimise pension funds. I would like to emphasise that the management of ATP has the task of securing ATP funds, such as: employees pay to, real value and topicality. However, this requires us here in the Folketing to create the regulatory framework so that the ATP can ensure the real value of investment. In the past, we have had a proposal that, it might be said, loosen the framework slightly in relation to the risk-taking that ATP should have, because it was possible to see problems with whether the remuneration could be good enough to secure pensions in the longer term. I believe that the content of the motion for a resolution here will weaken the possibility of securing real value by limiting ATP in their investment opportunities. That is why the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution, and I can say on behalf of the Enhedslisten that neither can they.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161559	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161603	I should just like to get it right: the Social Democrat rapporteur believes that the ATP should have the opportunity to act on equal terms with any other capital manager.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161620	I believe that the ATP should be allowed to act within the framework of the parallel agreement and the PEP VII fund here. That is the framework that we would like to contribute to providing the ATP, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161632	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161634	But so far, it has been the case that ATP skilfully and I think we are very many who are grateful for the money invested and secured a quite, quite nice return, but ATP has not set itself for the table end and invested external money. Well, that's why the case calls attention to itself. This is a completely new instrument in which ATP takes on a completely different active role not only in investing our money, but also in investing money for an American capital fund, and in which ATP sits at the bottom of the table. I just want to understand that the Social Democratic Party believes that is a perfectly natural task for the ATP to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161715	But it will be almost the same answer, because it was almost the same question, understood in the sense that some of what we have at least received an answer to is that there is no distortion of competition in, or at least illegal State aid in, the PEP VII Fund and the Parallel Fund. And since it is an expression of being able to act on market conditions, we support it and it is part of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161738	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161746	We have to keep arm's length to ATP's investments, and we should not hold back the best possible return on their savings. The resolution opens the way for any political majority to have such a concrete influence on ATP's investment strategy. Capital investment can actually contribute to a better return for pension savers and that more risk capital will be put on the market and both we actually think in SF is very good. I understand that the proposers are worried about the competitive situation. So are we in the SF. We are concerned about the poor competition, which, among other things, is one of the reasons for this. because Danske Bank, with its huge size and dominance, fills most of the market, while the rest is taken by Nordea. If you are concerned about this, you should not rule out or restrict a new player. However, I would also like to say that, as I see a pension saver like ATP, we can expect that only a small part of ATP's capital will be invested in this way, but that is for the safety of pension savers. The SF cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161917	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. I cannot see the radical rapporteur, so we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512161951	Thank you for the floor. Since ATP was created by law on 3 March 1964 to administer the compulsory pension scheme, a great deal has happened both with our pension and with investments in general. We all want our pension savings to be as valuable as possible, but of course it won't work if ATP, in their zeal, does competition-distorting business at the same time. When ATP announced in October 2020 that in the future they would invest capital from third parties in foreign provider agency funds together with Danes' ATP money, I was frankly very concerned, because when you allow it, ATP operates a company that is in direct competition with private asset managers and that is not really the intention. ATP has historically invested only the money that the Danes have been legally required to deposit to the ATP, and I think that is also the result of the ATP Act, and that ATP should stick to that task. When you do capital management, you basically have two difficult tasks. The first is of course to attract some capital from investors, and the second is to invest the money and manage it as well as possible. ATP is in the favourable situation that they do not have the difficult task of attracting capital; it gives ATP a unique opportunity to compete with private asset managers, who need to spend very considerable resources on being allowed to manage capital for others. However, I do not think we can live with the fact that the ATP through a new fund not only invests money in foreign capital funds, but also does it for other money tanks and investors. After all, this gives an unfair competitive advantage to the State. The financial resources of this PEP VII fund will be used in a competitive market, but the funds will come from a non-competitive market, namely ATP's statutory exclusive right as manager of a large-scale pension fund. It may actually constitute a form of cross-subsidisation. At Conservatives we definitely recognise ATP's investments, which for many years have given solid returns for the benefit of Danish pensioners, and we do not want to limit ATP's ability to generate attractive returns. However, we do not believe that a State-funded pension fund should be given the opportunity to invite private investors to participate in, among others. private equity investments of the pension company, as has happened in the context of this PEP VII fund. That is why, together with the other bourgeois parties, we have tabled this resolution which will exclude ATP from competing with private investment companies and with the management of funds for private investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512162225	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512162241	Thank you. ATP is the place where the Danes safely pay into their pension and where ATP places the money to the best of their ability where it provides the best return. ATP does not have any competitors, they have a statutory exclusive right as manager of pension funds, but what would happen if they started to be asset managers in a stock market and, alongside their tied task, started to manage funds other than pension funds? They would then first of all be in competition with the many good private capital funds, including SMEs, which do not have a Chinaman's chance to compete with them. So when we turn ATP into the sole manager of pension funds, we also have a duty to ensure that they stick to it, and that is why we have helped to table the proposal together with the Left, the Conservatives and the other bourgeois parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512162336	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512162344	Thank you. Former rapporteurs, and I think the rapporteur of the Left will do so, have explained the substance of this, so there is no need to repeat it. For us in New Citizens, this free and equal competition is really, really important, and we think we need a little adjustment here. Basically, one can also ask oneself, and I fully acknowledge that the ATP has played a very, very important role historically and such things as where the labour market is working, what role these things should play and how much freedom we should give to citizens in the future. These are some other discussions, but I also think it is worth discussing when we have such a big player on the field whether it should continue in this way. But at least this is an attempt to say that there must be a demarcation and that there are limits to how large we should leave these here and how many tasks they should have beyond what has already been legally assigned to them, and it is clear that we in the new citizens support our own resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512162439	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. I don't see anyone from the Liberal Alliance, Free Greens or KD. We shall now give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512162452	Thank you for that and thank you for your support for my colleagues who are co-sponsors of the proposal. There are, of course, some of the parties of the Folketing that we have to wait a little in excitement for, in relation to what they officially report, but I look forward to doing so with anticipation. Let me start by stating that ATP is extremely important for the Danish pension system. It has been an incredibly important piece in ensuring that all Danes have access to a supplementary pension and not only are dependent on a national pension. It is ingrained in the Danish pension system, and we have developed ATP on several occasions, so we ensure that now also people outside the labour market pay up to ATP, so that they also have the opportunity to get ATP when they reach the retirement age. Nor should the roses be short of the historic efforts made by the ATP to manage all our pension funds. That is what we are concerned about, and what may just deserve a little extra words on the way in relation to the reason why we have tabled the motion for a resolution. It is true that it starts back in 2020, when ATP announced that they would create a Private Equity Partners Fund, with number VII, which would not only manage ATP's funds, but should also be open to others to invest money in it. We hadn't seen that before from ATP. That is why there was a discussion about the competition in this and the state aid in it. I believe that it was Gorrissen Federspiel who produced a rather thorough legal note which highlighted some challenges and problems. I know that the government has had the DA to give a response. I think that the legal discussion is probably not over yet, and I do not really understand why we should risk running into a case of breaches of state aid rules. One thing is that, in our opinion, ATP is moving on the edge of competition law and state aid law. I have to say that I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr SF, for his honesty. Karsten Hønge, who thought it was a big problem that Danske Bank and Nordea filled a lot in the Danish pension market. So for him it was important that ATP compete on equal terms with them. I think that was actually honest talk, and I would just like to say that I do not believe that ATP should act as a capital manager in competition with Danske Bank, Nordea or all sorts of other asset managers or financial institutions. Perhaps it was an admission that was to be felt and felt. Because that is what concerns us. I would also like to draw the attention of the Social Democratic Party to the fact that back in 2018, we actually reached an agreement on fair and equal competition between public and private actors. So it is not something that is unknown to the Social Democrats to be concerned about, that is to say, ensuring fairness in relation to how public and private actors act. In my view, there is at least a long way to go from the text of the agreement and then to the situation we are facing today. There is competition, but I also believe that there is the principle of public theft. In other words, when there is a well-functioning private market, is it reasonable that a public institution should act in direct competition with private individuals? I find that quite difficult, that is to say, when there are private players, the public sector must act. Because there will always be the risk of having it done in a fair way. Is it reasonable for a public kitchen on weekends to provide catering on equal terms with private companies or for a road and park department also to be able to offer private tasks? There, I believe, the reality has shown that there are a number of challenges. As I said, we made an agreement on this back in 2018, and we think it was quite reasonable from the point of view of the Left. So, of course, we are excited about the final feedback from some of the parties that have not been present in the Parliamentary Chamber today, because we believe that it is essential to maintain a pillar such as ATP in the Danish pension system, but we also believe that it is important to say that ATP has a task to manage Danish pension savers' funds in the best possible way. However, we find it difficult to see the logic that ATP should at the same time act as a private capital manager and act with private companies to raise capital, when ATP has the advantage that every month there is money in the treasury, which is statutory and contractual, and which helps to ensure that Danes' pensions grow every year. That is why, as I said, we have this proposal to say that let us now ensure that ATP continues with what they are good at, but that ATP should not engage in competition with private operators who are already fulfilling that task. I look forward to further work on the proposal during the committee work, and then we will see how we end up dealing with it. But, of course, the work of the committee will reflect that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512163133	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Karsten Hønge
ParlaMint-DK_20220512163136	I'd like to ask Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, on behalf of the Left, believes that today there is healthy competition in the capital market, which is openly dominated by a few major players.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512163148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512163149	In fact, I have some doubts as to whether this is the Danish market, sir. Karsten Hønge is preoccupied with, or whether it is such in general. If that is the case in general and you look at a global market for capital management, I would say that there is fierce competition. There is a struggle to take action to attract investment and thus be allowed to manage it. Of course, there is also a fierce competition to deliver the best return, for all investors are interested in that for good reasons. This is also why it is important in terms of competition if ATP is to act in competition with completely private players who do not have access to capital, who regularly enter every month and who are legally bound. On the other hand, a private asset manager has to go out every day and convince investors that you are skilled enough to deliver a proper return and thus attract investors' money.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512163252	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512163253	I really think that, regardless of whether you come to the conclusion that there is in fact not enough competition and that it would be good to get one more player on the line or whether you say that there is actually good competition, and therefore they themselves must compete under those conditions, the question to Mr. In fact, Torsten Schack Pedersen will be able to agree that this will make it possible for pension savers to get a better return on their money. What is more important is that ideology or that we get more money for our pensioners?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512163318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512163319	I'm a little worried about Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge basically takes a discussion on the competitive situation and Mr. Karsten Hønge then, as I must understand the question, believes that a possible competition problem should be solved by ATP starting to act in a fully private market. There we may basically disagree on whether it is a public player's role to increase competition by being a market player or whether it is common rules of competition law that we should be discussing. But I'm clearly on the basis of that, sir. Karsten Hønge says that Mr. Karsten Hønge thinks it's fine that ATP is in competition with private asset managers. That's quite fair. We then only have a political disagreement about this, and we also have a relatively different view of how it relates to state aid rules and competition law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512163412	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Employment Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512163426	The debate is now open and we shall first give the floor to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Henrik Møller. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512163448	Thank you. The bill, which we are now going to deal with, is about holding hands under those children and children's families where Mom and Dad are not at work. But before I wish to justify the support of the Social Democratic Party for the bill, let me start somewhere else. Because, as you all know, employment in Denmark is going very well. Recordmany Danes are part of the labour market, they stand up and contribute to the community, and that is very good. Because there should be no doubt that, as Socialists, we believe that the best thing for all children will be to see Mom and Dad stand up and go to work. That is what we must strive for. However, although employment is high and a great many have been raised from cash aid to self-sufficiency, we still have to get the last of them with us, and we must not forget them, and most importantly, we must not forget the children. There are three essential considerations in the draft law that we are discussing here today, and which we in the Social Democratic Party attach an incredibly high importance to. One is that there must always be a gain by taking a job. The second is that we must not increase the influx to Denmark through high benefits, and the third is that it must never be the children who have to pay the price for mother and father not being at work. That's why we made an agreement on a temporary family allowance back in the autumn of 2019. The purpose of the temporary family allowance has been to provide children with reasonable conditions and equal opportunities to be part of the community. In fact, it has fairly major consequences when children are excluded from the community of the local leisure association, just to give an example. We are currently engaged in negotiations on a new cash assistance system, and that is of course not an easy task. We need to agree on how to design our cash assistance system in the future, so that, in one way, both transparency and simplicity, and in the other, we also take into account the benefits of taking a job and the living conditions of children. That is why I think the right thing to do is to give the process the time it needs, which is why it is also necessary to extend the temporary allowance. Of course, children should not suffer from the political need for more time to agree on how a new system of benefits should be properly weighted. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512163710	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur, and we now move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512163721	Thank you. At a time when companies are crying out for labour, it seems paradoxical that the government is putting forward a bill to extend the temporary family allowance for the third time. I mean, a single parent with two children now needs 2,000 kroner. extra tax-free per month. Now that the government is once again raising social benefits for unemployed refugees and immigrants in particular, it is astonishing when the Prime Minister promised before the elections that the benefits would not be increased. After all, this is a completely wrong direction in employment policy, which helps to reduce the incentive to take a job, and neither the economy nor the individual to be on public support benefits. Today, half of non-western immigrant women at home are not in jobs, while seven out of ten ethnic Danish women in the labour force are in employment. In the Left, we believe that as many people as possible should contribute to the community. We believe that it should be an independent objective in itself to pursue a policy that brings people up in the morning to do a job, and when the Liberals last had the power of government, we were in charge of introducing the ceiling on cash benefits, the integration allowance and the 225-hour rule, and at that time 87,000 children experienced one of their parents leaving the cash assistance system. The Left has also presented an immigration initiative in which we will abolish temporary family allowances. Children have three times the risk of becoming cash benefits if only one of their parents is on cash benefits. That is why we cannot support the draft law today. Then the Social Democrat rapporteur was of the opinion that the reason why the bill was tabled was that it should always be worthwhile to work, that high benefits should not be equal to relaxing foreign policy and that children should not pay the price. But the kids are gonna be the ones who pay the price when Mom and Dad don't go to work, and the benefits are gonna be increased with this bill, and the benefits of taking a job are gonna be less with this bill. So with all this, the government is hitting the side of the dial with this bill, and that's why we can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512163956	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164004	Then we will have to go back to that again and again to extend the temporary family allowance, which was actually just a temporary patch we found in connection with the paper of understanding which the support parties designed together with the government. It was back in August-September 2019 that we agreed that the temporary extraordinary family allowance should enter into force instead of the actual agreement on a new benefit system. Quite frankly, I do not think it is overly elegant that we should now again deal with the same legislative proposal by postponing it again. But that is what we have ahead of us. On the other hand, the SF's objective remains exactly the same, namely to tear down the ceiling on cash aid and to set an ambitious plan for how we will noticeably and undetectablely have fewer poor children in Denmark, to add more money to the system, and to create a more simple and transparent system for total public services. It is good to have a look at the total benefits and see how they play together. It is therefore difficult to wait for the negotiations to end with results, but it is quite impossible to wait for children in poor families. It is necessary to protect children as well as possible during the waiting period, which is why it is good that today we are again extending the temporary exceptional allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164133	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164136	Thank you. I fully agree with the frustration that we have to stand here again and extend the temporary family allowance. I just couldn't help myself because earlier from the platform it was made to sound as if the temporary family allowance meant that people wouldn't take a job. It is actually the case that we can take this discussion scientifically; it doesn't have to be something like that with eyesights or bourgeois guts. Three days ago the evaluation report came in relation to work and temporary family allowances, and I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not also true that we can actually see that it has not meant what else can be heard from others that it should have meant that people have not sought work but that, on the contrary, more people have actually got away from the benefits in which they have received temporary family allowances?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164226	Well, I got tired all over my body when I heard the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Hans Andersen, do these liberal exercises freely on the floor, where ends that never existed were bowed down, and with magic spells that have nothing to do with reality. In short, you can say that the ceiling on cash benefits works yes, it works: it creates more poor people. Does it work in relation to getting people to work? Almost not at all. Even on a good day with winds on bike paths and high sun it got 450 people at most, not in work, but into the labour market, and it is not certain that they got to work, whereas in the last 13 months we have now seen 166,000 people getting into jobs without we pissing off and ruining the lives of ordinary people, but simply because there were jobs available. We do not need to discuss any more whether the ceiling on cash benefits works or what it takes to get people into work. It is completely documented and one must be an exceptionally galvanised liberal in order to claim that people's lives must be polluted in order to get them into work, when we can see that 166 000 people entered the labour market without destroying anything, and without these so-called reforms, whereas the ceiling for cash aid was only good for one thing, and that was to make people poorer, apathetic and relentless in order to get their lives going.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164333	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164335	I can only agree with that. I think that's spot on. Another thing where I couldn't help but curl my toes was in relation to the whole picture that the fact that your parents are on cash benefits should be what matters to whether you end up on cash benefits yourself. Is it not also true that what does, if anything, mean that one does not get an education in one's future and that one does not get to work • something that really has major social consequences • is about living in poverty? So if there's something this actually does with the temporary family allowance, it's that we're helping more people in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164409	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164409-2	It is quite obvious that the best thing for children in this context is to have parents who have an education and a job where they earn their own money and where you know that you can handle your life. That is clearly the best help you can give your children. But we must also note that just a few years of poverty can be measured for the rest of your life in terms of a less likely job and more likely early retirement. Poverty in childhood is a tattoo that is incredibly difficult to wash for the rest of your life.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164439	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And I do not see anyone from the Radical Left, so we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164457	Thank you for the floor. Today we are going to deal first with the extension of temporary family allowances. This is an agreement that we made as one of the first when the new parliamentary majority came in, which helps almost 30.000 children and lifts almost 7 000 children above the poverty line. That is a very clear and clear difference, compared to if it is a blue majority that is in here or if it is a so-called red majority that is in here. Is that enough? No, by no means, and that is why it is not with the big smile that we are going to vote to extend the temporary family allowance. Of course we do, because it should not be these children who are going to pay the price for how slow it has been to make the deal we are going to make about a new system of benefits. But we need to do something. In fact, I think that in addition to the discussion or the conversation we had with Mr. Karsten Hønge from SF just before, there is another perspective that actually also lacks. Very often we talk about the consequences for the individual child who cannot get an education, for the individual people who cannot pay their bills and the consequences it has. But I do think that we are forgetting that, and it is also one of the things that should make it easier for the Social Democrats to actually make a proper agreement in the area of benefits, what this has to do with society as a whole. We have some really strong trade unions in Denmark, and they clearly have a huge share of the credit for having good wages and a good working environment. But something else that is also important for us to have the level of pay that we have in Denmark is also about social benefits. It's about the cash benefits, and it's about the cash benefits. Because it also helps to put a bottom below what it is that employers can push their wages down to. There has been a great deal of criticism, among other things. from the Left, by the fact that we have helped some of those who are on the integration service, or the SHO service. And I just want to say that this is classic employer policy. We have just seen how Ukrainian war refugees are being used in a temporary agency and have to work for 75 DKK. per hour before tax • 75 kr. It's an hour. And that is exactly what my point is: if you set the benefits to a certain level, if you keep hollowing them out and lowering them, then it will also get into wages. So this whole thing about us having a proper system of benefits is, of course, about the children who lose their future because they grow up in poverty. It's about the adults, the people who get hit by the system. But it is also, in fact, about our entire welfare society and our entire labour market and the security of employees. So we are going to vote in favour, but there is a bottom-up task in getting that agreement and a new system of benefits done, and it is urgent, because this agreement only helps some people, and we therefore need to clear up the scandalous agreements that have been made by the previous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164814	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164827	Thank you for the floor. Here too, Mr President, I am a substitute for our employment rapporteur. Niels Flemming Hansen, who couldn't be here today. But that should not prevent him from giving the short and clear conservative attitude to the bill, namely that if you can work, then you have to work and that, of course, work must pay off at the same time. Unfortunately, this proposal is moving in the opposite direction, which is why we cannot vote in favour of the proposal, just as we did not vote in favour of the previous extensions and the original proposal, which is based on the understanding paper prepared by the government together with the supporting parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164857	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512164907	Well, here we are again, where gifts are kindly given to non-western immigrants. Everyone knows that this proposal is about people on return and transitional benefits. That's 2,000 kroner. tax-free every month to the families who are outside the labour market. 45% of non-western immigrants do not participate actively in the labour market, and now they are rewarded for it by up to DKK 2,000 if it is a family of children. Of course, the Danish People's Party cannot support this. There is no doubt that this is a relief for foreigners, because when you increase the amounts, Denmark becomes more interesting to come to. Nor is there any doubt that if you increase the amount, it will be less interesting to enter the labour market. And that is why, of course, the Danish People's Party cannot support the fact that more than six months are now spent another 160 million. kr. to keep the non-western immigrants at home on the Danes' expense.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165013	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165016	Thank you. I usually like the cooperation we have in the field of social dumping, and I cannot help thinking that I think that the Danish People's Party is going to be an employer's party in this situation. If it were that you would not in practice get an hourly wage of 40 kroner. on the integration service, but actually had the same level of pay as the others, then there would be far less chance of seeing what we have seen with the temporary agency, which is pushing Ukrainian war refugees to do cleaning work and work in agriculture to 75 DKK. It's an hour before taxes. Can not the Danish People's Party see that there is a problem here, that is to say that employees are actually being pressured in the cleaning industry and in agriculture, by having such low benefits in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165114	Not at all. You have to be careful not to mix pears and apples together. After all, some of these people have come under the asylum rules because they need residence and protection. What you are doing here is a tremendously economic reward for these families of children who have stayed out of the labour market who have not tried to be self-supporting while staying in Denmark. And we think that's a problem. While raising the benefits as significantly as you do here with as much as DKK 2,000. tax-free per month, of course, makes it more attractive to come to Denmark. It should be remembered that the people who come to Denmark and seek asylum choose Denmark because it is an attractive country to come to. It is not the people who are wrong with it; it is the system that is wrong with it and here the system goes the wrong way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165153	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165155	I do not think that the rapporteur fully answers why we are prepared to create real social dumping and to press employees into the labour market. After all, it helps to pressure the other employees that there are now some who can be pressured to work for 75 kroner. per hour in the cleaning industry and in agriculture. So, regardless of what the Danish People's Party should think of people fleeing war and in need of asylum, it should at least be ensured, for the sake of employees, that no one is being pressured to say yes to such bad wages.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165229	We want there I very much agree with the questioner that everyone should be on an orderly labour market. Regardless of whether you have come under asylum rules or how you have come to Denmark, we should not exploit the labour force in Denmark; then we should not compete on the lowest common denominator. So I agree very much. But what is the challenge here is that Denmark becomes an attractive country to come to and seek asylum in, while at the same time there are also some that are maintained outside employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165256	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165303	Thank you, President. This was a bad proposal the first time it came, the second time it came, and when it was extended, and our position on it has not changed: it is still a bad proposal. And I got to thinking that I wonder how many times you can call something temporary before it actually gets constant. It has to be said that we are about to be where the limit has been reached; that perhaps this is just the policy which the government thinks should be pursued and which their majority thinks should be pursued. And it is that these non-western immigrants, who do not really intend to enter the labour market, and who are in great contrast with the Ukrainians, who, on the contrary, want to work, must be rewarded with DKK 2 000. tax-free every month. There is absolutely no need for that. Many of them have been here for many years, some of them have been here for a few years, but they can easily enter the labour market. If you don't want to work, you don't have any arms, and you don't get cookies. Public services should only be for Danish citizens in this way, and then we have made a special law for Ukrainians that makes sense. But this is the only way we're gonna end this... is to fight hard. Then in this debate there has been talk of wage dumping and that people are not getting enough out of going to work. I fully agree with that. People don't get enough out of work. But if the Left really wanted people to have something more to do with going to work, i.e. if Enhedslisten and SF wanted to, they would, for example. support New Citizens' economic policy, which says that the first DKK 9,000 you earn every month is tax-free, and then you pay only 37 percent. in tax and no labour market contribution and no top tax. It would greatly make it more attractive to take a job. But that would not be the case because, after all, it is basically about getting more money into the system and not so much about helping those outside the labour market. New citizens cannot, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165444	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. And I don't see anyone from the Liberal Alliance, Free Greens or KD. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165504	Thank you very much to the rapporteurs for their comments. In these days, I'm negotiating the future cash assistance system with many parties. We would like more parties to offer themselves as well. Fortunately, the negotiations are progressing, but I do not want to hide the fact that this is a very difficult task either. Firstly, there are very many different wishes and demands in the negotiating room. Secondly, the system of cash benefits is in itself a very complex one. When you turn a cog in the large machinery, you get ten others to rotate in different directions. Thirdly, it takes a long time to work towards the right balance between the many different considerations we need to take into account. How do we ensure that there is a clear financial gain by getting up early in the morning and jumping on the bike to go to work instead of going home on public support? And how do we ensure at the same time that children whose parents are unemployed grow up under reasonable conditions and can be part of the community? It is precisely the children who have the government's focus. The children do not have to pay the price while we politicians try to agree with each other. Children in Denmark, on the other hand, should be able to go to leisure activities, participate in children's birthdays and benefit from the many opportunities offered by Danish society, including those whose mother and father receive cash benefits. That is why the government is proposing to extend the temporary family allowances for the year. In this way, we can continue to hold hands under the families who receive the lowest benefits in the cash benefits system so that they have the opportunity to give their children the same opportunities as their peers. I would like to thank you for today's debate and look forward to the further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165645	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165648	Thank you. In relation to this discussion that it should be worthwhile to work, I would really like to hear the Minister say some of the things that he believes help to make it worthwhile to work. I assume, of course, that this is actually about the amount that is being paid, but there are other things that make it worthwhile to be part of a working community. That's one thing. The second point is that we are now talking a lot about those who are on integration benefit or the Sho-service, and is it true that the average wage for the first, when it is that one on integration benefit comes into work, is over DKK 150.? Well, I just think it seems pretty crazy to have a bet equal to 40 kroner. in the hour, and then to talk about whether it pays to work or not. It's a long way from 40 kroner. per hour to more than 150 kroner. It's an hour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165742	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165743	First of all, I would like to say that I believe that Mrs Victoria Velasquez is right so far that having a job carries with it many, many more gains than, what can be said, only the difference in pay that is every single month. We in the government would like that to be clear and clear. But there are plenty of other benefits, including pension savings; including the rights it gives to be on the labour market; including the joy of having something meaningful to stand up to in the morning; including having colleagues you see and can talk to every eternal day. We believe that going to work is a core value in Danish society, and that must also be reflected in our performance system. In addition, the answer is to the question: Yes, it is true that we have calculated at least that the average for the first job you have when you go from the sho-yield to an ordinary full-time job, are those here, I think is 160 kr. We can certainly explain this in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165855	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165856	Thank you for that, and also thank you for drawing attention to the other things that are of benefit to having a job, because it reminded me that the figure I said was actually without the employer's pension, so it comes on top of that. Does the Minister not also believe that there is something in relation to the strength of society and that the strength of maintaining good wages and working conditions will be put in our society if social benefits are simply too low? There is research from the United States and a great many other places that proves that if cash benefits and cash benefits are reduced, it will also put itself in the payroll.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165932	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512165933	It is certainly well documented. But I could then challenge Mrs Victoria Velasquez with another aspect. If it is that the cash benefits in the benefit system are nominally too high and then in a Danish system it is equally impossible to respond and not attractive to insure itself against unemployment, then at least a foundation stone of our labour market model is removed, which makes employees insure themselves, and if they do not insure themselves, then there is a likelihood that they will not organise themselves either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170007	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170021	The debate is open and we shall give the floor to the Minister for Industry first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170050	Thank you very much and also thank you very much to the SF for making this proposal. I would like to start by saying that I fully agree that it is essential that we have effective enforcement of age limits in our retail trade. As an authority, we must ensure that the dealers of alcohol comply with the rules. That is why checks must be carried out and I recognise that there is also a need to strengthen controls on shops, kiosks and other shops. The problem of young people who have too easy access to alcohol and other goods that limit their age is not a new problem. In fact, this is a major problem and I fully agree with what is the aim of the resolution that we are dealing with here. For we must be able to ensure our youth a healthy and secure upbringing. In the motion for a resolution, the government will be required to submit a genuine bill by the end of January 2023, which will give the National Security Agency the power to apply what is called mystery-shoppers, so that young people under the age of 18 can be used to control the sale of, among other things. alcohol for minors in stores. Control by the Security Authority of the sale of alcohol and other goods which are a limitation on age is now carried out by anonymous control. The supervisor observes shops and restaurants to see if there are sales to people below the required age limits. I and the entire government agree that that control can be difficult to enforce with the current form of control. Basically, we agree that mystery jumpers can be a very relevant tool to ensure better control in this area. However, although this is an important agenda for the government, we cannot, in principle, support the proposal in its present form. After all, as the rapporteur for the proposers and the other rapporteurs in the Chamber know, in March 2022, in other words this year, we presented a proposal for a health reform which contains ambitious proposals, among others. on a higher age limit for the sale of alcohol in shops. It is also clear from our proposal that effective controls must be carried out and that enforcement of the rules must be strengthened. This is currently being negotiated in the Ministry of Health, and this proposal should be properly included in the current negotiations in line with the other proposals on the negotiating table. At the same time, I would also like to say that I do not think this proposal can be seen as isolated as this one is being tabled as a motion for a resolution. By getting it into a discussion of a health reform, it is not in isolation, but in a context with the other measures that are in this area, and in this way we can ensure that the proposal is considered in a comprehensive way. Everything else just will also make it more effective, and it will make it play against the framework in which it is to be included. So in this way we cannot support the proposal in its present form here in the Parliamentary Chamber, but we are naturally looking forward to continuing the discussion under the auspices of the health reform negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170420	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170424	Thank you. It is precisely in the context of the reform of health that we have again talked about age limits for the purchase of alcohol, for example, and also, for that matter, when young people start smoking, when young people start drinking, and indeed we already have a great many age limits. One of the things that struck me was that young people are 15 years of age, young people are 15 years of age, and at that time young people are not actually old enough to have to buy alcohol and tobacco. So I think that we can set up the age limit, but what is the point if it is that we cannot once and for all get the retail trade to respect the age limits that already apply for that matter also for medicine and gambling? So what is the government's proposal to actually get the retail trade to comply with the age limits that are already there and that there is a reason for that? Otherwise, it will not help if we sit over in the Ministry of Health and agree on new age limits in relation to a health reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170528	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170529	I am glad to be able to say at the outset that I think we have the same aim, that is, the same objective of what we want. After all, we want a nicotine-free generation; we want to enforce these age limits, and we are also pushing them in the proposal we have put forward because we believe that it creates a better framework for our youth and our health in our country. Then it is clear that age limits are not worth much if they are not enforced. The obligation is with the negotiators. However, as authorities, we must be able to monitor their compliance with their obligations. Various control measures can of course be discussed, and I know this is also being done in the context of the negotiations on a health reform, but I would just like to reiterate that basically we agree that mystery jumpers can well be a tool to be used. I am just saying that I think it should be taken in the negotiating room and not in the Assembly Chamber, and I would urge you to do so. But it could be an action. I could see that there were good bars in it. It must, of course, be done respectfully and honed in on the basis of the concerns that may be about it, but we need stronger control, and that is one of the tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170646	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170648	Thank you. I can also easily see the dilemmas that may be associated with using mystery jumpers. We have just recently seen a proposal from the Conservatives to use age-verified debit cards. This cannot be done because there are so many forms of payment. And all my colleagues in the Folketing agree that the age limits should be respected. The National Security Agency simply does not manage to catch that part of the retail trade, which therefore cannot figure out how to comply with the age limits. And soon we know that the big media are again out there showing how many places you can buy alcohol, even if you are only 15 years old. That's why I think it's important to have an idea of how we do it this time if it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170731	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170732	Yes, and what I'm saying is that I agree with that. And I agree that this might be a bid. But instead of taking it as an isolated discussion and saying that now Parliament in the Parliamentary Assembly is agreeing to make mystery shopping part of it, I think it should be part of the overall complex. But I can see for myself both the advantages, but also, as the rapporteur himself says, the dilemmas, and that must then be further bored out in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170801	Then it is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170803	I just need to get it right. Does this mean that the Minister does not deny that he is open to such state children's agents who go out and lure the young cashier into illegal activities?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170826	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170827	No, I think that is actually a very polemical way of referring to it, which I at least consider to be the initiative described in the motion for a resolution. If you need mysterieshoppers, which I actually think can be an effective tool here, it has to be done in a thoughtful way where it does not get the edge that the questioner is trying to give it here. It makes it harder to do so because it is a risk that someone will agree to the polemics, but I think that we can discuss a model that is fenced in, respectful and decent, but which at the same time raises the level of control that is there today, where we just have to see that it is easy, because that is why there is something that says that there must be stronger control, and this could well be done if you can include it properly. At any rate, I think that this is something that should be included in the discussions that are under way on health reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170923	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170925	If I understand the Minister correctly, we are talking about children that we have to send out, in other words 15-year-olds, because the limit for buying alcohol is 16 years old. So these are children we have to send out, and then, like the one sitting behind the box, who is often also a child, we have to lure them to buy alcohol. Is it not true that this is what this motion for a resolution is about and that this is what the Minister is not rejecting could be an option?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512170952	So, first of all, this is the case unless the motion for a resolution has described mystery jumpers in a completely different way than you normally see them on the basis that there will be an adult companionship. Secondly, I do not have the impression that it is a question of lure, that is to say, lure someone and see if you can fool someone, but it is surely an attempt to find out whether they are being sold to minors and thus to carry out controls in this area. In any case, I can only note that this is where I may also be missing a reply from the Left in this debate that control is not good enough as it is today. It's too easy as it is today. So the question is that we can do more than what we are doing today and hope that it works and it may also be a way, I will not reject that. But I'm just saying that it could also be that you should try to discuss it without prejudice. We can do this with adult companionship in a sensible way, so let's try to get it into the negotiations and talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171037	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171039	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for just clarifying. Because I also think it is important to emphasise that this is a system that is being used both in Norway and in Switzerland. After all, we regularly see studies where it is also used. After all, it is not about some young people behind the box who have to be punished. This is about kiosk owners or shop owners having to comply with the rules to which they are obliged in relation to the age limits. But I would like to ask the Minister something. I therefore agree with the intentions of the proposals that came from the government in relation to raising the age limit. The Minister then says that this should take place in the course of this debate and not in a separate course of debate here in connection with B proposals or other. I think that the challenge is a little, that we have been through it. Because in the context of the tobacco action plan, which was about preventing young people's smoking, we set aside exactly 5 million. kr. to strengthen the efforts of the Security Authority. Because it is not just about raising the age limit; it is also about enforcing that limit. Then the expectation was that negotiations would take place over at the Ministry of Business to ensure that the possibility of using mystery jumpers was created. This did not happen the last time, so what guarantee can the Minister give that we will not experience exactly the same thing where we sit and negotiate it in the context of the health reform, without it being implemented when it comes to the Ministry of Business?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171153	I think it should be seen in the sense that the health reform, which very much addresses these aspects of age limitation in certain product groups and where there are clear political ambitions in both the nicotine and alcohol sectors, is also an obvious place to get down to the control debate. Now I am not the negotiating leader in the specific course of the negotiations, but it would be nice to get down to the bottom of the political debate on it and not put it out elsewhere. Because you might as well find out in the room whether there is a majority for it or not. That is why I think that the framework for the health reform negotiations is where it is put into the right context and is not separated in another course of negotiations. However, there are many landing possibilities, including in a health reform debate, so I will keep that completely open to the Minister for Health. I would just like to say that it plays extremely well in terms of content, along with the main aims of our health reform initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171254	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171256	Well, the challenge last time was that there was an expectation that there was a majority in the negotiations on the tobacco prevention plan, but it has never been implemented in the Ministry of Industry. I just want to know if the government will then guarantee that, if it becomes part of the health reform, it will also ensure that it is something that will then be translated into the Ministry of Business so that we do not experience the same thing again. That's one of them. That is why the SF is tabling this motion for a resolution, because there has been an experience that what we actually thought had been agreed was not implemented. Not only does it have to be the government's fault, but it could be very good to have that assurance that there will be that connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171335	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171336	Well, I do not think I can say anything other than that, if there is a clear political majority saying that this should be implemented and that this should be translated into legislation in our area, then of course we will translate what the majority is agreed on. But we cannot guarantee a majority. I think that is also what the rapporteur points out a little bit, in other words, that there must be political agreement before such a thing begins to happen, and that must be revealed in the health reform negotiations. I am just saying that I think it should be lifted there, and I have also said why I can see it as a tool fenced in with all the dilemmas that, by the way, exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171414	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171417	Thank you. It is to the Minister's statement that in principle he saw nothing in the problem of mystery jumpers, so young people who are below the statutory age limit who are trying to see if they can make a purchase. Now I am not a super-expert on the rules for police agents, but I believe that there is a clear dividing line between what a police agent must do and what he must call for. In this case, of course, it is the minor who is so openly asked to try to commit an offence. I just cannot understand, as I know, there is broad agreement on the rules for police agents that, on the one hand, the government believes that when the police may use an informant, there must naturally be restrictions on the active involvement of a police officer on the basis of some perfectly natural principles of legal certainty, and, on the other hand, that the government supports a principle that we then send some young people out to try to commit illegal acts so that we can punish some.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171527	I say a lot... I don't know if I'm saying it clearly... I think I do myself... that there are, of course, some dilemmas about the use of mystery jumpers as well. There certainly was this when, at the time, we had to find out whether we could use police agents, where we could then set up some enclosures, in which case, when we think it is a good idea politically, we could do so in a respectful, proper way, which gives the control pressure we want and the control efficiency we want, without crossing any important boundaries with regard to both the young people who are to be accompanied by adults and, of course, with regard to those who are in the box and others. This is not a debate we have now, but I am simply saying that I will not deny that this could well be a tool. Just as police agents have now been able to do so, this is the example used by the rapporteur, why not find a suitable enclosure for the use of mysterieshoppers without, moreover, I think that the two categories of posts can be compared in a significant way, but now it has been brought up by the questioner himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171630	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171632	I believe that the use of police agents is being made in connection with some fairly violent crime and even there are some principles of legal certainty on which there is relatively broad agreement in the Folketing. The Minister says that the current control does not work well enough, and I fully recognise that we see too many examples of young people buying something they are not old enough for. Can the Minister tell us how many checks the Security Department carries out every year to check whether alcohol or tobacco is illegally sold to minors?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171708	It's just for the first time with police agents. It cannot be compared, but now it was the questioner himself who did so in order to demonstrate that it was very cross-border if you had to do mystery shopping in stores. It almost sounded like I was the one who drew the comparison. I don't see the number standing in relation to the control, but I can just see that the control we have is not good enough. Now there have been two rapporteurs from the Left, and it is fine that one does not like mystery shopping. In fact, I understand perfectly well that there are some dilemmas that you can be worried about. I actually understand that, but what's it gonna take? So what do you want? Because I assume that we have the same wish that these rules, which must be complied with by the shops, should also be effectively controlled. And we're gonna send the figure for that we can do through the committee... how many checks have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171802	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. Then we move on to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Malte Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512171818	Thank you very much for the floor. As a father of six children, I can say that this is based on experiences that we have close to life in the home where I live, so thank the proposers for bringing up this important issue, which children and young people's drinking habits are. We in the Socialist Group will begin by supporting the intentions of the resolution. It aims to address the alcohol culture of Danish young people. The Danish young people between 13 and 15 years of age are among those who get the most drunk when we compare with other European countries. On average, 15 young people a week are in contact with the hospital because of the harmful effects of alcohol. As a society, we have a responsibility for the lives and health of our children and young people, and that is why the government has also presented a proposal for health reform, in which we, among other things, are involved. will set the age limit for the sale of alcohol up to 18 years, because we must dare to do much more when it comes to changing the alcohol habits of young people. Age limits send a clear signal to both young people and their parents, but it must of course also be possible to enforce it in the hands of dealers and the authorities responsible for monitoring compliance with the rules. This applies regardless of the age limit for the purchase of alcohol and other products. Today, it is too easy for children and young people to buy alcohol. The proposers themselves refer to a study which clearly shows how easy 13-17-year-olds have by buying alcohol without being asked to show identification. I therefore very much agree with the authors of the motion that if we are to succeed in changing children and young people's drinking habits, efforts must be stepped up. However, the fact that we cannot support the resolution in its present form is precisely due to respect for the negotiations to which the Minister also referred, which are already taking place on the government's proposals for health reform. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party believe that the proposal should be brought up to that level. I am also sure that it will be, and has been, because we believe that the various interventions cannot be considered isolated from each other, but should be seen as a concerted effort for children and young people to be less drunk in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172041	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172044	Thank you. New studies show that young people start smoking even when they are 15 years old. We must not buy cigarettes until we are 18, so what does the Social Democrats really think about young people starting early and having access to cigarettes, and that we have not succeeded in preventing this sale, so that young people can still go in and buy tobacco themselves, even if they are far from old enough to do so? Is it satisfactory, or does the Social Democrats also think, that we should now take action against the current age limits, which are far from being observed, either in relation to tobacco or in relation to alcohol or for that matter medicine and gambling?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172132	It seems quite obvious with the proposal we made for a health reform that our ambition level is quite high and that we want a generation of nicotine-free young people. Whether or not what we played out was out of line was obvious, but there is at least a great frustration with me that current rules are not being complied with. It is a great frustration that it is not being checked and, as the Minister also mentioned, there is a need for measures which, I hope, will be put into the health negotiations that are currently taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172207	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172208	My question is as follows: does it make sense to make new agreements on new age limits when we are obviously not even able to comply with those we have? That is why I think it is appropriate to have this debate today, even before new negotiations, because it makes no sense to sit and make new agreements on new age limits, which we cannot enforce anyway, because we cannot agree to find the right tools to check whether the retail trade complies with these age limits, and that is just words.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172241	Fortunately, we fully agree with this, because it is also important to ensure that the control options that are available for compliance are included in this, and I am absolutely convinced that we will all bring the experience of what is not good enough today with one, so that we will hopefully have a proper agreement before the summer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172303	Then it is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172306	The reason I just got up is because I didn't quite figure out the social democratic attitude towards these people, now I choose to call them state children's agents, who are going to take such a peek and do something to see if you can lure others into illegal acts. So illegal acts that wouldn't happen if the state hadn't hired these people. Is that a good idea or a bad idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172328	I think the rapporteur chooses not to want to understand the Minister's reply from before or listen to it, because I think I heard the Minister say that there are some dilemmas in this and that we will try to get it in a way so that it is an opportunity in the future and so that everyone can see themselves in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172349	Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172350	I mean, there are some dilemmas, but what I have to understand is that you think it's okay to use children to lure others into illegal activities that wouldn't have taken place, just as you might be able to lure someone to drive too fast. Now we just got some male listeners, and there are also women who hire other women to go out and see if they can make their husbands cheat. Well, is that the way we're going to get out of society now? Or what exactly are we thinking? For the Left does not agree at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172419	No, I also think it seems that the rapporteur is trying to whip up a mood here. But the Minister said it quite clearly, in other words, that we will try to land something that assesses the dilemmas in this, in a way that will actually be an opportunity. But this is one of several measures that I hope will be considered in the negotiations that are taking place.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172441	Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172443	Thank you. In the health reform of the Social Democratic Party, it is said that one should have a 2010 vintage that must be smoke-free. They're not going to be 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 years old. At one point Tove will also be 60 years old, and then Tove, who is 60 years old, must not go into SuperBrugsen and buy a pack of cigarettes. Now this is a proposal for mysterieshoppers, and social democracy has nothing in principle against mysterieshoppers. Can we then have a 59-year-old person who goes to the stores and tests whether the 18-year-old shop assistant who says there sells a pack of cigarettes to 59-year-old Tove?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172528	I think it seems as if the rapporteur is not talking about it. It is an ambition for a smoke-free generation from 2010 onwards. I think it is a fantastic ambition if, from 2028 onwards, we see that 18-year-olds do not smoke. It is, however, a wonderful world, and the health perspectives that are in it are extremely distinguished.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172552	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172553	No, I am just pointing out how foolish the Social Democrat proposal is by saying how ridiculous it will be if we have 60-year-olds who cannot stand in SuperBrugsen and buy a pack of cigarettes. The inevitability of such a proposal is, in fact, all that I am pointing out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172609	Yeah, I get that. But the reality is that the 60-year-old does not need to smoke a cigarette at all when he has not learned it in his youth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172617	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172636	Thank you for the floor. With this proposal, the SF will allow the State to employ underage test buyers, so-called mysterieshoppers, who will monitor whether other minors sitting behind the box in a supermarket comply with age limits when selling alcohol. The SF will therefore hire state children's agents to undercover to lure other children into doing something they are not allowed to do. We are against this and we are against it for a great many reasons. Denmark is famous for creating a society where we trust each other. From a political point of view, we strive to make laws and rules so reasonable that the Danes can generally see the meaning of complying with the restrictions that exist. And we already have controls to follow up on whether the legislation is being complied with. In Denmark, for example, hashish is illegal, but we do not put police officers undercover to ask around the street whether there is anyone who can help to get some hashish, precisely because in that case the police provoke someone to commit an illegal act that otherwise would not have taken place. Similarly, we should not provoke the shy boy behind the box to sell a beer to the popular girl from class over. That would be to provoke the boy to do something he must not do, because the specific situation is created by the state. In the Left, we will not be involved in hiring children to lure other children into traps. We believe in trust and we believe in youth. Then I'd like to say hello to our liberal friends from LA. And when we talked about this motion for a resolution, we agreed that the proposal had actually been a mess for a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172815	Thank you very much. There is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172819	Thank you. I think it may be a little off about hashish, but if you have to compare it with something, we have dealt with a proposal before about how we could avoid kiosks selling large laughter gas cartridges to young people and that, even though it was forbidden to sell them, they still had them in the kiosks. There are a lot of newspapers and other media that have uncovered this precisely by using mystery-shoppers. In this way they could show us and others that the age limits that we have set ourselves in relation to, among others. We are not going to respect alcohol and tobacco. And I really don't think the big problem is behind the box in the supermarket; I actually think it's in the small kiosks. We've seen that when you've done the studies. I would just like to ask whether the Left actually believes that the age limits we have for the purchase of alcohol and tobacco and medicines and gambling are actually there to be respected. What is the Left's position on how to ensure that they are respected, because the Security Council obviously cannot do so with the rules we have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172921	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172922	The short answer is: yes, the legislation must be complied with. Then I could understand that the rapporteur would like a little clarification. We believe that this can be done by considering, for example, increasing the control that already exists, but not by mystery-shoppers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172939	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512172940	However, the control that already exists means that the Danish Security Authority finds that a customer has bought a product that the customer may not be old enough to buy. When the customer comes out of the store, the Danish Security Authority must ask how old the customer is and then the customer can respond if the customer wants to. And if the customer answers that he is too young to buy the product, then the Danish Security Authority must persuade the customer to go back to the box and explain that the customer has just bought a product that the customer was not old enough to buy. It is probably not difficult to guess that very few customers are found in this way. What will the Left do to ensure that these customers are actually caught in control?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173019	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173020	You can do a lot of things to catch these, but quite frankly, this is about some kind of human vision that I can't understand at all. By hiring mysterieshoppers, you will stand here and help create an illegal act that would not have taken place. Well, we find examples from the United States, which have, as it were, been lured into committing illegal acts. Is that the way you want to go from the SF? I just don't understand. I disagree with this proposal as I can possibly be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173055	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173058	It is, in fact, the debate between Mrs Kirsten Normann and the rapporteur that leads me to take the floor, insofar as I remember, one case was raised last year in relation to a shop owner or shopkeeper who had illegally sold tobacco or alcohol to a minor. I think the rapporteur probably agrees that this is probably not a true picture of how widespread this is. So if the rapporteur is now saying that there are a large number of other things that can be done instead, I would just like to have it clarified, because then it means that the Left is willing to allocate considerably more funds to the Security Board, when the Security Authority itself has to enforce the rules and when the process is as difficult as Mrs Kirsten Normann described before. But is that what the Left is proposing, that is to say, that additional funds should be set aside? We had the last 5 million set aside. kr. extra. Before, it was only 1 million. kr., which was devoted to the control. Is the amount that the Left wants to pump up so that the Security Authority gets more resources?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173200	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173201	We really want to be involved in discussing how to solve this problem. But this proposal doesn't hit the dial at all. You could do something with age verification; we could have a talk about the Security Authority having more money; we could talk about a lot of things. But this proposal doesn't hit the dial at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173224	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173225	Well, now it is a model that is being used both in Norway and in Switzerland, and it is a model that we can read about often being used by newspapers if they have to document it. Alcohol & Society does so regularly, and it is also a model that Alcohol & Society supports. So I do not quite understand the harsh rhetoric in relation to it, because it is not a question of anyone luring anyone or of some shop workers being punished. It's a kiosk or a store owner who's being punished for breaking the law. This is something that obviously works, and I can't understand why there has to be such a hard rhetoric about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173258	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173259	I do not know what the rapporteur was like when he was a young boy, but the rapporteur can imagine that he was sitting behind the box and that a young handsome girl came and wanted to buy some alcohol from a really nice girl. Perhaps the rapporteur sits there like a shy little boy and says: No, I can't. Then the girl says: Ah, come on. What does the rapporteur think the young boy/man do?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173327	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And the last thing you did wasn't follow the rules. That made room for the next rapporteur. This is Mrs Katrine Robsøe from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173348	Thank you. It is, of course, an interesting debate which has already, I think, been a little polemical in this Chamber, I think we can say. I can actually see some things in much of what is being said on both sides. I would like to say that I share the concern that the control we have today is not working. I also share the Minister's view that this should be included in the negotiations in the Ministry of Health. And one of the reasons why I think it is particularly appropriate there at this time is that I very much agree with this that it cannot be seen in isolation, also because I have some very serious concerns about the proposal. That is why it would certainly be important for me to have a look at what it is when the Minister talks about frameworks and what it should look like in reality. Then you'd have to look at what kind of framework we're talking about. I agree that these frameworks are being set up fairly sensibly, because I share some of the concerns that exist as to whether or not a situation is being cheated, i.e. whether illegal acts are being provoked. But let us also be honest, also in relation to the Left's controversy before. Probably none of us think that there is a difference, that is, if you sell very easily to the 16-year-old who has been sent in by some, then you may also sell to those who have not been sent in. I'm not dumber either. I don't think there's much difference between that. But that does not change the fact that an illegal act is being provoked. I think that's a big thing. It's not just something you just do. But I also recognise that there is a rather big problem here. So I really do think that this should be part of the overall debate you are having on health care. Now I am not the health rapporteur myself - so you will actually have a look at the overall package, in terms of how you will try to create a better culture of alcohol and tobacco. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173628	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173630	Thank you. Perhaps I should start by saying that this proposal was actually made in honour of the Radical Left. And that is because in some of the debates we have had on the reform of health, the Radical Left is very, very strong supporters of raising the age limit. And some of the presentations we have received along the way show that young people have alcohol onset at a much earlier stage than the age limits that apply today. Among other things: There are 11.3%. of young people aged 15 to 17 who smoke. I am surprised that Radicals, who are so much in favour of setting up age limits both here in the Folketing and in the regions, do not have a single estimate of what we are doing about young people being able to buy products they are not old enough for today. Because if we cannot even comply with the rules we have today, how on earth should we abide by the rules if we raise the age limit further? That is why I think this issue is important to clarify before we negotiate new age limits.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173736	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173737	So I think I just completely disagree with Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. I believe that the two things should be negotiated together. I think that the SF's rapporteur should do the same in the ongoing negotiations. So I think you should take that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173754	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173755	I am not sure that I am confident that the Radicals will help to find the solution to this if we cannot agree to it before. And I am just referring to a tobacco agreement that we have jointly drawn up, in which it was precisely the Radicals who could have been involved in the majority in favour of this solution being the solution in fact to control all the consumption of mysterieshoppers and to ensure that young people who are not old enough to buy tobacco cannot get to it either. And the same goes for alcohol, gambling and medicine, which is also a major problem. So what are the radicals going to propose that we do so that we respect the age limits?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173830	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173831	Well, I just need to understand this. So the SF does not trust to negotiate with Radicals on health? Am I supposed to understand that you think we don't want to be involved in anything? I think that is actually quite violent. I do not think that is acceptable in any way either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173854	The next question is Mr. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512173858	Thank you. It's just to confirm what's been going on. Is it true that we had the discussions on the tobacco prevention plan, and that there was also an expectation, I think, that this was something that was agreed and that would then have to be resolved in the Ministry of Business? It was not, and there may be many reasons for that, and that is one of the reasons why. That is why we are standing here today. But what I would like to ask the rapporteur is: does Radicals have an entirely fundamental opposition to this, or is it the case that we have some experience from Norway, which makes it possible for us to deal with some of the dilemmas raised by the rapporteur, i.e. that this, for example, is the case. are minors? But if we can ensure adequate protection and we can ensure that it is done on regulated terms and conditions of employment and that there is a clearly described model of how to do so, are radicals willing to look at that solution? Because there is no doubt that when we allocated funds to the Security Council last time, it was among other things. on the assumption that the 5 million will be paid out. kr., we then spent, we could get much more out of, if you could use a model with mystery jumpers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174002	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174003	I think, in fact, that I said very clearly in my speech that we would like to look at how we can do something better, but there are some rather big issues. I expect the Minister for Health, when you sit and negotiate, to be able to give clear answers as regards the framework that is being set here and which the Minister for Business is talking about. You have to come up with a model that shows how this can be done properly. And then we look at what we do with everything else that is being brought up in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174038	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174039	But when I ask, it's because we actually did it last time. In the course of the negotiations, there was a representative from the Ministry of Industry who described how to make this model, and there was really an expectation that we could solve it. Now we should not drill in the past, that is more so in relation to what we can do in the future, and that is why I am asking the rapporteur about it with a described model, where we ensure the safety of young people, by describing exactly the model that can be used. I am not going to give it to you here, but if it is there, is there no opposition in principle from the Radical Left to using such a model?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174114	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174115	Well, I just can't answer any more precisely, because I haven't seen those papers. I can only say, while the SF's rapporteur would like to interrupt from his chair, that I have certainly not seen those frames, but we have to look at them when they are put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174135	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And I would ask you not to interrupt from the Chamber. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174153	Thank you for that, President. First of all, I would like to thank the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. I think it is right that we should have this debate, because this is a recurring question: how do we ensure that we also enforce the age limits for the purchase of medicines, tobacco and alcohol? It is absolutely true that we can raise age limits all the times we want, but that it will not do much if there are insufficient resources available for enforcement. That is also why, in connection with the latest tobacco action plan, we were allocated 5 million. kr. that could strengthen the security authority's ability to control. In fact, I believe that the one million kroner set aside by previous governments to carry out those tasks meant that there was one employee in Esbjerg who was to supervise all the country's shops and groceries. It is clear that this means that there will be rather limited controls, not to say non-existent controls. In addition to monitoring, paperwork must then be done afterwards. So it made that virtually no cases were brought. We then had the 5 million set aside. kr., but it is clear that the expectation was that if we were given the opportunity to introduce mystery jumpers, we could also ensure that we gained considerably more effect out of the 5 million. kr. Because this will precisely ensure a model in which the age limit could be enforced considerably more effectively. Before some people start talking about children's agents and everything else, I would like to say that it is a well-tested model that a young person goes into the store and makes a purchase and then goes out, and then there is an adult who can then go in and issue a fine to the shopkeeper or shopkeeper. It is not going to hit the individual employee who is in the store; it is clearly the shopkeeper's responsibility. It is absolutely true, as Mrs Kirsten Normann described earlier, that it is happening today in such a way that outside the store there must be an employee from the Danish Security Agency and keep an eye on who goes in and who comes out and then confront him and then go into the store. So it will just make that task considerably easier, and if we know from the examples and experiences we have from both Norway and Switzerland that we can use that model, then I think it is foolish that we do not use it. It is also a well-known instrument to use for the newspapers when examining it, and Alcohol & Society uses it. So I think it is obvious that we should ensure that we can also do so under the auspices of the state, thereby also ensuring the safety of the children and young people who will have to carry out the task. So I think it is very good that the SF has put forward the proposal here and we will also support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174455	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174459	Thank you. I think, sir. Peder Hvelplund was a bit harsh on the Radicals regarding the course of the tobacco negotiations. After all, I was in the negotiating room when we were negotiating tobacco I was not part of the final agreement, but I was at the meetings that were there and one of the reasons why you couldn't get through with mystery-shoppers was that it was a tobacco agreement in which the Left and the Conservatives were involved, and they wouldn't be part of it. So you couldn't get it into this tobacco deal. It is true, then, that one had a hope that one could draw it over to the Ministry of Industry, where one did not have this agreement that the Left and the Conservatives were in, and then one would have needed radicals, because then one would have had a majority to do so. But it has nothing to do with tobacco, because I remember that the Left and Conservatives also put their heels in when we were sitting at the meetings. Hey, you can't refer to the meetings, but I think they put their heels in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174547	Thank you. That is a partly correct description of the course of negotiations, because it was an element of those negotiations. There were also discussions, including: with the parties behind the paper of understanding, that is, the parliamentary basis of the government, that this was precisely something that could then be lifted over to the Ministry of Industry, because it would then be possible to ensure that the 5 million. kr., which was used to strengthen the National Security Agency, could also have greater effect. That is why the SF has tabled this motion for a resolution. It is not something that has come out of the blue, and that is just what I would like to acknowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174622	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174624	Thank you. Then we must also recognise that it is not only partly correct that it is quite correct that that was the problem. Because if the Left and Conservatives had agreed to introduce mystery jumpers, it would have become part of the tobacco action plan that was being made there. It was quite clear, because it was brought up and I fully acknowledge that it was brought up but there were parties, including my own, who set their feet and said: we will not do that. After all, 4 times 5 million DKK were allocated, i.e. 20 million in total. kr., off to it. Does Enhedslisten have any knowledge of how those funds have been used?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174656-2	I would like to confirm the course of the negotiations, and that is what I am saying. It was just because it was part of that tobacco deal that I thought that was it, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen said in the first place that it wasn't. But that was part of the negotiations. No, I haven't received any de-reporting on the impact of the 5 million. kr., we transferred to the National Security Agency, by the way. I know it was the case that one case had previously been brought before the courts based on the work of the Security Council, but I do not know the current figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174729	Thank you. The next brief remark goes to Mrs Anne Honoré Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174733	This might be a mysterious question, but it's because we were mentioned just now. I thought it was a huge praise that we were told that these mysterieshoppers are against the Left, and that is quite correct: so are we. In fact, we don't like it when the state wants to go into using agents, and especially child agents, to get law-abiding citizens to do something illegal. I'm just very puzzled that a sometimes very good trial like Enhedslisten thinks it's a damn good idea. I find that hard to understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174817	Thank you. Damn it isn't a word we usually use. But here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174819	Thank you. There's hardly anything better than praise. It should almost be self - esteemed, and I can hear that the Left is also in possession of being able to pour out on itself. It is clear that, of course, there are always legal certainty political dilemmas in relation to this, but we do have experience of how to do it, for example. from Norway and Switzerland. We have the opportunity to ensure that the children and young people who will be employed for it are adequately protected, and that is also what we had confirmed when we had representatives from the Ministry of Business and Industry during the tobacco negotiations about how to make this model. So that part can easily be resolved, including in order to respect those principles, and therefore I am a little surprised that the Left is not of the opinion that we should do more to ensure that that age limit is also enforced.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174919	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174921	I am glad that the rapporteur can see that there are some legal dilemmas in this, namely the lure of children to be out being such an agent for the state, and that there are some on the other side of the box who are often actually children. And it may well be that it is not the person who is just being punished, but if the employer gets a huge fine, do you not think that the employer gets a little tired of his employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174950	Thank you, and I will address the direct charge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512174953	Thank you. No, I'm not worried about that. Now I can inform the rapporteur that I am a delivery son and therefore, even in my early youth, the rapporteur now asked about the previous case as a young worker who has been sitting behind the box as an employee of my father, who was a handler, and I am quite convinced that if I had not complied with the rules that were, my father would have been fined for it, and I think that would have been quite reasonable, by the way, and it was completely ignorant of the way in which those who came in to buy cigarettes looked or behaved.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512175026	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512175036	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. Indeed, children are not meant to be able to buy alcohol or cigarettes or other products reserved for adults. However, we are not supposed to place one burden on the economy after another either. Nevertheless, it was in fact the case that the retail trade would like to see an electronic age verification introduced, as we proposed here in the Parliamentary Chamber. It wasn't a model that could solve everything. We could have taken a step. You could just say that this proposal doesn't solve everything either. On the other hand, it is also very difficult, and from this we do not really like mystery shopping very much. I don't think that's a secret. We do not like mystery shopping of any kind, even in relation to children you can say: not at all when it comes to children. That is why we are also voting against the resolution and, at the same time, suggesting that all ideas and inputs should come into play in the ongoing negotiations on health reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512175135	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512175155	The proposal is to put underage mysterieshoppers to try to buy alcohol in order to catch the shops that sell alcohol to minors, and we are keen supporters of the fact that controls must, of course, be in order. In Denmark, we have, as we have also mentioned, the Danish Security Agency to monitor whether the stores sell alcohol to young people under the age limit, and we in the Danish People's Party are quite happy about that. Furthermore, we, like Conservatives, place our trust in the negotiations that are under way in this area, and we cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512175231	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512175246	Thank you. After all, in the 2020 Finance Act, 20 million were set aside. kr. to strengthen control. One of the things that I think we do too little of in the Folketing is to follow up on whether those things have worked. So let's see if what the government and its support parties have set aside has worked. Now you want to insert mystery jumpers. It doesn't matter if there's something good in that glass, because then I'd like one when we're done, but if it's just water, it's gonna be too fucking boring. Fourth Vice-President No such language is used). Well, I'm not the one who's drinking. Fourth Vice-President Well, you can't fucking say that. Well, I'm sorry, I can't fucking say that; I'm sorry, President. But we have this situation with the idea that mysterieshoppers will now be installed, and I cannot help thinking that if these mysterieshoppers are adopted and at the same time we adopt the government's proposal for a smoke-free vintage 2010, we have 60-year-old Tove, whom it will at some point be forbidden to go in and buy a cigarette in Dagli'Brugsen. I simply cannot imagine what we are not doing in here on the part of the Folketing! We need to check that 60-year-old Tove doesn't buy cigarettes. We send 59-year-old Birte out on an undercover mission and to go into the local use in Nørre Snede to check if 59-year-old Birte can buy a pack of cigarettes, and if she can, the store will be fined 25,000 DKK under the new rules. to sell a pack of cigarettes to 59-year-old Birte. In this way, we have combined a bad proposal from the SF with a bad proposal from the Social Democratic Party, and we have made Tove in 60 years or 59-year-old Birte a criminal person. That's not what we're supposed to be sitting in here for. We have other things to spend our time on. So we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512175457	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. And now it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512175507	Thank you. And thank you for the debate, although it will also be a little heated. But I also think that this is an important issue that we are discussing here. I would like to start with an admission: I do not like mystery jumpers either. And in connection with Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen's proposal that we can just set the age limit even more so that it is no longer children we have to hire, but so that we can just hire adults, I would say that we can employ shop directives that were actually a reality when I was a child. At that time, they had such things in Bilka and all sorts of other places to ensure that people complied with the rules inside the store. Well, that's not what this proposal is about either. I do not really like the idea that we may have to use such methods either, but I have to say that it is not, after all, because it has been teeming with good alternatives among the rapporteurs today. And what I really think is the huge dilemma right now is that everyone is talking about age limits being important if we want to protect our children from starting to smoke early. I think that all parents are preoccupied that children should not smoke but nevertheless the debut age for young people starting to smoke is 16 years. That's what all statistics say. And that means that young people have access to tobacco, even if they are not even old enough to buy tobacco. The same could be true with regard to medicine. The same applies to gambling and is one of the challenges in terms of developing young gamblers, who will also be a problem we will have to deal with afterwards. I think that, precisely because I am also a health rapporteur and we have the debate right now on a health reform, it makes sense that, like saying that if new age limits can help prevent young people from smoking, that young people buy medicines, that young people buy alcohol at an early stage, then we must also be able to respect those age limits because otherwise all our good visions of young people's health will be just words. I would like to thank the Minister for being approachable to thinking in mysterieshoppers. We have had the debate before, and I myself have been sitting with the Minister for Business after we made the tobacco action plan, because we now had to find out how we could actually check that the shops complied with the rules that were in force. We have also done so in relation to nitrous oxide cartridges, which have also been a challenge, because kiosks have sold large amounts of nitrous oxide to young people at great risk to traffic and the health of young people. I think that we need an answer: a response to how we proceed to ensure that the retail trade plays a part when it comes to young people's health. That is why we have tabled this proposal. And although the Minister, the Radicals and others point out that we have to deal with this in some health negotiations, and that is where we manage to do it ourselves too, I have to say that when both the government and the Radicals think it is an important issue in terms of health reform, we owe it to ourselves to answer whether we will then be able to come up with a solution in which we can actually enforce the age limits. I do not feel convinced of that, and that is what I was trying to say to the Radicals. I have heard the health rapporteur speak warmly for an age limit, and we have had the debate in connection with a health debate in the past, where we also had this talk about how we then enforce these rules. If we cannot enforce the rules, it does not matter to propose new age limits. I am, in fact, very keen that we should be able to find other methods. And I am very sensitive to the fact that there must be other ways of enforcing the rules. I just don't have the imagination to think of other ways. I have not seen any other way of solving the problem, either when the Security Council has had to come up with anything or when my colleagues have had to answer the questions during the course of the discussion of this proposal. That is why I also have doubts as to the usefulness of making new agreements on new age limits, i.e. if it is the case that we cannot subsequently agree on how the rules are to be enforced. So it was my business with the proposal today. I think it makes sense to discuss it further in committee and also to try to see whether there could be other ways of doing it; then I am sensitive to it. And if there is not, then it is the case that we have to note that there is no majority in favour of finding solutions for enforcing age limits for the purchase of alcohol, tobacco, medicines, gambling or other illegal drugs by young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180017	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180020	Thank you. One of my problems with this resolution is that it is based on studies and data from 2017 to 2020 and draws conclusions from it. However, the tobacco action plan that we made was made in the autumn and was completed in December 2020. In other words, the measures contained in the tobacco action plan really do not work yet and that is what I have heard. And then you want to introduce something that is based on some figures before new tightenings came. After all, there were two central austerity measures; in fact, there have been three austerity measures • the 20 million. kr. in extra controls, and then a tightening-up was made on fines and also on the possibility of losing the right to sell tobacco. After all, we have not had any evaluations of these matters yet, in relation to the effect they have had. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is problematic when we really do not know whether the things we have
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180121	However, the proposal is based on precisely questions which relate to it, that the Security Authority was precisely responsible for enforcing the rules we made last time, among other things. with the tobacco action plan. And I have also listened to the fact that they once managed to take a store in selling a product that the young person in question was not old enough to buy. This is particularly regrettable when, in the context of the discussions on a new health reform, we hear that the State Institute for Public Health is claiming that the age at which young people buy tobacco and, for that matter, alcohol is 16 years old. When you are 16, you are not old enough to buy tobacco, but nevertheless 11.3 percent. of 16-year-old smokers. Then we have a security problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180215	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180216	Thank you. But then I think we should have some data on it during committee processing and look at how the Security Agency spent these 5 million. kr. annual. I mean, how many inspections have they had? How many fines have been sent out? There was also a sharpening of the fine from fines of DKK 10,000, DKK 20.00. and 40,000 kroner. to now fines from 25,000 kroner. $40,000. So, in this agreement, have we only tightened up some penalties and made it more expensive without it having any effect? I remember speaking in favour of them being perhaps somewhat higher, so they actually had a deterrent effect. That is something you could do about it, so there was better control. But if the SF wants to be a part of this, let us examine what is really up and down in committee, because we do not know that right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180257	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180258	Thank you. So, the questioner must ask all the questions he wants, but some of these considerations come precisely from the discussions on health reform and from figures and information that we have received in the course of the discussions on, for example, health reform. the consumption of alcohol and tobacco by young people, which is a theme of the reform of health. And I have listened there to the fact that a great many parties are very concerned about the fact that we have to raise the borders, and my message here is that it then presupposes that we can at least keep to the control of the borders that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180334	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180356	The debate is open. First we give the floor to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Orla Sea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180402	Thank you for that, President. L 178 is popularly said to be about the faster postponement of tenants due to unsafe crime. Danish society owes a great deal of credit to the general housing sector for including urban development, future-proof housing, interaction with public authorities and targeted work to ensure well-being in the residential areas. Knowing that we have a part of the housing sector that can provide citizens with a home quickly and effectively if their life situation has suddenly changed, both for the individual and for society provides security in everyday life. Security is also the key word for the idea behind L 178 where it is proposed to translate that part of the government's security initiative of October 2020, which will ensure that housing companies across the country are able to ensure a faster postponement of tenants who have committed unsafe crime. In other words, the aim of the proposal is to put an end to insecurity-building and anti-social behaviour in troubled general housing areas. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that we are politically obliged to ensure the security of the general housing areas where residents sometimes experience unsafe behaviour and crime from other residents in the area. We will not accept and should not accept that a few residents are tyrannicalising entire residential areas with antisocial behaviour and unsafe crime. Fourth Vice-President Lars Boje Mathiesen, can I ask you to keep your voice down? Here you go. I'm sorry). It's okay. That is why we are now proposing that we should be able to cancel the tenants' leases much more quickly than is the case today, because several housing companies are experiencing long processing times in cases of deferment of criminal tenants. The draft law proposes, among other things: In concrete terms, the abolition of leases, when a resident has received an unconditional prison sentence for insecure crime in the vicinity, can happen, despite the fact that the sentence is not final, provided that it does not conflict with our international obligations. In addition, it is proposed that a landlord should be able to request the court to refer the case to the court for the purpose of putting the criminal tenant concerned out of his lease in the course of criminal proceedings before a judgment has been given. As a tenant, you have both rights and duties. One is responsible for ensuring that oneself and those who have access to one's accommodation comply with the rules of the non-profit housing area in which one lives. If you are unable or unwilling to meet those obligations, it is quite reasonable that you should get out of your lease, for the good of the community. It cannot be said that 1 in 100 people has to make their lives miserable for the rest, who want a good and secure residential area. The Social Democratic Party naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180740	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180746	I had some doubts as to whether I should wait and ask the new Minister for Home Affairs and Housing about this question or whether I should ask the new Housing Rapporteur. But welcome to both of you. Now it says in the submission of this bill that it has been a long time in the process, because it seems to be a little complicated. And then I'm a little puzzled that it says here that this tightening up just like it has to be assessed. You're going to make this tightening, and it's not gonna work anyway, if it's the case that this is against Denmark's international obligations. If you have been making a legislative proposal and it has taken a few years to get it right, why has it not been possible to clarify whether this is such a discriminatory matter that it cannot be implemented? Well, I'm a little puzzled. And then I think it's a little unclear how many people this is really about, that is, since you want to make this tightening up of something that can be done in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180846	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180847	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for the congratulations. I could have hoped that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen wanted to put the question to the new Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. But I just have to say that what we are dealing with here is complex, and we must recognise that is complex. On the other hand, it is also important that we send a signal to the 9,999 tenants who are plagued by a single person who does not respect the fact that there are rules for the community that make everyone in the community feel safe. And that signal seems to us to be sensible to be sent. Then it is true that there is a balance between whether there are places where we come into conflict with international conventions, and we should not, of course, do so, but we venture the fur and say that this is important in order to create the security and to meet the many wishes of the general housing sector, to give a commitment that this should go something faster than what many tenants are experiencing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180953	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512180955	Perhaps this was not quite fair with the new housing rapporteur. But now the new Minister for Home Affairs and Housing will have 20 minutes to prepare to answer the same question in a moment. So I thought it was okay anyway. Thank you. Orla Have You're welcome).
ParlaMint-DK_20220512181007	Thank you to the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Halime Oguz of the SF. We've changed a little. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512181020	Thank you, President, and thank you for the floor. Basically, the SF agrees that a concern for the security of law-abiding tenants should be given priority over the criminals who house in residential areas with violence, threats and insecurity-building behaviour. For it is of course important that all citizens can send their children safely to the playground in their residential area without fear of madness, mass battles or other crime. We are therefore very much in agreement with the government's proposals because the proposal seeks to resolve some very real problems which BL has also addressed and are still calling for solutions to. The only problem is that the proposal here is an attempt to patch up a fundamental problem in the judiciary, namely the long duration of proceedings by compromising on fundamental principles of judgment before the hammer falls. In this way, the proposal for gaps in the Danish legal system, which should be fixed instead of patching up solutions that undermine the basic legal position of the country's tenants. The criminals who, through internal confrontation, pester the everyday lives of ordinary families and elderly people, as we have seen in, for example, children's families. Motalavej, is probably quite satisfied with the long processing times. Here in the Folketing, it should be a problem we tried to solve. In addition, we do not think that the draft law provides a thorough enough justification for lifting a position on the final postponement from the right of residence to the right of custody. It is mentioned in particular in view of the fact that, unlike housing law, the right of custody does not consist of specialist judges, as in housing law. This may weaken the ability of the court to carry out the complex proportionality assessments, which can often be the basis for decisions in residential law. Then SF is not satisfied that the right to compensation and the right to re-housing have not been extended for persons who are wrongly expelled, but that it is instead the same as for a normal re-housing. Finally, if we want to take such a drastic step, we must at least ensure an extended compensation and guarantee for a dwelling at the same price as in the past, i.e. if we commit a crime of justice and postpone a tenant who will later have his sentence overturned. Because then you're innocent. Summing up, SF therefore calls for the following changes to the bill: 1) that cases remain in the housing law; 2) that the right to compensation and resettlement be extended so that those who have been thrown out of their homes without justification must have a right to be offered accommodation for the same rent; and 3) that the legal situation is fundamentally improved in the Danish judicial system so that these cases can be dealt with more quickly. Then there is one final comment: I think this proposal represents a gigantic dilemma. Because I think that the problem that BL wants to solve is quite real, and that is why I regret that the proposal is not more well thought out than it is. I hope that during the treatment the government will respond to SF's requests for correction. Otherwise, I can see nothing but that the SF ends up voting against. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512181350	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Now we go back to the ordinary winding-up of the series of speakers. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512181416	Thank you, President. I'm a reserve officer today for Preben Bang Henriksen. This is not my normal area. I would just like to warn you that, in the event of questions being asked to me. But I'll try to answer as well as possible. Today, the Folketing is considering a proposal to ensure that tenants who are sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for insecure crime in the vicinity can have their leases abolished and thrown out. The bill will apply regardless of whether the verdict has been appealed. With the waiting times that we are unfortunately operating in the national courts today, the proposal is certainly justified. We have so much to take into account the proper tenants, neighbors and others in properties that should not be insecure while the appeal is pending. But what if the convicted person is acquitted in the court of law? Then the postponement has been unjustified and the tenant must, of course, be placed as far as possible as before. This is done in the bill by specifying that the tenant must be placed as far as possible as before the unjustified cancellation. A new tenant may have been moved into the court proceedings and he should not, of course, be thrown out. Repair must therefore be done by finding a similar apartment in the same property. At the same time, the tenant must be compensated for the loss caused by the moving company. Summa summarum is a sensible proposal that is fully in line with the views of the Left on respect for decent tenants. However, we do not understand why the proposal should only apply in the general sector. The situation may be exactly the same for private rentals. That is why the Left will be tabling amendments, just as we tabled a motion for a resolution in October 2020 precisely on the accelerated postponement of criminal tenants in both general and private housing. It was a proposal that the government could not support at that time. Now, two years later, there is something similar to the Left's proposal. In practical terms, following the judgment in criminal proceedings, the court of the place of enforcement shall deal with the matter of suspension and suspension. In the view of the Left, it would have been more effective to have the court dealing with the criminal proceedings dealt with at the same time with the case of termination. In criminal proceedings, for example, a victim's claim for compensation is also dealt with, so this subject could, with sense, also be dealt with in the criminal proceedings of the court which already knows the circumstances of the case and has the defendant in front of it. But it wasn't supposed to be like that. As I said, the Left can support the proposal, although we are tabling an amendment which also includes the private housing sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512181735	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susan Kronborg from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512181746	Thank you very much, President. The bill translates the part of the government's initiative "Security for all Danes" presented on 8 October 2020, which provides for a faster postponement of criminals in general rental homes. As the rules now stand, a lease can only be terminated and suspended under Article 90 (2) of the General Rental Act. No. 1 10 when the sentence is final. This bill then means that you want to postpone people at an earlier time, namely when the sentence is not final, but may have been brought before ordinary courts. In this context, I would like to mention the fact that, in an order of 29 November 2019, the draft law seeks to take account of the fact that Østre Landsret has found that it was questionable to promote a case of cancellation of leases due to unsafe crime. In the circumstances of the case, the Land Court considered that the proportionality assessment envisaged could not be carried out in the course of the evidence carried out in the course of an immediate procedure. In other words, it has led the Radical Left to take the view that we do not support the bill, as the rules already discriminate against tenants in general housing, since, unlike other perpetrators, these people risk extra punishment for a given crime, and discrimination is supported by this bill, where the sentence no longer has to be final. Nor does it seem appropriate for us in the Radical Left to have the right to exercise such fundamental assessments as a concrete proportionality assessment under Article 8 on the right to respect for the home in the European Convention on Human Rights. This bill extends the possibility of proof by the court of guarantee, and this is an attempt to counter the subjugation of the Østre Landsret ruling, which I mentioned. There is, however, a new problem in that, at the same time, the draft law means that a balance of proportionality must now be made which is even more difficult than the one before, because, as I said, the proportionality assessment will be about a sentence that is not final. So the Radical Left would like to say here that when there is a problem with processing times for housing law cases, it would be more obvious to do something about the processing times instead of bothering the court. So thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512182026	Thank you very much to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512182038	I do not know whether one can imagine that in a legal society it could be the case that the speeding tickets, which of course are given to those who drive too fast by car, are higher for those who are residents of a general home, or if one can imagine a driver in a red car who got a speeding ticket and those who sat in the back seat and who were related to the person sitting in the front seat, should also be fined. I guess you can't. But here we are dealing with legislation which is a little parallel to it and which is discriminatory. I have such a little doubt as to why it has really been necessary to make this bill, because it is already possible in the general sector to put tenants out if there is someone in the household who has an insecure behavior. Then it's a little funny to see such a bill here, which has a long history; the government came up with some kind of play in October 2020. And we are dealing with a substance that is so complex that it concerns several legislations and contains complex issues to which it has taken time to find appropriate and sustainable solutions. And because there is a political desire in the government for it to be promoted, we in the Danish Parliament have to deal with these complex things in less than four weeks before we go on summer holidays. These are the working conditions we have in the Danish Parliament that are not new. But it's kind of funny to read this. I think that this legislation discriminates against residents of general housing. I think the Left is quite right in saying that it is strange that a bill should be tabled which does not apply to others. There could also be some who lived in an owner's residence who had insecurity-building behavior. There's probably something about the housing being inviolable and so on. However, this could be legislation which would also apply to those who live in a rental house, which is not a general dwelling. However, this is a special legislation which discriminates against residents of general construction. I think it is very crazy that we have legislation that is not only targeted at those who might do something criminal, but which, as such, also leads to far-reaching reprisals for the rest of the household. This is what may be the case, in other words in the case of a lease where it may be a parent who has the lease and where the child, who is probably in most of these cases a son, commits some crime, which then means that the whole family is terminated by that lease. As far as legal certainty is concerned, I think it goes far beyond what it should be in a community governed by the rule of law. But I'm not a lawyer. I just have my views on what is right and fair. So I think it's going too far. I would really like to know how many cases you like to have, since the government thinks you should make such a further tightening up of the legislation. It would be nice to know whether there have been three or seven cases, or how much we are talking about here, since it is considered necessary to tighten up existing legislation. SF raised something about these cases where you have to enter and assess the termination of tenants and where the question is whether it should take place in the courthouse, and it says in one of the hearings that it would be more appropriate if it were in the residential court. I would really like to see that clarified in the committee procedure, i.e. whether it is the right place to deal with matters. And then I think it is remarkable that we have a case here in which it may end up that the whole parliamentary basis does not support the legislative proposal. It was good to hear that the Radicals are opposed. Unless there are any amendments, the SF is also opposed, and I can say that the Enhedslisten is also opposed to this discriminatory bill. It's funny to read that this is the kind of thing that needs to be assessed in terms of whether it is something that is contrary to Denmark's international obligations. I can then understand from the start of the debate that it is because each case has to be considered and assessed in terms of its proportionality. You could say it's a plus that at least that's the way it is. But this is something that helps create insecurity for some residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512182540	Thank you very much to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512182552	Thank you for the floor. I would like to start by saying that I am a substitute for our rapporteur, who unfortunately cannot be here today. Most of us will probably pay for having a neighbor with a crime register where serious insecurity-building crime is involved. It is therefore very, very serious offenses that are involved. It can give you a less peaceful, safe and quiet sleep that you need. In fact, I know, because I have lived next to a criminal who sold drugs and had a leeway of more or less scary people both day and night. It was very difficult to deal with, for the man owned the apartment. Therefore, it is of course relevant to consider whether this should only apply to one form of housing. But what we can and should do here is to do something for the million people, Danes, who live in general housing. There are, unfortunately, also some challenges here in evicting a criminal neighbour, even though serious insecurity-building crime has been committed. It is simply not okay, and that is why we want to support helping housing associations to make it easier to cancel tenants, that is to say the tenants who have committed this kind of crime, because it must be safe and good to live in Denmark, wherever you live.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512182712	Thank you very much to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512182724	Thank you, President. In the Danish People's Party we are quite enthusiastic about the bill • we fully support it. It may of course also be because I live in an area where there have been and are still away a lot of insecure people, namely in Vollsmose, and it has just been a hassle to get those people out, even if you can get people out today but it just takes so long. That's what the bill's gonna do. Yes, there is a political dilemma of legal certainty, but that is something that can be taken into account in seeking compensation and in obtaining a place for compensation if it turns out that the second or third body exonerates the sentenced person. We think it is a good thing that we can set them off even after the first sentence. We also think it is good that they can already be thrown into the courthouse after the first sentence, and we also think it is good that the termination of the lease is done in the courthouse. That is a good thing, and it is something that the housing sector has wanted. We think it's excellent. On the other hand, we have wondered a little bit about the fact that private landlords are not included in the bill; that is why we are going to support the amendments tabled by the Left. We think it is excellent what the Left has proposed. We also discussed this at our group meeting. Something else we've been wondering about and there we're going to table an amendment that I hope the Left and the Government will support is why it's only crime committed within 1 km of the home that triggers this. I hope, of course, that the Minister will listen. I simply do not understand why it is only crime that has been committed within a mile of home that triggers these sanctions. There we would like it to be crime in general that would make sense. Then I can welcome the fact that this is the first time that I have seen the use of Article 8 (1) of the European Convention on Human Rights. 2 to support the bill. I haven't seen this before. Usually it's always a piece. 1, you refer to, because it is such a gate that goes down, and then you can't do anything. But pieces... 2 is a fantastic piece because it refers to the fact that there are some things that are important for the sake of democracy, for the sake of legal awareness, for the sake of society. And that's exactly what this bill is all about: protecting people who are going to live with criminals and crooks. And for the sake of the sense of justice, for the sake of the rule of the people, we have to have tools so that we can strike down such people. So we support what has just been summarized: we will be supporting the amendment tabled by the Left that we will also include private landlords; we will be tabling an amendment saying that it is not only crime committed 1 km from the home but also crime committed further away in general. And then we welcome Article 8 (1). 2, which I think has been used for the first time. We in the Danish People's Party have been pointing out for years that there are plenty of opportunities within the European Convention on Human Rights, especially if you look at Article 8 (1). 2. So all in all, support for the bill; we will be asking some questions and tabling an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512183117	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512183125	This is another symptom suggestion. Instead of grabbing the root of the nettle and solving the problems, you try to pat yourself through a bit. If we now started to deport criminal foreigners consistently and after the first sentence, then they were not only sent out of their apartments, they were then sent out of the country. Then we would have actually seen, I think, solved large parts of this problem. Then, of course, there is one problem left with Danish citizens, I recognise that, but if we started by expelling the criminal aliens, I actually think we would have solved a large part of it. That is the first solution. The second solution concerns our legal system. It says in the comments to this bill that one of the problems in this is that it takes 297.3 days for the city court to reach a verdict. 297.3 days. I remember a few weeks ago we had something in here about libel cases, and it took 616 days to get through the justice system. It is simply not worthy of a modern society that we have a legal system that lags behind so much, next year, over a year before judgments are made about these things. Often the police have done the casework. It's clear. The bottleneck's at the courthouse. That would also solve a lot of these challenges. If we had solved it with regard to the judiciary, we would not have a problem with having to make another law of this kind. I would call for the real problems to be tackled instead of these jappel solutions, which in themselves can be very fine. I think that both the Left and the DF have good kicks around these things, but it is such a patch legislation that just has to cover up the fact that, unfortunately, we have a Parliament that is not willing to do what is necessary and take the necessary responsibility to correct the very fundamental elements that are lagging behind in our society, namely that we have a lot of criminal foreigners who are allowed to stay here and we have a legal system that is hopelessly behind in relation to what it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512183353	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next one on the platform is the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing, whom I welcome now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512183404	Thank you very much for that and thank you for a good debate on the legislative proposal here, which I think is important and sensible for obvious reasons. I welcome the comments it has made and perhaps marginally welcome the comments where there was support for the proposal. Nevertheless, I think we had a good debate. As has been mentioned, the bill translates the government's initiative package • Security for all Danes from the year 2020, which aims to take tough action against insecure behavior. The draft law has, admitting, been a long time in the process, but I also believe that in that time and in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, we have found a model that effectively reduces the challenge that we have of often going far too long from the time when a resident in a general residential area commits violent crime to great inconvenience, to the time when the same resident can be evicted. I think this is quite inappropriate and not fair to the peaceful people who live in our general housing sector, nor is it fair to the idea of our general housing sector, namely that it should be a place of community and a place where a significant social task is also undertaken. It is quite obvious that insecurity-building behaviour at the very, very serious end that we are talking about here is undermining the task that the general general promises and promises well. It is therefore with this proposal that I expect, and also my hope, that they are the very concrete victims of the violence and harassment that in some cases is being committed, not for years have to run on the perpetrator in the rise or in the area. I think that is an important consideration too. There is therefore both a general regard for the community • for the social tasks that are being solved in a strong general housing sector • but also the consideration of a concrete victim of a specific crime. Both considerations seem to me to be met sensibly with the bill we are discussing here. Then there are a number of comments which have been made during the debate and which I would like to address, and if I do not have everything, there is a chance of asking questions in a moment. SF raised that view, it is crucial that one is judged before the hammer falls. And I would just like to say that the basic principle does not break with us. In other words, it is by judgment that we have the opportunity to refer the matter to the Court of Justice when a postponement takes place. What is new is that, if that judgment is appealed against, it can therefore be postponed before a procedure in the Court of Justice has been completed. But it is important for me to say that one must of course be judged before one can be put off. It is also relevant to mention, following on from the debate, that it is indeed the case that the court of guarantee is already taking a position on postponements. So it is not new that the court should decide on postponements. This type of case also needs to be balanced in terms of proportionality today. It is quite generally the case that in our legal system there must be a balance of proportionality, so even if a given law had not drawn attention to Denmark's international obligations, any judgment in a Danish courtroom would have to take account of Denmark's international obligations. I think that is a good thing, by the way. Then it is also important, I think, to be aware of the fact that we are strengthening the right to judge cases by allowing the right to have evidence of a different nature than we have today. This is also an essential condition for the right of the police in these cases to deal with them in a reassuring manner for all parties. Then we are asked about rehousing, and the Left raises a problem, in relation to whether one imagines a deferred tenant who, after the appeal, has overturned his sentence, may be in the situation of returning to a lease, which in the meantime has been inhabited by a new tenant who would then have to be put out. We do not imagine this in the government with this proposal. What is proposed in the proposal is that there should be appropriate and fair resettlement. Following on from the proposal, it could be imagined that it is in the block or in the area, but therefore a reasonable and relevant resettlement which takes account of possible new entrants. Then it has been a debate about the difference between general and private rentals. I think it is essential to be aware that the problem we are resolving here today is not a problem that has arisen in some discourse space. This is not an abstract phenomenon we are dealing with. These are very specific problems in some very specific residential areas, and where we have seen the problems are in the general sector. It's on Motalavej and a number of other places. So I think that we, as Parliament, must also deal with the fact that what we are solving here are some specific problems for some specific people in the general sector. It's not everything else. These are some specific problems in some specific places. I think that is important to be aware of. In this context, it can be added that it will be possible for the court to reach the same decision in relation to postponement in private leases, so that private persons will also be able to be delayed if serious crime has been committed. But it's not like you can do it after the first sentence. So there's this speed challenge if it's a private landlord. But there I just think it is important to argue that we have not seen the same problem, so there is not necessarily the same problem of speed here as in the general sector. So I also think that the proposal is balanced. Then I think it is a little important to mention that when we talk about legal certainty, I think the discussion will be a little academic for my taste. So, again: these are some specific problems in some specific residential areas, and then you can have different ideas about legal certainty, and I am, of course, willing to take that discussion. I think it's also in the job description to have to take that discussion, and I'm happy to do so. But if you look at the people for whom we solve a problem, namely the country's tenants in the general sector, and read the consultation material, it says in black and white that they want these negotiations. And that is, of course, because they have some specific problems. I do not think it is because they do not care about legal certainty, but because they want us to take responsibility in the Folketing and solve some specific problems of unsafe crime. And that's why BL writes very clearly in the consultation material and I didn't get it, so it must be a paraphrase that they don't think there are legal challenges with the proposal. So I think we should be aware that we are solving a specific problem for some specific tenants who want us to solve their problem. Then we can have the discussion about legal certainty, that is quite fine, but again: let us now start from the problems and situations for which I believe we have a responsibility in relation to the tenants, in relation to the victims and in relation to the opportunities of the general sector to act as a motley residential area, understood in the very best way, and the ability of the motley residential area to deal with the social challenges that are also part of the general sector. I am, of course, very much at the disposal of questions and clarifications, both now and, of course, in the committee procedure that we are going to have in the wake of this, and I welcome the fact that there is support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184239	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. It's only from Mr. Knox's office. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184242	I think the Minister could count together to ensure that there could be a majority in favour of the proposal. It was then just without the parliamentary basis, as I spoke it together, and it must surely also have some significance in the long run for a minister, whether the parliamentary basis is with or against. It is true that BL does not have a harsh hearing response to this, but there is, of course, the Institute for Human Rights that follows what legislation is on the way, and I think it is good that there is something that can be wiser to read in the hearing answers that are available. Now the minister said it was Motalavej and a number of other places. The draft law and the comments on it have not been able to see how many cases gave rise to the idea of tightening up. I would really like to know how many cases this is about. Is it three, is it five, since this would be the way to make special legislation for relatively limited problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184350	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184352	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen for the question. I do not agree that this is a limited problem. This is new legislation and, as I understand it, it is not possible to say exactly how many cases you would have been able to raise because you have not calculated it in this way in the past, but I think, Mr President, that it is not possible to say exactly how many cases you would have been able to raise in the past. Søren Egge Rasmussen should ask it as a question, and I will of course ask my house to see if you can make a statement. But as a politician, you have to relate to the reality in which you live and the problems that have been on Motalavej are well described. The problems mentioned earlier by DF's rapporteur are well described in relation to Vollsmose. It is well described how there have been challenges in a number of other general residential areas in the country. And that is the problem we are trying to solve here. Then it is true that the Institute for Human Rights has some points of view. I have great respect for them, but I also have respect for the views of the tenants and the tenants demand it, and it was the legal certainty of the tenants that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184457	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184500	I would point out that what we are discussing here is special legislation. I also find it interesting how our legal system works, and if you really wanted to help the problems, you could also have specific legislation which allowed the length of proceedings in these cases to be shortened, because you would take special account of some residents in the general sector. It would be a little bit to do something that favoured the general sector. Could it not be a solution instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184540	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184541	After all, there is ongoing work to reduce processing time in the Danish legal system. I just think that, as a responsible Parliament, we are faced with a specific problem, which we can solve with a good tool and, by the way, a good tool, which has made a balance between some more abstract rights, which the Institute for Human Rights in their hearing answer, I think is well illustrated, and then on the other hand, and that is perhaps where I think the questioner should have a little more focus: the people involved in this bill, namely the tenants who are experiencing these problems in reality and who want us as responsible parliament to deal with those problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184615	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184619	Concrete private landlords have specific problems with specific crooks and criminals too, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party, in line with the Left, do not understand why private landlords are not equated, so that they also get these tools and thus can be exposed more quickly to criminal tenants. It will also give them greater security. Private landlords today are very careful when renting out, because they know how difficult it is to get rid of people. If they had these tools, they might open up a little more, and that is why I ask whether the government will not help to equate private landlords so that they can share these tools in line with general housing organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184712	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184714	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, and thank you for your support for this proposal. As I think I concluded my speech by saying, I would like to say once again that we are being dealt with in committee here, where we have the opportunity to clarify various aspects, including this one. I do not deny that there can also be challenges in the private sector, which is why I welcome the fact that the strengthening that we are now given by the court of guarantee, the opportunity given to the court of guarantee for proof, will also benefit the private landlord, because the court of guarantee will no longer have the same resistance to rejecting cases because they will have a new opportunity to prove themselves. So we also strengthen the private landlord's opportunities here and the security in areas where there is private rental. But let us try to discuss it in committee. I believe that some of the challenge may be that private rental is typically much more dispersed, so the very problem of demarcation will probably be considerably greater in the situation where it is primarily or exclusively private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184820	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184821	I also have another question. The bill applies only to crimes committed within one kilometre of residence, and will the government help to remove that restriction and simply say that it is crime itself, so it is grosser crime, insecurity-building crime, that triggers these sanctions. And if you refuse, why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184854	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184855	As a starting point, I should like to have some reservations about this, because we will then come closer to a double sentence concept. As we have geographical boundaries, there is, of course, a strict link between the crime with which you commit and cause challenges and the place where you live, and that is why I think it is natural that you can no longer act and be where you live. So there is a good connection between what has been done and the sanction, and I am not sure that the link between the sanction and the criminal act would be just as strong if it were spread to the whole city.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184932	Thank you very much to the Minister for Home Affairs and Housing. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Home Affairs and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512184947	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 17 May 2022. We must first have a explanatory statement from the rapporteur on the questions, Mr President. Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512185017	Thank you very much, President. I have to explain why we have called for this question debate and, as the text says, it is a question of how the government will work to promote the rule of law in Poland and Hungary, according to the rule of law mechanism and the confirmation of this by the European Court of Justice, and how the government will involve the Folketing if, despite breaches of the rule of law, the countries are in a position to receive EU funds. So there are two parts to it: promoting the rule of law in Poland and Hungary, and how to involve the Folketing in that work. I was inspired today in the Committee on European Affairs, and I often do so, and especially when we have the Minister for Foreign Affairs visiting, because then we will have some very good talks, and that is a good thing. But today there was a text on an Article 7 procedure in Hungary, which shows a little how bad it really is in Hungary, and that is not something that has just happened yesterday. However, in 2017, there was a report, the Sargentini report, which in actual fact lists up what it is for some areas, and I think it's a very good way to start this debate by asking how bad things really are. And there are a number of areas that are being criticised, and this is the way the Constitution and the electoral system operate, the independence of the judiciary, corruption and conflicts of interest, privacy and data protection, freedom of expression, academic freedom, freedom of religion, freedom of association, the right to equal treatment, the rights of persons belonging to minorities, including Roma and Jews, the fundamental rights of migrants, asylum seekers, refugees, economic and social rights. Thank you otherwise. Well, you could say that two points were enough, but the whole list is sort of areas that are challenged, and it hasn't improved since 2017. Thank God we have also had some mechanisms along the way, and we will be discussing and debating that; the legal mechanism is an important ingredient in it, and we will then have to address that, and I look forward very much to this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512185308	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Now we have an answer from the Foreign Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512185319	Thank you very much, President. And thank the rapporteur for the questions. There is no doubt that respect for the rule of law and fundamental values are at the heart of any modern democratic society. At the same time, it is the foundation of our EU cooperation. It became all the more visible on February 24 this year. The war in Ukraine is a clear reminder of what is opposed to the rule of law and our values: oppression, dictatorship, war and contempt for human rights and international law. All this is at stake. Strong and independent courts, the heart of the rule of law, are the best safeguards for fundamental values and for the protection of individual rights. That is why, of course, the government and I are dedicated to the defence of the rule of law. Denmark, together with like-minded countries and the Commission, takes the lead in the fight, and we do so in a political, legal and economic path. In the political trail in the Council, legitimate pressure is being put on the governments of Poland and Hungary through the so-called Article 7 procedures. At the same time, we are trying to prevent new constitutional problems across the EU through the annual constitutional dialogue. In addition, Denmark is constantly raising the problems with Hungary and Poland in our bilateral talks, and we are constantly discussing the problems with the Commission, on the one hand, to support the Commission's efforts and, on the other hand, to encourage the Commission to do everything it can to promote a solution to the problems of the rule of law in Hungary and Poland. In the legal track, the government is regularly involved in legal proceedings before the European Court of Justice on compliance with the rule of law. These are typically cases relating to the state of law in Poland or Hungary. In fact, Denmark is one of the most active Member States in the area of the rule of law. On the economic track, we have also made considerable progress. With the new Rule of Law mechanism, for the first time in the history of the European Union, we have established a clear link between compliance with the rule of law and the protection of the EU budget. Unfortunately, developments in Hungary and Poland have shown that the mechanism is needed to remedy the problems. Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán has said that his recent election victory can be seen, if not from the Moon, at least from Brussels. To this I am tempted to say that the problems of the rule of law in Hungary can also be seen, if not from the moon, at least from Brussels and certainly from Copenhagen. I would like to make it clear that even so great an electoral victory can never be an excuse for not complying with our fundamental values and the rule of law. On the contrary, the political majority must be measured by how it treats the minority. That is why I am also very concerned that the Hungarian Government has now proposed that it should be able to rule by decree outside the Hungarian Parliament as long as there is war in the neighbouring country. And that is why I am pleased that the Commission has now started a specific case against Hungary under the rule of law mechanism in view of the alleged widespread corruption in that country. However, it is also important to bear in mind that the application of the rule of law mechanism is not in itself an objective. Our real objective is to resolve the problems and to respect the rule of law across the European Union. When it comes to receiving EU funds that are being asked for, we need to remember the basic rules of the game. The starting point is that the Member States receive the EU funds to which they are entitled through the EU budget. That is, of course, the case, but it is a turning point that the mechanism has established a link to compliance with the rule of law. In concrete terms, this now means that breaches of the rule of law can have economic consequences, and this can happen once the two necessary conditions are met. Firstly, there must be a finding of breaches of the rule of law in a Member State, and secondly, the breach must pose a sufficient risk to the EU budget or to the EU's financial interests. It's not new. The link has always been a legal prerequisite for the mechanism, as it was submitted to the European Committee before and after the mechanism was adopted. At the same time, as democrats and supporters of the rule of law, we also have to stick to the rule of law when applying the mechanism. There must be equality before the law, and the burden of proof must be lifted before we use such a far-reaching means as restricting access to EU funds for a Member State. I am fully confident that the Commission will ensure this. It is important not to confuse the discussion on the rule of law mechanism, which applies to new EU expenditure with effect from 1 January 2021, with the separate discussion on the resources of the recovery facility. The recovery facility is a new tool with special conditions requiring each country to draw up a national recovery plan to be approved before access to Union funds is granted in the facility. It is a condition that the national recovery plans address adequately the country-specific recommendations made in the framework of the 2019 and 2020 European Semester. Hungary, for example, must: present actions addressing a recommendation to strengthen the fight against corruption before the plans are approved. And Poland must, among other things,: ensure that a number of problems are addressed in relation to the independence of the courts. Neither Hungary nor Poland's plan has yet been approved, so no funds have been paid out from the recovery facility to the two countries. This is because the Commission has not yet given a positive assessment of the plans. For the government, it is of course crucial that the Commission gives a positive assessment of the concrete recovery plans before we can be involved in approving them. And the status is that the Commission is negotiating with Poland and Hungary, and it seems that the negotiations with Poland have reached the longest, but since the government is not taking part in the negotiations, I cannot tell you any more. Okay, if we are to sum up in a short form where we stand: firstly, the government supports a hundred percent link between the budget and compliance with the rule of law. It follows on from the government's persistent efforts in recent years, which is based on the support of a very broad majority here in the Folketing. Secondly, the Commission has now initiated the first case under the rule of law mechanism against Hungary. It is important that the first case be a success for the protection of the rule of law. This requires that the two necessary conditions are met and that the case stays the course of action even if it is brought before the European Court of Justice. Thirdly, I and the government will continue to raise the issue in all relevant places. We will press for the problems to be corrected. The crucial thing for the government is that in practice we create respect for the rule of law and that we are ready to let it have economic consequences when that is not the case. However, it is also important to bear in mind that sanctions and penalties are not an end in themselves, on the contrary. Our common objective must and must remain that we reaffirm the European Union as a community of values based on the rule of law, democracy and democratic institutions. It is the best protection for our way of life, and it is a shield against the forces that stand for everything else. And that is why the government, along with the Commission and our like-minded ones, will also take the lead in the fight for the rule of law. I am sure that in future I can count on the support and support of that line from a large majority in the Danish Parliament too; of course I hope so, because it means a lot to our efforts to promote the rule of law and fundamental values. In this context, I would like to stress that I would also like to invite you to a technical examination and a political discussion in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the further progress which I believe will be very important. And I would also like to thank that part of the Danish Parliament which has been sincerely and wholeheartedly committed to this important, important issue, and thus also to raising the question here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512190209	Thank you. One brief comment from the rapporteurs is now available. But I do not have anyone who has signed in, so we thank the Minister and move on to the debate in accordance with the general rules for short remarks. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Kim Valentin, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512190234	Thank you to the President and thank the Minister for reviewing the plans for meeting what we would like the Minister to do, namely to promote the rule of law in Poland and Hungary and to involve us in the Folketing. If Poland and Hungary had applied for EU membership today, would they have been allowed in? That question can be asked at times, and the answer is probably no. In recent years, countries have repeatedly denied the EU's rule of law and fundamental values. For far too long, the EU has been passively watching while the rule of law has been allowed to crumble in the two Member States. While Poland and Hungary have violated basic ground rules in the EU, both countries have been paid EU funds as if everything were fine. Democratic EU members such as Denmark have contributed to Poland and Hungary reaping the fruits of the EU without fulfilling fundamental obligations and standards, and that just cannot be done, not on conditions. In 2020, the European Parliament approved the so-called Rule of Law mechanism, which allows funds to be withheld for Members who violate the rule of law. But it is still too difficult; well, it is still difficult. When we talk about the EU budget, it is quite difficult to achieve that coherence, because it does not apply to the whole budget. This is true in the areas where criminals are committed. We have to work on that. At recovery level, it's different. There is, of course, a question of having a plan approved and that if you have not approved that plan, you will not get any money. It is actually a very good conditionality that has been built into that mechanism. It actually works relatively well. With this judgment that has come, we can commit ourselves to pushing the rule of law in Poland and Hungary. It is simply a task for us. It is a task for Denmark to take on the work of the European Union, and that is what we are trying to push the government to do more than is being done today. We cannot live up to the fact that EU members enjoy rights without fulfilling the obligations that remain, either to the citizens of the countries which are denying the rule of law, or to a large majority of EU countries, fortunately, who can manage to live up to the rules. But something like that is contagious. We'll see about that. I mean, if we just leave Hungary and Poland alone, it is contagious. We see that the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Slovenia have been on the wrong path and are still on the wrong path, and that is why we must always show the direction of a European Union which does not move away from the values and rights enshrined in the Treaty. I hope that the verdict will guide the disbursement of EU funds and that we will have greater conditionality between EU funds and the fulfilment of the values and rights set out in our Treaty. I hope the government agrees with me on that and I will work for it. Then I will read out a text, and it is on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Enhedslisten, the SF, the Radical Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance that I put forward the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers it essential that the EU Member States respect the fundamental values and principles that form the basis of EU cooperation and for any free and democratic society. We must never compromise on democracy, citizens' freedom, dignity, legal certainty and equality. Parliament finds the deterioration of recent years in respect of the observance of fundamental values, including the rule of law in Hungary and Poland in particular, very worrying. The Danish Parliament notes with particular concern that the Hungarian Government does not show any signs of correcting the problems and that, according to the OSCE, the Hungarian parliamentary elections were marred by unequal conditions. Parliament calls on the government to take the lead and to continue its efforts with the Commission and like-minded countries to ensure that the rule of law mechanism, which establishes a link between the rule of law and the EU budget, is implemented effectively as early as this budgetary year and that the Folketing is closely involved in accordance with the procedures in force. The Danish Parliament welcomes the Minister's invitation to discuss further progress. • V 79).
ParlaMint-DK_20220512190809	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, sir. Orla Sea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512190822	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin by saying that I am a substitute today for Mr Seligman. Jens Joel, who has not been able to be here because of the debate on the referendum, which is imminent. However, there is certainly reason to stress that, at a time when the global battle for value is raging, the defence of the rule of law is more important than ever. Unfortunately, we see that respect for Europe's fundamental values of democracy, equality, human rights and the rule of law is increasingly being challenged not only in the rest of the world but also in individual European countries. And we cannot and should not accept that. We must dare to say clearly to those countries that do not respect common rules and principles. The European Union is first and foremost a community of values, and our fundamental values are the heartblood of the strength and unity of the European Union. It is absolutely essential that we in the European Union safeguard our community of values. Above all, it is necessary for Europe to be able to defend the same values in the rest of the world. I am very pleased to hear the Foreign Minister's review of the initiatives that the government has taken to be the ones that are driving to get things sorted out about our value policy in Europe, and I am not going to repeat the examples that the Minister for Foreign Affairs so brilliantly reproduced here. We are very pleased that this new rule of law mechanism now ensures that breaches of the rule of law can ultimately have economic consequences and that the Commission has now, with good reason, initiated a case against Hungary under the rule of law mechanism. So, on the whole, we would like to express our support for the text that Mr. Kim Valentin read aloud on behalf of a number of parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512191028	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no rapporteur from the SF, so the next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Mrs. Susan Kronborg, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512191037	Thank you very much, President. I would like to begin by saying that I am here on behalf of the Radical Left European rapporteur, who unfortunately has no opportunity to be in this Chamber today. It is absolutely crucial for Denmark that we quite directly slam the money box in the EU against countries that violate the rule of law. Firstly, because it goes without saying that it is quite unreasonable to receive money from the community if you break its own rules, and secondly because it is a tool that hopefully can effectively guide those countries on the right track. After all, we must also note that infringement proceedings have been initiated against the background of a number of worrying facts relating to the lack of independence of the courts, for example. in Poland with regard to abortion legislation and legislation in the country. So, in short, we have used on an ongoing basis a number of parliamentary tools to gain insight into and control the government's work in saying away from Poland and Hungary's breach of the absolutely fundamental principle of any democratic country and, therefore, of any EU country that is a rule of law. And even if that work has not given us reason to believe that the government is not working actively to push the two countries, we are pleased in the Radical Left that we also have the opportunity today to discuss the matter more widely. So thank you to the authors of the question for bringing the subject up. We look forward to a good and important debate and to hearing more about the government's efforts. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512191231	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. The next is the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mr. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512191240	In many ways, this is a rather surreal debate, so it is surreal that we should have it at all, I think. For, in the view of the Enhedslisten, it should be quite clear that, in order to be able to receive EU aid, a Member State must comply with fundamental democratic principles of legal certainty. That is why it is strange that we should have the discussion, and I fully agree with it, Mr President. Kim Valentin said that things are really going too slowly and that too little is happening. But why is it so obvious that you should have it? That is because EU aid is not something that comes down from the sky. After all, EU aid is something that comes from other Member States, and other Member States have recovered the money from their own citizens. And if you abuse it because of corruption or to suppress someone, then the citizens of the other countries have to say: why should we actually hand the money over to them? Because if the money is not paid out in accordance with the common guidelines, it is quite natural for the citizens of the countries that pay the money to say: we would rather use it for something else. If, for example, we are going to do something like this... Takes the Enhedslisten, we would rather use the money to support poor children's families or poor pensioners, or for the necessary green transition, or for that matter to help arms to the Ukrainian and Kurdish self-defence forces, so that they can counter attacks by Putin's soldiers and Islamist warriors respectively. In our view, we have no obligation whatsoever, nor should the European Union have any support for countries that violate the rule of law or oppress groups of their own people. Absolutely none. That is why we are also pleased that no money has yet been paid out from the EU Recovery Fund to Hungary and Poland. In both countries we see the absence of an independent legal system, but these are not the only problems. Perhaps that is what can justify the issue of the payment from the recovery fund, but there are massive problems that justify, in general, that no aid should be paid out at all, for example. the repression and acceptance of the repression of the rights of people with disabilities in Poland. That is why we also support maintaining the pressure on the governments of the two countries, and we support the government's efforts in this area, together with like-minded countries, for example. The European Parliament, which, just over a week ago, I think it was on 3 May, with a huge majority of 426 to 133, adopted a call for the European Commission to pull itself together and show firmness to the Polish and Hungarian Governments. And that is why we also welcome the government's invitation to discuss the further progress of the Danish Parliament's parties. After all, it must be obvious that no more than one euro or one cent is paid to Poland and Hungary as long as no significant improvements have been made in terms of legal certainty and respect for human rights for their citizens • all their citizens, regardless of gender, irrespective of ethnic origin and gender identity. We look forward to meeting with the Minister on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512191643	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512191647	As far as I understand, the Enhedslisten is opposed to the European Union. Could Mr. Søren Søndergaard explains to me why EU tools will then be used to beat other independent nations on top of their heads and force them to do something quite specific, that is, to use the EU's tools when you are opposed to the EU itself?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512191710	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512191711	Firstly, we have said repeatedly, and we have said this for many years now, that as long as we are a member of the European Union, we are actively working within the European Union to do things as well as possible. Secondly, when it comes to hitting others on top of my head, I do not think it is to beat other countries on top of their heads if they steal the money on an improper basis. And that's it. When I was a Member of the European Parliament, I sat in the Committee on Budgetary Control together with Ingeborg Grässle, a Conservative Member from Bavaria, and we fought hard against all the cheats. I don't think that's hitting anyone on top of your head. I think cheating should be revealed. They should not have any money, nor do I think that people who violate human rights and the rule of law should have that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512191800	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512191801	So the system that has been built up in the European Union, in other words the rule of law, is a principle which Enhedslisten considers to be a very good principle and which will also be supported when Denmark once leaves the European Union or if Denmark has once left the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512191821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512191821-2	Now the rule of law is not something that has been built up in the European Union. This is something that has existed a long time before the European Union. And I can guarantee you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen for defending the rule of law and human rights, whatever our relationship with the European Union is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512191840	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur has just arrived. Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512191854	Thank you. This is not a completely new debate we have on this subject. We have had it before with the Foreign Minister, and I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the government's commitment to this matter. So, fortunately, we are united in Denmark that the rule of law must be respected. These are the democratic values of which Europe stands on its shoulder, and it is important that we maintain them, especially at this time when we see enormous pressure on our values from the outside but also from the inside. In relation to the case of Hungary, it is always a little, what to say, sensitive to stand and mention the names of countries in this Chamber, too, some who are so close to us, but it is a matter that has also been running for a long time. We discussed this very day in the Committee on European Affairs there was at least also on the agenda that it was already in 2018 that this procedure under Article 7 was in place; there was concern that Hungary was complying with the rule of law. So now it's 31⁄2 years ago, and that's what kind of motivated us, several parties, to take this up again and also show that we mean it seriously. Otherwise we will have to water down Article 7, and that is our concern. When it emerged that we now have Article 7, and we must link it to the budget and the rule of law, we thought that there was hope that this would happen, but that is not what is happening. There have now been elections again in Hungary and, as you can see from these reports on Hungary, it is again that there are very many cases where Hungary is not complying with the rule of law. It is about the independence of the judiciary, corruption, conflicts of interest, privacy, data protection, freedom of expression, academic freedom, religious freedom, freedom of association, the right to equal treatment, the rights of persons belonging to minorities, the fundamental rights of migrants and asylum seekers and refugees, economic and social rights. Although, of course, we have also seen President Orbán stand at the border and welcome Ukrainian refugees, and it is, of course, very good to see that when there is a war close to us, we also stand together and it is important that we do not just think that we are doing enough. It is very important that we focus on implementing this, linking the budget to the rule of law. That is also why we have made it clear in the text of the adoption that there will soon be a deadline for this too, and that is what we are really calling on the government to also go to Brussels and to press for this process to have an expiration date, otherwise it will not have much value. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512192142	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512192154	Thank you, President. The European Union's rule of law mechanism is thus intertwined by the fact that it allows the European Commission to withhold payments to Member States which do not agree with it, and this is about Poland and Hungary, and it is a culmination of a long-term dispute between the European Union and the two countries. Both countries, according to the European Union, are in a situation where they have made themselves at odds with EU laws in various areas, and that is why these countries will then be penalised economically. For us in the Danish People's Party, the right to self-determination is absolutely crucial when it comes to international cooperation. We want a free and independent Denmark with nothing above and nothing beside the Folketing and where the Supreme Court is supreme judge. When we want this for ourselves, we should be some weird ones if we did not want it too for our partner, including Poland and Hungary. Despite its name, the European Court of Justice has not so much to do with law; it has always acted politically and delivered exactly the political judgments requested by the European Commission in order for the European Union to achieve its objective, namely a genuine formation of the state, a federal European Union. We Danes have always had this in mind when we had to vote on EU matters. In fact, for Poland and Hungary, what is now happening is also a kind of awakening. Many in these countries are angry at the way they are treated, the condescending, moralizing supremacy that is experienced from the West, which is spoken of polexit like brexit, and so we are a little sad about that thumbscrew that is being used against these two European states. The rules that have been introduced in many different areas have been dealt with according to the cookbook of democracy with legislative proposals and free debate in parliaments, with votes and even with free elections, and then a Supreme Court which has judged that everything has gone legally and that all rules have followed yes, admitted, not quite as in Denmark, but after all. It must be frustrating for a Polish or Hungarian parliamentarian just to see it all thrown into the garbage is a political EU court, and that may be something we may not care about. We may be indifferent to it, meaning a huge split in the European Union, and perhaps to a degree that we have not seen if we are not careful. If these lashes in the form of daily penalty payments continue, it could be the end of the European Union as we know it. Well, I guess you should take a little pat on the horse then. It is 33 years since the Wall fell, 33 years since these countries ended a socialist-communist reign of terror, with a system that corrupts people morally, which we cannot even imagine, yet they are actually doing quite well. We've had 170 years, we've also been through Provisional Time by the late 1800s. They've had 33 years. If we give them a little more time, treat them a little more respectfully, don't be so condescending, I actually believe that in the long term we will also get them where we want to go. I just have to say that in the former Soviet states there is not the wild cheering everywhere over the European Union as there was at the beginning, and that is, of course, a little too bad for the European Union's supporters. In the Danish People's Party, we don't care, because it's just been good advice. We have our own small proposal for adoption, which I am reading now, and I am therefore going to make the following on behalf of the Danish People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament expresses its astonishment at the economically embodiing punishment which has been introduced by the political court, the European Court of Justice, against two major EU countries, Poland and Hungary. The Folketing salutes the principle of the right of self-determination of the peoples and wants an EU of free and independent Member States. • V 80). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512192645	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's from sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512192649	It's because Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen is talking about punishing, and I just want to know if it is Dansk Folkeparti's view that the Danish Treasury should be such a roof-table for any country that will stick the trunk into it without complying with the common guidelines that are made?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512192704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512192705	No, but they are also on the way, and unfortunately that will never be on the agenda in the media. For example: Hungary has banned tips for teachers. It was a relic from Communist times, it was part of the salary, and it was some kind of corruption. It has been banned, and over three years, teachers' salaries have tripled in order to stop this system and, of course, also to get teachers back to the country. So you're on it. So, I am well aware that Hungary is not a democracy like Denmark, and I am actually just asking that you give it some time and not be moralising, especially on the part of Enhedslisten, who is not entirely innocent, is built on a communist ideology that has been done away with. It is a completely different party than it was in the 1980s, and I am sure that Hungary and Poland will come after it. Give them some time instead of being so selfishly condescending. It's gonna come. I believe in them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512192810	Sir. Søren Søndergaard for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512192812	No, Enhedslisten is not a completely different party than we were in the '80s. We didn't even exist there. Well, we're only established after the fall of the wall, so it can't be done. However, the interesting thing is that the things that have come out about corruption in Hungary and now we can also take the issue of the elections, but it does not really matter and that the fact that you do not have an independent judicial system is not, after all, an argument that we should not just allow that money to come in.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512192842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512192842-2	I totally agree. Cheating, fraud and deception must be pursued, and we must put an end to that. I'm just asking you to be a little patient and not be so condescending and moralizing. So, in the Ukraine and Russia wars, the European countries warned, among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). No one listened to them. They said you're traumatized, and we don't want to listen to you. And it just annoys the Eastern Europeans when the Western Europeans come and are so condescending. In time, we will have Hungary and Poland become well-functioning democracies, as we know it, among other things. in Denmark, but it takes time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512192924	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Katarina Ammitzbøll, Conservative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512192927	Thank you. I cannot help but speak when there is this condescending and believing that things are going to work out. When you have spoken to Polish former judges because they have removed their title, their immunity has simply to be said that a rule-based society is on its way to being seriously undermined. Are we just gonna let it go? And then you think it's just a transition and it's gonna get better. Is it not a decline when judges in Poland have their immunity removed and are now politically appointed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193006	I mean, I believe in dialogue. I believe in dialogue with both Hungary and Poland, and once again I have to point out that it is 33 years since the Communist reign of terror got rid of it, which means that many of the people who are sitting in the system or who have recently left the system still disappear, and it just takes time to do away with the kind of corrupting behaviour that a dictatorship has had on the population. And I believe that the best way to reprove Poland and Hungary is to treat them as equals and then enter into dialogue with respect for the history and background they have, rather than the very bombastic and very condescending way that Western Europeans sometimes tend to do. And I actually think it's a shame, and this is good advice. I don't care, because it really hurts the matter any more if you are so violent in your dealings with others. Poland and Hungary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193112	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193112-2	Yes, but have we not been very equal in the past, where we have just invested? Indeed, one of the countries that has made the most of the entire EU budget is Poland, and they have just been supported and given every opportunity, and there is Hungary where Danish companies are investing. Have we not done everything we can to bring these countries along? So when did that condescension begin? Is it not okay to put a consequence in relation to simply continuing to give money on false premises?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193145	Yes, but it is also such a way that Western Europeans always argue, namely materially and economically. I would just like to urge that we also respect the fact that some of these countries have a slightly more conservative and perhaps old-fashioned approach to things and that it just takes time. In other words, we have had 170 years to slowly become more progressive, which I know Mrs Katarina Ammitzbøll is very much in favour of. Give them time, respect them, and also respect their more conservative approach to things. I think that will solve some of the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193218	Then there is a comment from Mr. Kim Valentin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193222	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I would like to go a little further back, 50-60 years back, then look at Europe and how few democracies were actually present, and then look at some of the success stories there are. We had very Fascist regimes in Spain, Portugal and Greece, and they have come into the European Union, we have reproved them, in exactly the same way as we are now trying to correct Poland and Hungary. In this context, the European Union has a huge value because we can do it within borders. Will the rapporteur recognise that the European Union has a value to reprove within these borders of the European Union? And, of course, they have signed the Treaty, which is why they must, of course, live up to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193322	Spain is an interesting example. After all, there has been a great deal of violence against a region, namely Catalonia, and there have been politically appointed judges in the Spanish Supreme Court playing a decisive role. This has not been so good in the European Union and in the European Court of Justice, even if we do not accept such a move. But when it comes to Eastern Europeans, you hit harder, and that is the hypocrisy that I think annoys a lot of Eastern Europeans. And if you want to do yourself a favour, I think you'll go further if you treat them with respect and understand that they've just come out of this socialist-communist experiment. It was 33 years ago and they have their way of doing things, and of course, if they are to join the club, they must in the long term also comply with the guidelines that apply to everyone. But there must also be room for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193425	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193426	Interestingly, the rapporteur just avoided answering my question as to whether or not we would recognise the value of the European Union. That's all I'm asking now. Can I get an answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193440	The EU clearly has a value for the EU-leading parties in the Folketing, and it also has a value for the Enhedslisten. In the Danish People's Party, we are somewhat sad to be part of the European Union. After all, we would rather be outside and working together with independent nations. But I can understand that sir... Kim Valentin sees a lot of values in the European Union, and I have full respect for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193511	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see any more rapporteurs present, and I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs who does not wish to do so. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place on Tuesday, 17 May 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220512193537	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 17 May 2022, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
