ParlaMint-DK_20220224194107	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224194114	The item on the agenda that we will now be dealing with can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224194124	The debate is open. Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224194142	Thank you for that, President. Today is a dark day for Europe and for world peace. Putin, with the invasion in Ukraine, has started a war on European soil. It's scary, and it's tragic. It's almost impossible to understand and not to bear. My thoughts and those of the Social Democrats go to the Ukrainian people. I can't help but say there's a human face in this conflict. I think we have all seen today that a lot of people are on the road in cars out of Ukraine because they are afraid of what is happening. I am also impressed when a teacher calls and says that a Ukrainian student in the teacher's class has almost gone into shock about what is happening because much of the student's family is still away in Ukraine. On the Danish side, we strongly condemn Russia's attack on Ukraine, which is contrary to international law, against the UN Charter and against international law. This is an unprovoked military attack on a sovereign and peaceful nation. This is totally unacceptable. This is not only an attack on Ukraine, but also an attack on the entire European security structure and on rule-based international cooperation. This resolution is about our common security and security. It is about our commitments to NATO and our common alliances. At a landmark moment like this, it is crucial that Denmark is on the right side of history. We unreservedly support Ukraine's sovereignty and stand in the sand with our allies in NATO. Europe's security is under threat, and that is why NATO has today asked the Member States to activate plans to support collective defence. For Denmark, we may need to activate a contribution at short notice. And what kind of contribution is that? Now I am the first rapporteur, so I would just like to say what contribution we are going to accept. It is primarily a frigate contribution of the Iver Huitfeldt or Absalon&#x2; class with an associated helicopter with a total crew of up to 150 persons. It is about a transport aircraft contribution of a C-130J transport aircraft with a personnel contribution of up to 50 people. A wide range of air-military transport tasks have to be carried out here. Then we are dealing with NATO headquarters and NATO operating units, where we have to provide personnel contributions of up to approx. Twenty-five people to the NATO airborne control and alert system... what's called AWACS. Then there will also be a staff contribution of up to 20 people to the NATO drone monitoring system and to the Danish communications company of up to 70 people. In addition, there must be a combat aircraft contribution which will consist of up to 20 F-16 fighters with up to 250 persons. You have probably heard this week that it is about two extra planes in Poland and four in Ukraine. The remaining ones do not cover the two, which may have to be sent to Bornholm, but the remaining 14 can be inserted as needed. Then it is also about NATO's air force structure, where the personnel contribution is up to 25 people to the Joint Force Component. Furthermore, these are cyber capabilities which could be included in the Danish military effort. The capacities can be deployed independently or as part of the other Danish military interventions. With the urgency of this motion for a resolution we have in this Chamber this evening, we agree that the Danish military contributions can be made available at short notice to NATO's collective defence. Action is needed, and that is why the Social Democrats support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224194539	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I should just like to make sure that I see that the Minister for Finance has asked for a brief comment, but as it is the Minister for Defence who is sitting here, I must be absolutely sure that the Minister for Defence does not want a brief comment. Then we can now move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Gundelach's report. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224194604	Yes, there's no doubt that when the world woke up this morning, it was to a whole new world order... a real cold war version 2.0. We are in a situation where a totally peaceful country was invaded again by their neighbour. Ukraine just wanted to live in peace and happiness with their neighbour, but they were not allowed to hold onto the dream that, of course, as an independent nation, one can be allowed to do so. No, Putin ignored everything reminiscent of international law and law and order, sent his many, many thousands of soldiers across the border from all kinds of leaders and edges and is now well in the process of taking control of a democratic European country by 2022. We have really come to a whole new world order. The problem is, of course, that it should be seen in the light of what reports Putin has made, not only in recent days, but also in recent months and years. We sometimes forget that Putin has already shown the way, in relation to where he thinks Russia should stand, namely as the aggressive party. After all, Russia had already occupied parts of three European countries before the invasion this morning: Georgia, Moldova and, of course, Crimea in Ukraine. So we had already seen what aggression is in this man, but to see it unfold in the actual invasion, which is what we are seeing now, I must admit I think is a horror and warning for us in the rest of the world. Because it also helps to send out the signal that this is now going to be the fight between right and wrong, that this is now going to be the fight against tyranny, and that is where we in Denmark must stand firm on the right path. That is why we in the Left are also a hundred per cent in favour of the proposal put forward by the government, and that is because it is now the case. It is now that we must show what kind of material we are made from, it is now that the fight for democracy and freedom begins, and that is why it is also the most important message that we in the Folketing send, namely to send the strongest possible mandate to our hardworking and heroic Danish soldiers, men and women who are in our defence. These are the ones we can rely on so that we can act as a deterrent to such an aggressive bully as Putin is, and unfortunately that is what is needed. That is why we must also go in and look at what we can do to strengthen this defence, and that is, of course, in relation to NATO, and that is, of course, in relation to the European Union. That is why we in the Left are also one hundred per cent in favour of the opening of defence negotiations as soon as possible. We are simply because we need a stronger defence, a stronger defence, which can match the cash and more aggressive line of the Russian side. When the morning came to afternoon and evening, it is clear, when you see the pictures from Kiev and other Ukrainian cities, that they go through very, very dangerous hours. In fact, we have 22 million people in one of the most populous countries in Europe who now do not know whether they have been bought or sold in a few days, and that is why, of course, we must be clear both from Denmark, but also from Europe, with the strictest possible sanctions in relation to Russia, but we must also be so in relation to helping the Ukrainians who are now in a mess. That is why we must also be ready to help those refugees who, of course, will emerge from this conflict. We must be ready to help refugees in our neighbourhood, and Ukraine is, if we are not to be ready to help our own neighbours, who should? And that is why, fortunately, I can also say from the Left that we are pleased that the government also wants to focus on this, and I really hope that we can also send out the strongest possible signal on behalf of the whole parliament and that we are also united about it. So the conclusion is that the Left supports the resolution, we hope that a united Parliament, or virtually unanimous parliament, can stand together in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224195115	Thank you, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen. There are no brief comments, and that means that we can move on to Mrs Anne Valentina Berthelsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224195127	Thank you for the floor. Today is an incredibly sad day. Even before the sun rose this morning, war broke out in Europe for the first time in decades. Putin's attack on Ukraine has conclusively proved that all his floretous talk about diplomatic solutions has always been a lie and just as absurd as the lies with which he is now trying to apologize for his attack on a free, independent nation. We must stand together on Ukraine and the Ukrainians. Throughout the day, people have fled Russian bombs and from the invasion forces that Putin has sent against them. It is heartbreaking to see images of Ukrainians using public buildings as shelters. It must remind us that the peace we sometimes take for granted can be taken hostage in a split second if a ruthless tyrant first decides to do so. We must stand together on Ukraine in the European Union and in NATO. We must sanction Russia so hard that it can be felt completely into the marrow and bones of those who have chosen to put not only Ukraine, but also the security of Europe and the world at risk. And we need to be ready in Denmark to help wherever we can. We must stand together with our allies, and it is therefore absolutely right that we in the Danish Parliament should now deal urgently with this motion for a resolution, a motion for a resolution which, in a spirit of solidarity, increases the Danish contribution to securing our allies to the east. They're naturally scared right now. They must feel our support. They must feel that their security is our security and that we are united in safeguarding the right of independent nations to choose freedom over violence and vulgar exercise of power. This will also mean the flow of refugees in Europe, and we must deal with them. I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Left, and I do not really think it can be said better than Denmark being Ukraine's immediate area. That is why we must help as many people as we can by those who are now being driven out of their own country. The proposal here aims to increase Denmark's contribution to NATO's joint preparedness, an increased presence in the Baltic Sea and in the airspace of our allies. Putin and Russia must feel that they have long since exceeded the limit of what is acceptable and of what the West can model. The Danish defence must, of course, contribute to this. Our allies must feel that Denmark is 100% behind them, and therefore SF can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224195418	Thanks to Anne Valentina Berthelsen. There are no brief comments, and that means that we can go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Rasmus Helveg Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224195434	Thank you. Today is a horrible day. Everything we want to work for in Europe and in the world is exposed. After all, we want cooperation and we want trade and close cooperation within a democratic framework between free countries in terms of equality. But, of course, the prerequisite is security, and not that large, strong countries thrive on small, weak countries. Our NATO membership has given us the security under which our prosperity has been developed. Imagine how they must feel today in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, who are dying with the elusive bear. How glad I am that we were able to extend NATO in time to both the Baltic countries and Poland and Romania and Bulgaria, and how sorry I am for Ukraine, which does not have the same security umbrella, because they are left to Russia's will. Of course, we support the NATO contribution that is being proposed today. We will, as the most natural thing, stand by our NATO commitments and we must show that we have a reliable response to the aggression that is taking place, that we want a different path from what Russia is now showing. We will, of course, also subsequently work for proper, substantial help for the victims of war, and we will have a good reception for those of the refugees of war who may come. Today, however, we must first of all demonstrate, as the most natural thing, that we are a reliable NATO country that is a burden and a breach of common security. Then, from tomorrow, we will work to further accelerate the green transition and also to increase efforts to help the Baltic countries. We need less and less gas, because energy policy is today also a security policy. But today we are talking about the right, tough security policy, and the Radical Left, of course, supports the proposal and wants it to be posted here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224195617	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Helveg Petersen. There are no brief comments, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224195627	Putin's invasion of Ukraine is so frightening and terrible and totally unacceptable. In the Enhedslisten, we strongly condemn this invasion and the acts of war, and we demand that all Russian troops be pulled out of Ukraine. That is why we have also supported the sanctions that have already been put on the table here earlier today in the European Committee. These are tough and targeted economic sanctions against Russia, which will hit the country's authoritarian political and economic elite hard. It is extremely important that we take action in this way with Russia now, but we also think that we should go further than what is already on the table. This applies both to the ordinary financial sanctions, where we would very much like to go further and also to look at SWIFT and a large number of other things, but most importantly, we would like to see immediate closure of gas, oil and coal imports from Russia while at the same time ensuring a massive expansion of green energy in Europe. So that is the most important and most serious pressure we can put on Russia in the current situation, and I think we should do that. It has also been our call to the Foreign Minister that when you go to the European Union, that is what you really want to try to do. When we have seen all day today how it develops in Ukraine, it is frightening and heartbreaking to see how scared people are, and we can understand that too, because we have seen how Putin's brutal bombings in Syria have also gone after civilian targets such as hospitals, etc., and we have seen how Putin has attacked his own people, his own opposition and critics in Russia, so it is hard not to fear the worst here. That is why we have called for Denmark to be fully prepared to welcome refugees in Denmark and to provide humanitarian aid to Ukraine. We have also asked the government to reopen Danish asylum centres so that we can be properly prepared to help. Save the child already points out that some 7 million Ukrainian children are in acute danger now, so it is so important that Denmark is quite ready to meet the humanitarian needs we face. When I say that, it is also because I think our focus right now should be on Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. When it comes to the military pressure and the concrete proposal here, which we are discussing in the Folketing now, the reality is that neither NATO nor the United States nor any of the European countries are ready to send soldiers to Ukraine. Ukraine is not a NATO country and a direct military confrontation between NATO forces and Putin's forces could also trigger a new world war. So sending more Danish F-16s to the Baltic countries does not seem to us to be a solution for the Ukrainian people quite specifically here, and that is what should be the main focus. Therefore, Enhedslisten does not support what is on the table right now in the Danish Parliament, but there are certainly good elements of this proposal. For example: there is something that is about being able to back up and increase capacity in relation to preventing cyber attacks, also in Ukraine. I think that is a very sensible point. Earlier today, we have also supported an emergency contribution that lies, so I would just like to give a commitment on that too. But, for us, it is important right now simply to use the strength of what works the most, because we must act and we must oppose Russia's invasion and we must provide concrete assistance to Ukraine. That is also why we really want to call for full pressure to be put on this emergency package to stop imports of Russian gas and coal and oil, and for us to have a permanent stop, because we think that is simply the most serious effort we can make now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224200024	Thank you to Mrs Eva Flyvholm. There are no brief comments. Then we can move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224200033	Thank you, President. I will allow myself to go straight to the point. Conservatives support the motion for a resolution on the deployment of Danish military contributions to NATO's collective defence. We welcome the versatility with which we contribute both at sea, in the air and on land with frigates, transport aircraft, F-16 aircraft, cyber capacity, etc. We have also given that support on an ongoing basis in the area of foreign policy, and we also wholeheartedly support the sanctions that we are imposing in cooperation with the European Union. As we have also repeated in the press, we in Denmark must contribute everything we possibly can to NATO's defence, and we must press Russia as hard as possible with sanctions. Russia's attack on Ukraine and, in the absence of better words, is totally unacceptable and, unfortunately, it is most of all an echo from a darker time in Europe's history. On the Conservative side, we are also ready to support further contributions to NATO's defence, if appropriate, and, of course, we are also ready to support further sanctions if appropriate. At the same time, we have also made it clear several times in the press today that we must do everything we can to help Ukrainian refugees; of course, by offering help to Ukraine's neighbouring countries such as Poland and by receiving Ukrainian refugees here in Denmark with open arms. As I said, Conservatives support the resolution as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224200204	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. There are no brief comments. This means that we can move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224200214	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the government for having tabled this motion for a resolution, which has unfortunately become a necessity. I also think that I would like to say straight away that we have felt well informed along the way, including at the meetings that have been held in the Political Affairs Committee in the Folketing. We hope, of course, that this will continue in the future with the high tension we are in. The aggression that Russia is exerting against Ukraine is sad indeed, one becomes just so sorry when one sees what is going on in Europe right now. Denmark's only option is to be a fully-toned and credible member of NATO and thus fill our place as a small country and thus be one of the pieces in NATO that can constitute a total deterrent to Russia. It is, of course, primarily a question of us being able to enforce NATO geography so that we can secure our NATO partners, and therefore also ourselves, but also by sending a clear signal to Russia's President Putin that we do not tolerate the aggressiveness shown by Russia. It is clear, and I think it should be said now, that many Danes are probably looking at this and thinking: it is still up to us to say that we must enforce the NATO area when it is Ukraine that, as a non-NATO country, is being attacked by Russia. Our response from the West is sanctioned. It is clear that when you look at the path of sanctions, you may have some doubts as to whether this will have the effect that we all hope, as several other rapporteurs have mentioned, it is particularly with regard to the whole energy issue, which is of course an incredibly important issue when it comes to sanctions against Russia. It has been mentioned several times in the debate that Russia delivers approx. 40% of the gas that the European Union consumes, and that also means that in many ways we in the West are in the pocket of Russia when it comes to energy supply. That is why I think it is quite right, as previous rapporteurs have also said, that this is a focal point in terms of how we deal with the sanction trail, so that it will have the clear effect that we want it to have. Because if we are to ensure population support for the sanction trail, which can thus succeed with Russia, then it requires that the Danish families also see that it serves that purpose. It is clear that in a situation of rising prices and probably in the future even higher energy prices for Danes and other Europeans as a result of this conflict, this is something that the government must pay the greatest attention to. We in the Danish People's Party believe that we should explore all possible ways to increase our energy security. Although I know that there are many who are shouting about green crazy and what else is being said in this time, one has to say that in the longer term, the green transition will solve this, but not in the short term. In the short term, we will only solve this by increasing our supply of fossil fuels. We might as well say it as it is: it is oil and gas from anywhere other than Russia. We simply have to take this into account in this discussion to ensure that the sanction trail will have the effect and credibility it needs to get Russia to talk. With these comments, there is full support for the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party and we really hope that this unfortunate situation, which we see in Europe right now, will soon be brought to an end.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224200554	Thank you, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mr Beazley's report. Peter Seier Christensen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224200602	Today, Russia has attacked Ukraine and threatens to take the Ukrainians' right to decide in their own country from them. It violates all the principles of respect for the borders and national sovereignty of other countries. Ukraine is an independent country which separated itself from the oppression of the Soviet Union when Communism in the East collapsed. In 1991, 90% voted. of the Ukrainians for independence from Russia. Russia's attacks on Ukraine must be condemned, and fortunately it has also been, both by the Danish Government, our allies in NATO and the other countries of the Western world. Serious sanctions have been announced. That is both right and necessary. For the principle of respecting borders and national sovereignty is the most fundamental thing if we are to hope to be able to live in just a little bit of security. It is not only Ukraine that is suffering now. Security is gone in the Baltic countries, which were also republics under the yoke of Soviet power and first gained their freedom with the fall of communism. They are threatened with their freedom. Are they gonna be Putin's next victim? Finland has a painful history of war and oppression and the loss of land to Russia. Understandably, many people in Finland are now seeking NATO as a guarantee of their country's independence. They should be welcome in the alliance. We see the same thing in Sweden, where a majority of the population now wants Sweden to abandon neutrality in favour of NATO membership. Denmark is a member of NATO. We must be ready to defend the countries of our alliance that are being threatened by Russia. It is also a defence of ourselves and our own national sovereignty. The Danish military forces are part of the NATO alliance's common defence and, in this crisis, we must not hesitate to provide NATO material and soldiers for deployment where this will be necessary in order to defend our freedom. The government wants the support of the Folketing to contribute concretely to the common defence within the NATO framework with part of the preparedness. For me and my party, there is no doubt. That support the government gets from us. My thoughts now go to the Danish soldiers who are to defend our freedom and that of our NATO allies. Some of you are now being sent on a mission. Come home safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224200835	Thank you, sir. Peter Seier Christensen. There are no brief comments, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224200847	Thank you for the floor. Before I move on to the motion for a resolution itself, I have to make some more general comments. We are here tonight because the decision-makers of the 1990s had a choice. Should you trust Francis Fukuyama? He said that the deeper meaning of world history was that all countries would eventually become liberal democracies. Or should you trust Samuel P. Huntington? He said that what we in the West understand as universal values is actually Western values. That's why Huntington said that, for example. China will never buy human rights, and he also said that Russia will never join the Western Treaty and Agreement system. Huntington also said something in 1996 when his famous book on the clash of civilizations appeared, which was almost prophetic when we stand here tonight. For he writes in the book that the scene of the contrast between Russia and the Western world becomes Ukraine. It's crazy when you sit more than 25 years later and read it: The scene of the opposite becomes Ukraine. He's going through that side up and side down. Honourable Members can read it when they come home, if they want to. But because the decision-makers of the time chose incorrectly it was, of course, sympathetic to believe in Fukuyama, it was also overlooked that the Western world has enemies. Our social model does not come on its own. There are those who want to destroy it, and the necessary precautions were not taken in relation to it. But it can be said that to some extent this motion for a resolution corrects that. For what the resolution is about is that, in the light of the conflict between Russia and the Western world, it is about preventing NATO from having a circle of members who are A members covered by Article 5 and then a circle of B members not covered by Article 5. With this proposal, Denmark contributes to the price of e.g. attacking the Baltic states or attacking Poland will be unacceptablely high for Putin. The fact that the price of attacking our allies will be unacceptable is, in fact, a language that the Moscow regime understands, even if the regime does not share the values that hold our treaty and treaty system together. That is why, of course, we support the motion for a resolution B 127. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224201147	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no brief comments. This means that we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Sikandar Siddique, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224201157	Thank you for the floor, President. I would like to start by strongly condemning Putin's illegal and inhuman attack on Ukraine. Free Greens support sanctions and further targeted sanctions so that we can hit Putin and his oligarchs as hard as possible. My thoughts are with the Ukrainians, and we wholeheartedly support Ukraine and its citizens. The most important thing we can do right now is to ensure a safe passage for the Ukrainians who want to leave Ukraine and, of course, to welcome those refugees who, of course, come to Europe. However, it is also important that we ensure that we help humanitarian and civil all we can in Ukraine to help all those citizens who cannot escape for various reasons. We in the Green Group believe that this is where our focus should lie right now. The Prime Minister said quite clearly at today's press conference that there is no threat right now to NATO and NATO countries. That is why we do not support the increased contribution to NATO. We believe that the focus should be on helping Ukrainians and Ukraine. That is why we are also incredibly pleased that the government has called for negotiations tomorrow so that we can ensure, as best we can and together, humanitarian aid for Ukraine and its people. A place where we see a threat to Europe, however, is if Russia shuts down the gas. We must also recognise that we have slept per hour. It is therefore important that, in view of what is happening right now, we ensure independence from Russia and gas from Russia and make ourselves self-sufficient in energy. It will be the absolute best and greatest sanction against Putin. With those words, I would like to say once again that my thoughts are with the Ukrainians, and I hope that we will get this over with soon and as soon as possible, and I hope that together we can do everything possible to ensure that the European countries can help Ukraine and the people of Ukraine. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224201453	Thank you, sir. Sikandar Siddique. There are no brief comments. This means that we are moving forward in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224201506	Thank you, President. The alternative supports the proposal to insert a Danish military contribution to NATO's collective defence in connection with the invasion of Ukraine. It is not so simple for us in the alternative, and there are some who will disagree with me. When that is how you stand on the brink of a potential world war, it is often because the obvious solutions have escaped. The reason I am voting in favour is because I have imagined for a moment that I was Ukrainian and now stood in the midst of a Russian invasion of my country and was told that in Denmark there was a party called the Alternative, which did not fully support the NATO unity which constitutes the resistance to Russia's invasion of my country. I simply could not get myself to send that signal to Ukraine. That is why the alternative to this motion for a resolution is voting. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224201609	Sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no brief comments. This means that we have now come to Mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224201619	From here, there must also be full support for the government's proposal, which is about NATO, and of course also a clear condemnation of Putin. But there are just a few things that I think call for a few questions, which I hope it is okay to ask in the current situation too. This morning many of us heard President Ursula von der Leyen say three things, among others. that this morning Russia, Putin, has invaded Ukraine. I would like to question whether it could be said that it was this morning. As a result, Ukraine was invaded back in 2014, when Putin took Crimea. This is a strange division we have made in this story, so I would like to ask the government to confirm that this is also how it is seen by Danish: that Putin already invaded Ukraine in 2014. Now he is doing so apparently full scale, and that is of course an aggravating circumstance. I would also like to say in this context that, although it may sound strange, we lost even Ukraine on 24 February 2013. It was then that Putin actually offered a debate on whether it would be possible to have a Ukraine that was both part of the Euro-Asian Economic Union and part of the European Union. Here, Presidents of the Commission, Manuel Barosso and Štefan Füle, who were then a negotiator for the European Commission, said that under no circumstances could this be the case. You couldn't discuss that at all. You could only be in one place. From that moment some significant changes were made in the signals and actions for Putin's side, and perhaps, without it all having to be seen in the light of hindsight, one could have seen a bit back then where it was that things were moving. Under no circumstances should this apologise for what is being done by Putin. I would like to emphasise this, but we also need to look at our own history throughout the negotiations with Ukraine, where we did it that way from the European Union, and I know it, because I followed it very closely that it all came to be about Julia Tymoshenko, and then the big story and the big discussion went under the radar. After the Orange Revolution in 2004, Putin already changed significant signals. That is why I say it is the question: what are we going to do now? It is clear that we must be able to show that NATO is strong and that we are united, but, as others have said, this is not a NATO issue as far as Ukraine is concerned. There we come together from the West with some sanctions, and that is also a good thing, because there must be a political response and an economic response to what is going on here. But what are the prospects for sanctions? Because we did this in 2014, and they didn't have much effect. Now we come with new sanctions. What effect does the government expect these sanctions to have? And if they do not have any effect on Putin's behavior, what do we do when he may have the whole Ukraine in 48 hours? Are we imposing new sanctions? If they don't work, what do we do? Then Putin may be setting up nuclear weapons in Belarus, in Belarus. Then we come up with new sanctions, and do they work, or are they not working? And if they don't work, what do we do? And then we have the whole question of full scale in relation to Georgia, Moldova and possibly Serbia... we don't know it and Putin's interest in creating its own security sphere. What are the prospects in the concept of sanctions and the stairs we have made there? I think we lack a little response to that. However, with that said, I would like to stress once again that, although I am asking the questions here and allowing myself to do so in this serious situation, so that we can take things from the top and not from the rear, we naturally fully support the proposal here and the government's line on the whole issue. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224202141	Thanks to Jens Rohde. There are no brief comments. That is why it is now the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224202155	Thank you, President, and above all thank you for allowing us to call the Folketing at such a speed in view of the exceptional security situation in Europe. Thank you for the support of the parties, of the rapporteurs, and for the many, I think, quite apt and correct comments on a day which is, after all, a day in Europe's history, which we have so much not wanted and which will be a disgrace to Russia's history and which will be something, I would also venture to say that it is a new time, in terms of how we deal with security and, in particular, Russia now and in the future. So we are in an extremely serious situation. What we feared, but unfortunately also expected, is a reality. The Russian invasion of Ukraine is a fact. There is war in Europe. It's scary, it's scary, but we can't really dwell on that right now. We need to act. Today, NATO has activated its defence plans. It is a measured step to protect all all allies and ensure a credible deterrent and defence profile. We are now in a situation where our alliance commitments have entered into force. NATO's cohesion is crucial, and Denmark must stand with its allies to safeguard our common security and security, just as we have been doing for over 70 years. Since 1949 we have been part of the world's strongest military alliance that has managed to adapt to the threats against our security, security and our freedom in the alliance. That is also what we are doing now and which we must do now with due care. That is why I would also like to thank the Danish Parliament. It is important that we take rapid decisions and show our alliance solidarity as consistently as we do. Following recent developments and today's meetings of the North Atlantic Council, it is clear that there is a need to be able to make more Danish contributions to NATO. The government is therefore today presenting in the proposal further military contributions in support of NATO's collective defence in the context of NATO's increased preparedness until the end of this year. It must ensure that we can resolutely address any threat to the entire territory of NATO in the alliance solidarity that is essential to our security and security. I would also like to stress that, by its very nature, there is no clarity as to exactly when the various contributions are to be made. The motion for a resolution must therefore be prepared to be able to insert the various contributions at very short or no further notice, as it cannot be ruled out that there will soon be a need to table more motions for resolutions here in the Folketing in connection with new requests from NATO for Danish military contributions. We must all prepare for a period of great uncertainty and the need for resolute response from the allies to Russian aggression. And I would like to thank you for the willingness to deal urgently with these proposals tonight. I would also like to conclude by thanking you for a very trusting cooperation with the parties of the Folketing in recent weeks. We've made a virtue from the government. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentioned informing the Danish Parliament and the parties in the Foreign Policy Name and in other contexts. Of course, we will continue to do so. It is crucial, I think, at such a time as we are in right now that we work closely together and support politically here as well. I think it is a nice and important signal that we in Denmark can adopt the framework for our important contribution to NATO's common defence and deterrence as early as the same day. I hope that happens as Russia chose to start its brutal war and attack on Ukraine. What are we dealing with here? Several rapporteurs have mentioned this. It's a new reality. Those of us who are young and children of the end of the Cold War; those of us who remember November 1989; those of us who remember 1991, when the Soviet Union broke down, and the order that began to grow out of it, that is to say, a Europe that was supposed to be completely, free, in peace with each other after the Cold War; those of us who fought for values, for democracy, for respect for law, not the law of power, we and those values are challenged today. It's a value struggle. It's a battle for basic rules. It is international law that has been seriously violated with Russia's war in Ukraine. That is the autocracy of democracies. It is an attack on Europe's freedom, where Ukraine is today the country at the forefront of that freedom struggle. I would like to stress that here we must support everything we can at all. Many issues have been mentioned: energy security, that is, energy policy is a security policy. We must and must work to ensure that Europe can invest as quickly as possible in green energy, become independent of Russian imported energy, in order to secure our own values and our own freedom in the years ahead too. We are entering a new reality in relation to relations with Russia with what has happened today. Sir. Jens Rohde addressed some of the challenges we face, and the government looks forward to continuing with the Folketing the discussion on how to deal with the threat that Russia poses to not just Europe and our security, but to the security of the whole world. What I would also like to stress in conclusion is that if you first start taking the rules, the values, democratic values, the rules on the sovereignty and territorial integrity of every country and freedom for granted and I think we have done that to some extent in the world for too long, then I think we are starting to lose them. It's like relationships with other people. That is why I just wanted to conclude by saying that we are fighting the value struggle with the means we now have. We must not be naive, and we can also see that when the West and the rest of the world are united, we also have the opportunity to reverse the development that we have unfortunately seen an example of going in the wrong direction, a grotesque example of today's discussion. And we saw Russia's invasion and war against Ukraine. But thank you for your support. The government appreciates it very much. We appreciate the cooperation, and we can come back quickly, if necessary, also to the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224202906	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no brief comments. That's why it's the Secretary of Defense now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224202916	Thank you for that, President. Thank you very much for your contributions in today's debate, and before I move on to the speech that I am going to make, I would like to say a few more things. Of course, what we are deciding tonight is serious, but it is important that it happens with such a strong breadth and as much support as it does, and that is because what we decide is to give Danish defence and the personnel we send out a new mandate, an important mandate, where it is crucial for their use of it and their strength in what they are now going to do, that there is such broad support from the Folketing for that mandate. What we also decide on, and I think that is also important to emphasise, is a continued strengthening of Denmark's and NATO's defences, and it is a work that is best served by this being done in a broad way. Whoever has the opportunity to sit on the defence minister's chair is basically about the defence of Denmark and NATO, which we are here today helping to strengthen. I think that is important to emphasise in an introduction and just another thank you for the broad support that has been given to the resolution here today. We have tabled a motion for a resolution to ensure that our soldiers deployed for NATO, or who can be deployed for NATO at very short notice, are covered by a robust mandate. It sends a signal to Russia that NATO's territory is sacred, and the Russians must know that we intend to defend it. We therefore request the consent of the Folketing to be able to deploy the Danish military contribution in support of NATO's collective defence in conjunction with NATO's increased preparedness towards the end of 2022. And for the record, I should like to list the contributions from today's platform: firstly, the Danish membership of NATO's rapid reaction forces on very high alert, which includes a frigate and a transport aircraft. They must be able to be deployed at short notice and therefore with a robust mandate. In addition, Denmark's ongoing contribution to NATO headquarters and NATO entities, including staff and liaison officers, supporting the alliance's core activities and also the credible deterrent profile. In addition, it is about the new Danish contribution to NATO's air force structure. These include: military planners and staff officers as well. Finally, Danish combat aircraft contributions to the enforcement of sovereignty in the airspace over the territory of the NATO countries will be available. There is a need to extend their mandate so that, in addition to the current mandate, they can also fly over Poland and other NATO countries. It says up to 20 F-16 aircraft in the motion for a resolution. At the moment, this is not the time, and that is why we are talking about two more aircraft right now, but we need to be able to react at short notice. That is why it is desirable that the defence should not be in a situation where there are operational limits to their mandate in terms of geography, the use of force and the number of aircraft. It is therefore also important for me to stress that Denmark is not under military threat, but we have seen how the world that we thought we knew is no longer the one we thought it was. Europe has changed, and so is our security situation, and we must therefore be at the forefront of development and be clear if Putin is to say it now, as it is, getting even more crazy ideas. Thank you very much for the broad support for the motion for a resolution here. It means a lot to Danish defence that the tasks on which they are now sent are carried out in such broad support in the Danish Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224203320	Thank you to the Secretary of Defense. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220224203350	Now it is the case that we are going to vote at a later date this evening, but it depends on when a report has been written in the Defence Committee, and it may be impossible for me to guess, but I am doing so now that I set the sitting at 8 a.m. 9:45 p.m. But if the Committee on Defence and Defence Policy has not finished writing a report at that time, then there must be further determination. But for the time being, I will set the sitting at 8 a.m. 9:45 p.m.
