ParlaMint-DK_20220113100001	The meeting is open. Paragraph 6 of the agenda, the question to the Minister for Culture on the history of the state, is deleted from today's agenda at the request of the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113100019	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113100105	The negotiations have been opened and we will start with the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113100125	Thank you. Yes, we are starting today by discussing a motion for a resolution tabled by members of the SF, and the substance of the proposal is that the government should ensure that regions and municipalities are obliged to develop a national practice aimed at reducing risk factors for all children whose parents, siblings or another adult with whom the child is resident are affected by a death, critical illness, serious injury, drug addiction or a mental illness. I have to say that it is absolutely crucial for all the children we are talking about here that they are given the right help to tackle the very real challenges and the concerns that naturally arise in such a difficult life situation, and that is why I would say from the start that we in the government agree with the intention. There is a need to examine and look very carefully at the possibilities of strengthening the aid for children as a relative, and you can see a little of the scale of the problem by looking at the figures I have here and which are figures from the Cancer Control Agency that have examined this issue. It is, of course, not only in the field of cancer, but also in the area of cancer, and figures from the fight against cancer show that 35 000 children every year find that their parent is hospitalized with a serious critical illness, and there are 300.000 children growing up in families with mental illness. In addition, every day there are five children who lose one of their parents, and we have 122,000 children who live in a family with abuse problems. So this is a major problem, and every one of these fates, of these children's lives, is child life, which is pushed into the risk of growing up very, very close to these massive problems and also with conditions that are very difficult, and therefore society must of course be there for them. And that goes without saying, but we can actually see from the data that all these children are at increased risk of dropping out of education, that they are at increased risk of developing an abuse themselves, and that they are also at increased risk of depression and of experiencing social isolation and loneliness, and all these things can create new problems for them. So it is, I would say, risk factors that speak their clear language, and it is the task of society to seize those children who need help and support, and there are many of them, as the figures clearly say. It is also essential that the aid offered should be organized most appropriately and as a holistic effort which looks at the needs of each child, and that we should therefore be much better able to make ourselves independent of the sectoral boundaries that we can see today. The tasks must be solved where the need is and where it gives the most value to the individual child, and therefore it is also a task where, in addition to the purely professional, we must have an overview of the financial consequences, and then look at where we have our ambitions and how we can have them balanced in terms of possible funding. After all, children and relatives are not a new agenda, but it is also an agenda that has been worked on before I entered the ministerial office and before the present rapporteur became rapporteur, and there is indeed a thorough and professionally good work going on, but there is also a need to strengthen efforts. But I would like to begin by saying a few words about what provisions and what efforts we have today in the field of health in this area. If you go back 10 years in time to 2012, the Danish Health Authority published recommendations for the meeting of health professionals with relatives of seriously ill people, and the recommendations contain instructions on how health care professionals should identify the needs of relatives for support and involvement during a patient course, and so in the recommendations there is a focus on children as relatives and their need for support for serious illness or death of a parent or sibling. There is agreement in the professional environments that the recommendations are good, but it is of course also a prerequisite for applying recommendations to health professionals. In addition, we currently have a number of provisions in the Health Act on the right of persons to reimbursement of psychological care in the practical sector. This applies, inter alia, to: a right to a subsidy for psychological treatment if you are a relative of seriously mentally ill persons or persons suffering from debilitating illness or death. In addition, we have launched our work on a 10-year plan for psychiatry. Today we were able to stand up for the fact that morning newspapers and morning radio newspapers were full of the professional discussion that has already started, now the professional presentation is presented. And I look forward to that debate very, very much, but in that debate it is also a matter of action in relation to the relatives of seriously mentally ill persons or persons suffering from debilitating illness, or death. The Danish Health Authority has presented it here today, and at the same time there are 11 million set aside in the 2019 rate pool and up to 2023. kr. to a centre of competence for children as relatives of people with mental disorders. In addition, we in the government, together with the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Christian Democrats, have set aside 5 million for the last financial law. kr. annually from 2023 to 2025 for children as relatives of parents with serious mental or somatic illness and for children with family violence. It's money that we're gonna agree on together how best to benefit this target group. So it is some of the national things that have happened and something that therefore continues to happen. In our regions too, there is an ongoing focus on working with children as a relative. If you turn the time back to 2019, Danske Regioner here presented their play "Health for all children and young people," and one of the initiatives of the game was precisely a more systematic effort for children as relatives. And this means that the regions are working towards a more systematic detection and systematic support of children and young people under the age of 23 as relatives of parents who are serious or long-term ill. Efforts are aimed at strengthening cross-sectoral cooperation across regions and municipalities. There are, among other things: focus on competence development of health professionals, e.g. by training key people who can handle the support of children as relatives of the mentally ill. So the review shows that it is not, of course, because nothing is happening in this area in relation to interventions. The focus is on help and support for children as relatives. In other resorts, there are also relevant provisions and interventions that include children as relatives to a greater or lesser extent. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Elderly has informed us of this discussion that children as relatives are covered by provisions of the Services Act, for example, that public employees have a duty to inform the municipal authorities if, during their work, they become aware of or reason to believe that a child may need special support. In cases where the municipality receives a notification, they shall ensure that a timely and systematic assessment of the notification is initiated. If there is an expectation that the child needs special support, a child-care study shall be carried out. And on the basis of the children's study, the municipality assesses whether there is a need to implement special support for the child or the young person. Special aid may, for example, be granted to: support in the form of family treatment or treatment of the child's or young person's problems; it may be a permanent contact person who can support the child or young person; it may also be psychological assistance. We have also been informed from the Ministry of Children and Education that many schools have in practice AKT counsellors • AKT counsellors are behavioural, contact and well-being counsellors. They also have other counselors who can support children as relatives when needed. And then we also have PPR • Pedagogical Psychological Counselling that can be involved in the work of supporting students in disarray. So we can see, if we make such an overflying of the area, that children as relatives are covered by several different areas of the resorts of social and health care and the children's and education area. across the municipal and regional sectors. There are initiatives from municipalities and regions and from the state. According to the Danish Health Authority's recommendations, it is important that there is a good cooperation across these sectors to ensure good coherence and high quality of treatment in the help we can offer. As I started by mentioning, the Government recognises the intention to explore ways of strengthening the provision of help to children as relatives. Before we put forward any legislation, it is our assessment that we need to look up. I have now examined what efforts are being made on such an overflight of them, but we need to have a more thorough coverage of the overall effort and the provisions that apply across grief areas. First of all, I want to identify the problem and then we can target the solutions so that they benefit children as relatives. However, it is essential that the children concerned meet with a holistic approach based on the needs of children and not limited by the demarcation of sectoral areas. The children must meet a system that is there for them and that is connected for them. There may also be economic consequences for such a proposal here. Of course, we also need to clarify this. Obviously, we can't print coverless cheques. It is clear that there is no permanent funding for this proposal, and if it means that funding is to be found, then it is a joint task to find it. Against this background, the government proposes the setting up of a working group. It is a working group that we propose to work quickly. Among other things, it will: aim to make recommendations for initiatives, including possible new legislation, to reduce risk factors for children as relatives and to identify the financial consequences of any new initiatives. We propose that it be a broad-based working group. We propose that the working group should include: are established with representatives from ministries, but also from Danish Regions and KL and other relevant organisations. I would very much like, either here or in the subsequent committee reading, if there is support for it, to have input into what relevant organisations could be included in such a rapid-working working group. My proposal will then also be that it will be given the task of reporting back in the middle of this year, which means that if it results in a legislative proposal, the proposal will be put forward in the future legislative programme, which will be presented after the summer, if that is what you end up with. I will, of course, look forward to discussing this with the committee and, if there is support for it, I look forward to following up the recommendations of the working group, including possible legislation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113101401	Thank you to the Minister for Health. There are brief comments. It's Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113101406	Thank you for that and thank you for reading everything you can do. However, the proposal has just been put forward because the efforts that are being made are scattered and not as systematic and coherent as we would like, and it is also about very early prevention and not just about where real efforts need to be made. The minister and I had a very good debate at the public meeting this summer, where the Psychiatry Foundation and Ole Kirk's Foundation had organized a debate about relatives in families with mental disorders. We both agreed, and it was also the panel that no children should be overlooked and risked psychological and social problems, because they grow up in a family with, for example, a family. mental disorders. On the Psychiatry Foundation's website we are both quoted, and the minister said at the time, and I quote from the website: "It is not okay for us as a society to encourage and recommend action, but then nothing happens. Now, as a society, we must step further forward and make it happen. Does the Minister still mean that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220113101519	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113101520	Yeah, I mean, 100%. I would also like to thank the SF for bringing this up and thanking all the other stakeholders and parties who regularly bring this issue up. In my view, the analysis is that for 10 years now we have had some very sensible and very good guidelines from the Danish Health Authority, i.e. professional guidelines. We have sectors that are trying to come up with initiatives and are trying to get to grips with this, but there is a risk that what these children and young people are talking about here, and there are a great many children and young people; I mentioned the figures in my speech, are too fragmented, too random, too incoherent. That is why I propose that we set up such a working group which, over the next few months, will analyse it here and arrive at what we need to do in concrete terms in order to bring together the efforts better.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113101620	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113101621	Should I understand that what the Minister said this summer about stepping forward means that making a cover is the same as stepping forward further in relation to these children? That is one question. The second issue is that the Minister also said at the time that we are incredibly poor at doing prevention and that it is crazy what we spend on sums we could prevent, so we should not ask what it costs, but what we save. Will it also be part of the calculations that such a cover should contain, that is, what we save by giving these children the right effort?
ParlaMint-DK_20220113101656	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113101658	Yes, I suggest that the cover should, of course, be about the effort, but it must also be about the economics of it. We have to bring that too. And if it requires lasting funding, then we will have to discuss with each other how to finance it. However, if there is something that says that rapid action can give a better life to the individual, but can also save society something later, then I think that this must be part of the political discussion we need to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113101729	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113101731	Thank you. After all, it is no secret that we in the Left have been concerned about precisely this issue for many years now. I can hardly imagine anything worse in a child's or youth's life if your mother or father suddenly gets seriously ill or dies, so your anchor person gets torn away from you. Actually, I can hardly imagine anything worse. That is why I was glad to hear the Minister's speech. I'd like to sign for that. I can hear that the government, what to say, is in line with the concerns of the thousands of children and young people involved. In a reply to the Danish Parliament, the Minister writes on 4.11.2021, that the problem here will be addressed in the government's forthcoming 10-year plan for psychiatry. And today we have seen the technical presentation from the Danish Health Authority, namely 37 recommendations. That deserves a lot of credit. But the big question and the jumping point are, after all, when the government is putting forward its proposal for a future psychiatry plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113101836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113101838	I believe that this is part of the effort to strengthen psychiatry and in a 10-year plan for psychiatry. There are two very clear burning platforms that the Danish Health and Social Protection Agency has put forward in their paper to us politicians and to the public today, and one of them is precisely an early effort for children and young people who may be at risk for one reason or another. And here we have children and young people who are just exposed for a clear reason, which one can even reasonably quickly and easily identify. So I interpret the Danish Health Authority and also the Danish Health Authority's paper as a very, very clear recommendation and as a clear description of initiatives that can also benefit this group. I look forward to discussing this with the parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113101938	Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113101940	But the Minister does not answer what I am asking. I am asking, of course, what the Minister himself wrote in a reply from 4 November 2021, precisely that the issue here and I quote: will be addressed in the government's forthcoming 10-year plan for psychiatry. Now we have the technical proposal, so it is quite legitimate to ask the government: when will the government come up with its proposal for a future 10-year plan for psychiatry? 'Cause that's one of them. in the plan and I'm glad the government here announces that we also have to deal with these difficult but very important issues for our children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102016	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102017	We will try to conduct the political negotiations as best we can. It depends on whether the Folketing agrees with us on having this fast-working committee. And if it comes with anything, then we're gonna have to do the psychiatry plan for that, too. It is an important corner, but not the only corner or point that will be in a 10-year plan for psychiatry. Well, we'll have time for that. I haven't determined exactly when. Now we have received it here today, when it was published, and there are a number of meetings with the Danish Health and Social Security Authority. I look forward to them. So, first of all, it is the professional work that we will ensure will be broadly based.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102053	Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102054	Now I'm a football fan, and here not long ago I saw Liverpool playing a football game: Diogo Jota dribbles completely free, he stands at the goal field, and there's field player inside the goal, and then he fucks the ball, and then it goes out • the man completely burns one of perhaps Premier League's greatest obvious chances in this year, perhaps in this millennium. I think the President saw that fight too. I feel almost as if the Minister is standing here with perhaps one of the most important and best resolutions made in this Assembly at least. Then I won't take my mouth too full. Then why don't the government just take it with a kiss hand and kick that ball in the goal, because it's so obvious. And it's covered. And it is clear that patients' associations in the Danish Cancer Society are fighting and fighting in the municipalities and there is too little going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102205	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102206	I would say that I fully agree that we have a challenge, we have a problem. I also agree that it is not because we lack professionalism or professional recommendations, because they exist; but that is the context and challenge of this resolution, which I also think is good and has very good intentions, because it requires us to have legislation. We need to know exactly how that legislation is to be worked together, and is that what is right? For the experience from in here is also sometimes, if you have to be so honest, and you have to be on the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament that you sometimes rush, and then we think it's fixed with a law. It's not always that it's just fixed with a law. There may be other things. It may have to be a law in a different way than we can just come up with in here. At least I believe that it is important that we change it. And what I'm proposing with this is to set up a fast-working committee. And if it comes up with that idea of a law, let us discuss it and then, of course, we will be ready to follow it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102309	Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102310	But we already have that experience, Minister. We have them from Norway, we have them from Sweden, so what it means for the systematized. It has always puzzled me that both the Left and the Social Democratic Party, which the two major parties have not wanted to play a part in making legislation here and have not wanted to play a part in following the systematisation that legislation provides and with which we have experience from the other Nordic countries. So wouldn't the Minister hurry up? It's important.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102342	Yeah, and it's important. I am not going to put words in the left's mouth, but I heard that they also addressed how important it was for the Left, and it is certainly for the Social Democrats too. I also hear in my discussions with the rapporteurs on these issues that it is important for all parties so there is not much party politics in it. But, of course, there must be health care in it. Our proposal is a fast-working committee with the stakeholders that the Folketing is now proposing and on which I hope we can agree. And they will have to report back this summer so that we can get it on the legislative programme if that is what will be the recommendation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102418	Christina Thorholm, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102420	Legislation is important and we need to get it unveiled. But I am worried when the Minister speaks in favour of PPR and the efforts in the primary school and the ACT being able to meet the needs, because this requires a particular professionalism in relation to children and young people's grief when they lose or they have severe illness in the family, and we know that often they do not have that professionalism in the municipalities. So what does the minister think about when he says that? I think that in no way does it meet the needs of children in order to have preventive action, and by doing so I also believe that they are entitled to have national quality plans, which both talk into preventive and treating action, so that they are entitled to something and not to a more random effort by an ACT employee who knows nothing about grief and these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102516	But that is one of the issues. One of the follow-up actions that has taken place is that one has tried to train key employees with exactly these particular competences that one needs to have. One thing you can say about the staff who are in the schools and who are mentioned here is that they are close to the children and close to the children's teachers, etc., which means that these are some of the places where we as a society are close to and can be quick to detect that there is therefore a special effort to be made here. However, it is in the context of the system of cross-sectoral efforts that I believe we have the greatest work ahead of us. Whether we do it best by law may well be, and then let's look at it, but it may also be that you can do it in another way. So let's find the smartest way to do it. But I fully agree with that, and if it sounded like I dropped the responsibility or said that it already works perfectly, that was not what my speech was supposed to be. My speech was supposed to be a list of different bets, but the effort has the character of being too sporadic, too random and too scattered and divided.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102619	Mrs. Christina Thorholm, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102620	Yes, and it is of course by professionals who have a teacher identity and not necessarily the specialist knowledge it is about when dealing with very vulnerable people. At least that's my experience of the welfare system. I am worried when the Minister uses these examples and when he does not understand the complexity of the skills and the system that needs to be used in relation to the efforts here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102649-2	Then maybe it was a bad example I set. It was only to give an overflight of the various efforts and also to recognise the good work being done, but also to be honest and to say that the good work is too sporadic and too random, and there is too much distance between sectors. This is one of the points addressed by this motion for a resolution, and it is in this context that I propose that we set up a working group which professionally qualifies it and then make recommendations on what we as Parliament should do. And if it is to be legislation, we are very, very open to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102722	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, and this means, after a little bit of alcohol, that we are starting the rapporteur's round. Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113102750	Thanks to the SF for raising a very important issue: how we as a society ensure better help for children as relatives. For example, these may be children in families suffering from a death, serious mental or physical illness or abuse problems. For me and the Social Democrats, there is no doubt that these children need help. The children are in a very vulnerable situation and are at risk of serious misfortune, which risks putting lasting traces of the rest of their lives, which can affect both relationships with others and the possibility, for example, of completing an education. That is why we fully agree with the intentions behind the proposal. We must do better and ensure that all children receive the necessary help. It must not depend on your place of residence whether you get the help you need. Unfortunately, from my own work in the psychiatry field, I have also heard stories about how children stood without professional help when mother or father was admitted. Here we focus on securing help for the person who is admitted, but sometimes we may forget that behind the admission there is also a family with children who are going through a difficult time. I remember, among other things. a very strong story from Jonas • a young man who took part in our hearing in the Health Committee in the autumn. He told how he had experienced his mother being hospitalized repeatedly without anyone grabbing him and offering him help. That is why we also agree that there is a need to ensure better help for children as relatives. After all, we have already taken a first step with the Finance Act. Here we agreed to allocate 5 million. kr. per year in the period from 2023 to 2025. We must also recognise that this is a complex area where there are many different actors and different legislations that play together. And where is the responsibility? Is that the hospital? Is that the school? Is that the city? Are these the regions? It is about health policy, social policy and education policy. That is why it is important that we think all of this together, otherwise we risk building new systems that do not work well enough together. This is one of the major problems today when we look at, for example, psychiatry. This is precisely where there is a lack of coherence between the different interventions across different areas. That is why we can also support the model outlined by the Minister for Health: setting up an inter-ministerial working group to review the current legislation and the efforts already made, among other things. Health and education, and in this context assess whether there is a need for new legislation and whether in other ways we can strengthen help for children as relatives. It will also provide a good starting point for discussing the implementation of the money that we have allocated to the area next year. I think it is a good thing that it is also planned to involve organisations in this area which have a great deal of knowledge about the problems, in how best to help the relatives. At the same time, we must also shortly start negotiations on a 10-year plan for psychiatry, where the issue of the well-being of children and young people will also be an important issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103248	There are brief comments. First it's Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103251	Thank you. The psychiatry plan is going to be about mental disorders. This proposal goes a little further than that. I wanted to say that at the hearing mentioned by the rapporteur, where a young man also attended, I do not remember whether it was him or whether someone else said it was said that it is more often that health professionals ask whether there is a dog in the home that needs to be looked after than they ask if there are any children. After all, this proposal is not just about efforts that need to be made and about help and holistic efforts for the family. It is also about discovering at all that there are children, that there is a system of registering and tracing whether there are any children, and then, of course, to have some opportunities to help them, but also to support parents in talking to their children about the illness or mental illness they may have. So I just want to hear about the recommendations that have now been in place for ten years in this area, which are really good and which do not yet work out there: how will the Social Democrats ensure that they are followed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103406	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103408	Thank you for also mentioning the hearing we had in the autumn in the Health Committee. As I said, I also thought it was extremely useful to see the extent of this problem and the complexity of it. And I fully share the SF and the rapporteur's view that this is a place where we have to act and where we have to find out what is already there. The recommendations are one of the many things that are already in place and why are they not working as they should today? I find this very interesting to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103512	Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103513	I think it is excellent to involve those organisations in preparing a future piece of legislation. The proposal here is about whether we want to make some legislative commitments. So when the Social Democratic Party is uncertain whether there should be legislation in this area at all, I have to ask: what should convince the Social Democratic Party that legislation is necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103537	I have no doubt that there must be legislation, because we have legislation today, but it does not work properly. Should this be changed, it should be adjusted, or is there something in the actual implementation of the legislation, the recommendations and the many initiatives that we have that do not work? That is what it is very important to uncover so that we can make the legislation work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103610	Sir. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103612	I almost feel sorry for Mrs. Julie Skovsby. I can almost feel that Mrs. Julie Skovsby just thinks that, of course, you should vote in favour of this. But I remember from when I was the political rapporteur of a large party that had the power of government when others tabled a resolution, and it seemed to me that this is a very good thing, why do we not vote for it? But you just don't. And I think that may be such a christiansborg culture that we could get a little bit out of. For the truth, Mrs Skovsby, is that today there is a huge difference in whether something is being done about it in relation to where you live. And the truth is that we have been discussing this for so long politically and looking at those recommendations for so long politically, and we have seen the experience of other countries with how it works that we complicate it unnecessarily. And it's my experience that Mrs. Julie Skovsby is complicating this unnecessarily and using it as an argument for not dealing here and now, after 10 years of recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103720	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103721	I do not think I complicate it unnecessarily, because I think that, and I believe that this is something that we in the Committee on Health, which took part in this autumn's hearing, got the impression that it is a complicated area, that there are a great many bodies to play together and that it is today too random to get the help you need. There are many initiatives, there are many sectors, there are many ministries that are inside, but there is something missing from the interaction. That is why it is quite right that an inter-ministerial working group should be set up and that this working group should be quickly identified, why it is that it does not work as it should today and why it is that these children do not get the help they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103829	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103830	Well, that is because the recommendations that we know all too well are not law, and thus it is not systematized, and when it is not systematized, there is too much that ends between the different chairs, as Mrs Julie Skovsby quite rightly describes it. And that's what the SF's excellent proposal here is trying to take care of... it's actually making legislation and getting to grips with things we know need to do to make this work. So get started and get that ball kicked to the finish line.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103909	I think, sir. Jens Rohde just had to hear what the minister said about an overflight, compared to what already exists. And I think that should be done just to see that it is not just these recommendations that are at stake. If that's all it was, it was easy to go to, but it's all the other areas it's all about. It's also about school, it's also about home. And that is why I am still away from the view that we should have a working group.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103955	Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113103957	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the rapporteur for his speech. More than 330,000 children and adolescents between the ages of 0 and 17 have at least one parent who has a mental illness. Many of them live an immensely wretched life because they are not properly taken care of, they are not being heard, they are not being seen, and we know that many of them themselves will have a psychiatric diagnosis in adult life, so there is such a need for effort. I would like to make it clear, even before I have to give my rapporteur's speech, that we in the Left are not in such a way dismissive of a working party that can make sense. However, such a working group must not become a jar of jelly, nor is it a secret that, in the run-up to the debate here, I have been in dialogue with several rapporteurs, including the Socialist rapporteur, and to the rapporteurs it has been made clear that it is essential for us in the Left that, if that is the path to be taken down, such a working group should be quick-working and it should report to the committee before the summer. Can the Socialists back it up?
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104103	I very much agree that there is a need for a rapid working group which, even before the next session, can have completed its work and delivered it to us so that we can get their professional input and then look at whether there is a need for legislation, whether we already have legislation that can work if it is implemented differently, whether there is something that can be adjusted and what is needed of action. So I think it would be good if we could get the legislation in place in the next session.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104158	Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104159	I think I'll just confine myself to saying thank you for that statement. That was not an answer to my question, but I hear that the Socialists are prepared for something to happen, and I just want to say that we are on the Left side too. We are impatient, especially because the funds allocated to the competence centre will expire here in 2022. So we need to get something done. I am actually just wondering why the Socialists are not saying: yes, let us set fire under that working group; let us get over the steppes so that we are running in 2023.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104234	I would also like to thank you for that dialogue, and I am sincerely pleased when I hear the rapporteur speak and support this agenda and would like us to move forward this agenda as quickly as possible. Now I think I will stop, and I think I shall leave the floor to Mrs Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104309	Thank you to Mrs. Julie Skovsby. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104327	First of all, a happy New Year to my colleagues here in the Parliamentary Chamber, where we are dealing with the first resolution in the field of psychiatry this year, and also thanks to the Socialist People's Party for raising an immensely important issue: how to ensure better help and care for children and young people who experience mother or father being admitted either with serious physical or mental illness, dying too soon or suffering from abuse problems. The thousands of children and young people need to be seen and heard, even though we rarely hear their voices. And that is perfectly understandable, for who would have any profit for it, when the family's safe frame is often blown into a thousand pieces from one day to the next and life falls apart when mother or father goes away or is hospitalized with serious illness. It is a traumatizing and landmark life event. Fortunately, we have strong organisations that keep politicians in their ears, demanding not only action but also more targeted action for children and for the sake of young people. I would like to sign for the efforts of the 18 organisations of the Family Initiative. It's strong when, among other things, it's strong. The Lung Association, the Accident Patient Association, the Multiple Sclerosis Association and the National Association against Eating Disorder and Self-Disorder in a joint letter to us psychiatric rapporteurs point out that the recommendations made by the Danish Health Authority for the efforts of children and young people as relatives are far from being complied with in the real world in the hospital departments. And yes, in fact, it is so bad that three out of four hospital managers in one study indicate that they do not know about the recommendations at all. Here's room for improvement. After all, it is not because we have not politically seen, recognised or acted on the issues or neglected to provide interventions for children and young people as relatives. From my time as a pool rapporteur on both health and psychiatry, I remember many late evening and night hours in the Ministry of Health for debates where, as rapporteur for the Left, I am among others. have fought for resources for interventions which, in one way or another, have been able to strengthen professional care for vulnerable children and young people who, either for a time or perhaps forever, have lost the permanent anchor person they have in their children's and youth's lives. We know that legislation has been introduced in Sweden, Norway and Finland, and I do not wish to deny that this is also the path we should be moving down in Denmark. Separately in the psychiatry area, I expect there to be real light at the end of the tunnel. In a reply to the Danish Parliament on 4 November 2021, Minister for Health Magnus Heunicke writes about a report from among others. Psychiatry fund for children as relatives of parents with mental illness, and I quote: I cannot stress enough how crucial it is that we come all the way around psychiatry. Of course, this includes children who are relatives of parents with mental illness. I welcome the fact that the report helps to highlight some important areas, and it will also be addressed in the government's forthcoming 10-year plan for psychiatry. The Danish Health Authority's technical proposal for the 10-year plan has been published today, and I am therefore curious when we will see the government's proposal. I tried to ask the Minister for Health earlier, but I didn't get an answer. Because I am curious to see what the Minister has in mind for children as a relative, and I am curious to see what new offers are to ensure that the 333 000 children in Denmark who are between the ages of 0 and 17 and who have at least one mentally ill parent are no longer to be overlooked in a rushed and stressed health service. But every child is entitled to effort. On the left side, we are open to the Minister setting up an inter-ministerial fast-working working group, with the aim of identifying the current efforts across the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Elders, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Children and Education, and this must of course be done in cooperation with the civil society organisations in the field. But such a working group must not become a jar of jam. The working group must therefore report by the end of June 2022 at the latest, if it is up to us in the Left, so that relevant initiatives can be launched in 2023. From this point of view, we in the Left hope that we can reach each other politically broadly in a joint report which points towards action.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104816	It is a brief comment to Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104819	Thank you. And the fine thing about it is that you can just set up such a working group; it does not prevent us from voting in favour of our motion for a resolution because we can achieve that. The legislation is set out in the proposal to be submitted in October. The rapporteur himself mentions the 18 organisations which have also sent us a statement of support. And what they say unanimously is that there is a need for more binding action, in other words through legislation. I hear the rapporteur say that we are not opposed to legislation, but what is to decide and you decide on legislation or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104900	I think it is important that we find out what action is now being taken on health, social and education issues, just to mention a few areas where action has already been taken. Let us find out what is there, because it makes everything else equally easier to make legislation that makes sense in relation to the target group.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104922	Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104923	Thank you. I actually assume that it is always the case when a government has to put forward a legislative proposal that you then uncover things before you make the legislation. After all, this is just a motion for a resolution, which is why we are not very specific about how the legislation is to be drafted. We expect that there are skilled ministries to help us with that. I think it is excellent to create such a working group. What is my question is: what is it that will decide whether to make some legislative commitments and put forward a legislative proposal in the autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113104959	I can well hear that the SF's rapporteur here is calling for one small thing to be put on the finger, one spot that could trigger a legislative taxault. But I don't think you can think of it that way, because this is about people, Trine Torp. This is about people who are in a difficult life situation; it's about children; it's about young people; but it's also about whole families. That is why it is important for us in the Left that we get the work started. However, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, it must not become a jar of jelly that needs action.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113105037	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113105039	Yes, there is, and Mrs Jane Heitmann said so in 2014. It's been such a long time. You can read for yourself that Mrs Jane Heitmann, who thought that Denmark should be inspired by Norwegian legislation. What has happened since Jane Heitmann's position on this? It is, in fact, somewhat unclear to me where the Left is in relation to Norwegian legislation today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113105109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113105111	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I think we should deal with what has been done in Sweden, what has been done in Norway, what has been done in Finland. And, as I said, we are not dismissive of legislation... we are not. We would like to look at what might be possible. Then Mr. Jens Rohde about what's happened since. That is where we have taken a number of initiatives together, including: qua rate pool; inter alia: As the Minister also mentioned, a centre of competence has been created. The funds are due to expire this year, which is why I would like to say that the time has come for us to give it a new service check with a rapid-working working group. And then we decide for ourselves on the basis of what is being unveiled and whether we need legislation in Denmark and what kind of legislation we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113105156	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113105157	But there is, of course, a very good report from the National Sorgcenter, which appeared last year, with analyses, coverage, recommendations, concrete proposals. It is very good to be inspired by. How long are we gonna keep walking around like the cat about the hot porridge? I mean, everybody's preoccupied with this. We are not going to have to discuss things with each other, because everyone wants the best for the children and so on. However, this is the question of taking into the hands of the instruments that Mrs Jane Heitmann argued for in 2014.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113105238	Thank you. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113105239	Since 2014, we have among others. It is precisely because we know that the national grief centre is closely associated with, among other things, the national grief centre, that it has been a priority for us in the Left. Children, Young People and Sorrow, who make a great effort every single day, also for this group of children. And I fully agree that there are things that can be done better, more structured, and that is what the work of a working group can help to uncover.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113105316	Thank you for that to Mrs Jane Heitmann. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113105337	I would say, as another rapporteur mentioned, that this is probably one of the most important proposals that has been put forward, yes, for a very long time. And I would like to say straight away that we can easily support the need for legislation in this area. So thank you to the SF and Mrs Trine Torp for bringing this proposal forward. It is sad that for many years we have not tried to lift anything from below. We are doing a great deal when it comes to prevention, but many of the things that are being done by different governments are treating symptoms and relieving them. And yes, we ourselves have done a great deal to help many of those in crisis, so we have given money to the SMIL Foundation, which helps very sick children, money to children's hospices, where we help the whole family and also the children who are siblings of a cancer-stricken child. But when I think it is one of the best proposals, it is because every time we talk about prevention, we do so by raising the price, punishing people and hoping that people will succeed in changing people. Instead, we should look at what it is that makes you go out there, where you need either to sedate yourself, draw attention to yourself, be outgoing, steal or go into groups where you can use some of the things you might also have grown up with, because you do not get the help that is needed from the start. These are some of the things that I can see in this proposal. This is not because this proposal solves all the problems of social inequality, because if we are to solve the problem of the inequality we see in health and the inequality we see here, we have to do something when we discover the problem. Then it is also true that there are some cases where we do not detect the problem, and I think Mrs Trine Torp also mentioned that. Because how do we find some of these kids and kids who need help? There is much more work to be done where we dress both teachers, educators and healthcare professionals and not just health professionals who can get to grips with them in the hospital, because it is not always that they are there when you get there. We know that when it comes to children of addicts or mentally ill, they hide what they are embarrassed, they are ashamed, they do not bring other children home. It is still a taboo to say: My mother suffers from depression or has a schizophrenic disorder. So how do we do it? It's probably one of the biggest questions in this case. Because we have to be committed all around and we have to do it in a very good way, so of course there has to be interdisciplinary cooperation across all the organisations, municipalities and regions that can be in touch with these things. What I hope you can do about this is help. We had a conference yesterday on the mental well-being of children and young people, and we know that it builds these blocks on your vulnerability if you grow up in a vulnerable family or if you get a trauma as a young person and you are not helped. Many of those who have had a psychiatric diagnosis or who have gone into abuse or who are prostitutes or whatever it may be, have to go in and talk to them. I went to an abuse center once and asked some of the drug addicts who were, what childhood they had had, and then you get to know exactly some of these things they grew up with. So there is an effort to be made, and that is why I look forward to the work of the committee, and I would like to ask a few questions. Because at the same time as we have this, we must also be careful that we do not go above the threshold, so that we again punish or forcibly remove children, or whatever it may be. For that is the only thing I would just like to ask the rapporteur, namely paragraph 1 of the systematic record: how do we do so without going beyond the limits which I know the Socialist People's Party itself is in favour of us being careful not to exceed, in relation to what is personal, so that it does not become a violation of it? However, I am very much in favour of the proposal and hope that it is one of the things where we can say that this is real prevention, where we actually prevent and not just treat symptoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113105837	Thank you. There is a brief comment to Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113105841	First of all, thank you for a very good speech. I think that was much of the essence of why this resolution is so important. On the question of record keeping, I would like to say that it is primarily about the fact that there is a child in the records, so that the staff actually remember to talk to the parents about how they talk to their child, and so that the staff are aware of the child. Because it is not a core task for them, for example. an adult oncology department to talk to children, but they must have the attention anyway, and the file helps to give them that attention. And then it can be said that when it comes to passing on information, it is of course with the consent of the parents, but there are also not many parents who are in this situation who will not do anything to cooperate with the relevant parties to be involved in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113105942	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113105943	It makes me feel a little comfortable that this is the journaling. It doesn't say what kind of journaling you see. But this proposal is very broad. There are really, really big differences as to whether you have a parent who dies and you stand alone in grief, or whether you grow up with a mentally ill mother or father or in an abuse. I mean, these are very different things that have to be dealt with differently. You are vulnerable in different ways and you also need different treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110017	Thank you. Then we thank Mrs Liselott Blixt very much and move on in the rapporteur's line to the Radicals. Mrs Christina Thorholm, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110045	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the SF for making this suggestion. It is a very central proposal. Too many children face the difficult situation of losing their mother or father without systematic help. It is also about children living in families where there is serious illness, or families with mental illness close to life. The figures have been mentioned several times in the proposal, and we are talking about too many children. All these children need the necessary help, as they are less thriving and feeling alone in their family situation. And it can lead to anxiety, depression, mental disorders also for them. Fortunately, this does not lead to too many children, but we must do so with the help that is needed. We would like to see national guidelines for treatment, because there should be no difference between living in Hellerup or in Herning, because efforts are largely based on guidance. It is about strengthening prevention; it is about uniform and systematic support and guidance; it is about uniform and cross-cutting cooperation that ensures action. That's not good enough. Studies from e.g. The National Sorgcenter shows that the recommendations are rarely implemented. And it makes an impression when 18 organisations support the motion for a resolution that legislation is needed to safeguard children's rights, just as there are in Sweden and Norway. A lot of people are committed to the effort, but we still consider that there is a need to identify possible solutions across relevant sector areas and to involve relevant parties and organisations. We would also like to see the economic consequences revealed by making legislation. Are we gonna take all the kids? At what level of service should we have rights? We would like that to be assessed in the work to be done. We support the setting up of a multi-disciplinary working group to provide recommendations and initiatives for new legislation that minimises the risk factors for children as relatives of parents suffering from critical illness and children living in families with drug addiction and mental disorders. And we believe that the legislation should be based on the current recommendations. And we need to look at what legislation there should be and the economy involved, as I said before. It is important that we get started, and it is important that we present what legislative needs there are, so that we can put it forward and look at it also in the context of a financial law. It has been suggested that a working group should be set up with the regions, the Minister for Health, the Minister for Education and the Minister for Social Affairs, because this is precisely about cross-cutting action. But I also believe that it is important that, among other things, we should: Better Psychiatry and Children, Young & Grief are involved in this work because they are the closest. As I also asked the ministers in the first place, it is a question of special knowledge in relation to these children. General education does not provide that knowledge so that one can enter the effort at the adequate level. That is why we are looking forward to the work that will be done in the working group and which can form the basis for some legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110452	Thank you. There is a brief comment to Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110455	Thank you for that and thank you for wanting to introduce national guidelines so that we can have a slightly more uniform practice in this area. I very much agree with what the rapporteur says, namely that they must be based on the current recommendations, which are, of course, very good. Well, there are some very good recommendations that are just not known enough and that are not used enough. That is why I do not think that the cover work should be so extensive, given that we already know what needs to be done. But I just need to hear something: is it crucial for the Radicals what it is going to cost? Is it the case that it stands and falls with the economy, in relation to whether the Radicals want national guidelines introduced through legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110541	Yes, we need to know what it costs in that priority discussion. It is a very important agenda for us, it is a priority, but it is therefore still important for us to know what it costs. After all, we can implement legislation at many different levels, so what is the level we are talking about? That is what we would also like to see identified in the working group that is being set up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110604	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110613	Thank you. The discussion about economics is always interesting, and of course the money also has to be taken care of, but perhaps as a society one should consider what it costs that so many children who have been affected by grief and grief later drop out of their educations and find it difficult to do a job • everything that we actually have figures on and well know about. It must of course also be included in the calculation of the total cost, and I think that, as a result of the fact that we have not systematized it here, we are talking about a level of cost which is much higher than what the concrete effort we are going to adopt here would entail. So the question to the Radical Left must be this: are you prepared here not only to look at the actual cost but also to look at it as a whole?
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110711	In the time I have been in the Folketing, I have been surprised that one does not look at the calculations of what it costs to invest in relation to the cost of saving. I understand it's hard for the Treasury to do these calculations. I myself am in a municipal council where we get the calculations in relation to making investments. So I would like to join in challenging us to get some figures on what it really costs not to make an effort, because I think it is really important that we use it as an element of the priority debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110748	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110750	In fact, we once had a strategy called "Invest before it happens," which was the guiding principle also for the municipalities. Perhaps the Ministry of Finance can learn a little bit from that. That's right. However, it is ultimately a question of political will, so it is we who are responsible for asking the calculations and on what conditions they are based. That is why it is only important that we have the same idea of what we are facing when we have to calculate the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110825	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110826	Well, I'm glad to hear that, sir. Jens Rohde has the same understanding of this problem. I guess it's not that unnatural either. We've been in the same party. We will take it into the debate and hope that we can find a common ground when it comes to that angle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110844	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. That is why we can move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113110852	Thank you for that, President, and thank you very much to the SF for raising this discussion. This is an incredibly important element in the whole debate on preventive action in Denmark, and it points to an issue that is well-known and well-lit. That is why, of course, it is also a task that we must undertake. It also points to the whole question of relatives in general. Here we are talking specifically about children as relatives, and it is also well known, as previous rapporteurs have said, that both in relation to children who are part of a family who are affected by a critical illness, for example. a cancer that causes you to lose a parent and in relation to children with a parent with a mental illness or abuse is a problem and a task that is not lifted. That is why I fully agree with the intention set out in the motion for a resolution, namely that the guidelines that exist should, of course, be enshrined in legislation. As a result, when I hear today's debate, I hear that there is a broad consensus on this. I can of course hear where this is going, and I just want to say that on the part of the Enhedslisten we can support the fact that this motion for a resolution means that we will have a working group which will also involve relevant organisations and that we will have a presentation drawn up. I do not have much concern about that, if it is true that they can deliver something here mid 2022. I think they can, because it's not rocket science. It is not new knowledge that needs to be sucked up. It is simply a question of using the knowledge that we already have and that it can then be translated into a legislative proposal which can be put forward in October. In fact, I think that would be sensible. I think this is primarily for one reason, because in relation to this proposal we still need to clarify the economy. It is not because the economy is going to stand in the way of our support for it. We're gonna back it up. However, I think it is an excellent principle that, when we make legislation in here, which may be the bearer of expenditure, this proposal may be, and that is also why funds have been allocated to it in some pools in the past, and that is why funds have been set aside in the Finance Act, but it is only temporary funds that have been clarified so that we can identify what this is all about, so that we can ensure that those we impose the expense are also compensated for it. In this case, it will be either the municipalities or the regions. How big the amount is and how much exactly it's about, we're gonna have to figure it out. However, we must at least ensure that we do not stand in here making legislation which imposes an expense on some people that we do not finance. In fact, I think it is fair and crucial that, when we make legislation, we also ensure that those who we entrust to the task are compensated for the costs that would then follow. When the current guidelines are not followed, part of it may be due to ignorance. Of course, legislation can help to help • but it may also be because there are some financial costs associated with it, or at least some resource priorities, which make you downgrade tasks that you are not legally obliged to solve. That is why I think it makes sense for funds to be included when we adopt this kind of thing. In this context, one might wonder why we should have that debate when it comes to preventive measures, because I have no doubt that what the SF also writes in the motion for a resolution, namely that the project can benefit from it, is quite correct, and I think that is correct. It merely underlines that when we discuss the preventive measures, it is an obstacle that we have the economic approach, which also prevails in the Ministry of Finance, namely that preventive measures are always the driving force, because they are not in the long term. It just doesn't change the fact that when we adopt preventive action in here, it costs. We just have to acknowledge that. I think we should try to incorporate this into the thinking of the Ministry of Finance. However, we fully support the intentions of the proposal, and I think it would be good if we could reach agreement in committee on a report requiring the government to set up that working group and that it will deliver as early as the summer and that this could lead to a legislative proposal coming in the next session. If that doesn't happen, then we have to impose on the government that it's going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111340	Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111343	It is clear that you also need to know the economy when you make a legislative proposal. This is only a motion for a resolution. This is a fine enough principle, and especially with what the rapporteur says at the end of the day, that you also include what it costs to avoid. That's what Mr. Mr Rohde referred to the rapporteur of the Radicals. I am also actually wondering: is this something that we can then get a guarantee from the Enhedslisten that we will never ever put forward a resolution in this Parliamentary Assembly on the part of the Enhedslisten, which does not know exactly what the economic consequences are?
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111425	Yeah, that's kind of a principle we're following. When we make proposals, we find funding for it. Then there may be parties that disagree with that funding, but I think it is now I could mention the Conservatives, because I often think it is a vice that lies with them: that resolutions are tabled that are not funded. I always think we should point to funding when tabling motions for resolutions. There is also an arrow pointing to ourselves when we say if you're going to stay in mr. Jens Rohde's imagery that we're not gonna kick this ball to the finish line. I recognise that the SF has raised this in the Finance Act negotiations. We could have ensured that there were permanent means. We could also have ensured in the SSA negotiations that we set aside permanent funds for this. I think it is an excellent principle that when we impose an expense on others, we point out that this funding must be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111516	Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111517	It is true that SF could have been given a little more support in the budget negotiations, so that a larger amount and a more lasting amount had been allocated. That is absolutely correct. However, funding has actually been allocated, among other things. The scope, which I think Enhedslisten also sometimes uses as a source of funding for his motions for resolutions. What is correct is that there is no precise amount, but it is not rare in resolutions that the exact amount is not known because we do not have the calculators to figure it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111553	I just think it makes sense when we adopt a motion for a resolution which could entail an increase in the cost of either municipalities or regions, that we will then also bring the money and can point out and ensure that the funding is in place, and I look forward to working in this working group also being able to give an indication of what this is about, because it is also about what municipalities and regions should then be compensated for in the economic negotiations. So I just think it is good that we get it in place and then I think I have indicated that it is not the funding that stands in the way of this. I'd like a more precise estimate of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111628	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111629	I would like to extend my general thanks to Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund to always make balanced and objective views in the debate, whether we are talking about corona or we are talking about this. I think that's charitable. It suits Enhedslisten very well, and the Danish Parliament generally looks good on a receipt for it. But it follows, when we discuss this, that it triggers dut • it does when we impose anything on municipalities. And, of course, we have to find funding for it in the Finance Act. But the fact that it is a resolution now is simply that we give each other an undertaking that we will do the same when we sit down at the negotiating table on the next financial law. In other words, we are at least a step further if we all give the undertaking that we will pay the money it may cost. So that's what I want to hear about Enhedslisten I think I know the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111738	Thank you. And now we get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111740	Thank you. And thank you for your kind expressions. I appreciate those, even when they're from Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde. But it is clear that municipalities and regions must be dut'ed for what must come, and that must lie in the economic negotiations. And of course there is also in this proposal that Mrs Trine Torp says that the room for manoeuvre has been pointed out. I just think it is an excellent principle when we adopt resolutions that we also know what an economic framework is. And it may also reflect a little the will of the various political parties to give priority to this area. But I'm not worried about the funding. So, I do not think it will be a large amount of money and, as I said, I have no doubt that this is an amount that will socio-economically turn into a surplus business when we invest in prevention. But, as I have said, with the statements I have heard, I am also from the government and, incidentally, from the Left, in relation to the fact that this is something we have to bear through, in a relatively confident way, that it is happening. And then let's get this proposal qualified.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111843	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111844	Yes, yes, and at least you can't charge SF that they haven't done it. Maybe it's a shortcoming in the rest of us. In the SSA negotiations, we tried to allocate 9 million. kr. annual. It could then be 2.5 million. kr., and that is because there are many priorities, and we must understand that. But that is why it is important that we agree in here that what I said in the first place is perhaps one of the most important resolutions in this Assembly and that we therefore jointly prioritise it and thus finance it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111923	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113111925	I totally agree with that, and of course this ball needs to be kicked in target to stay in that picture. My point is that, when we recognise that there is funding for it, let us find that funding, and then let us stand by it, rather than finding temporary funds in some financial law negotiations and then say that they must be made permanent by means of a resolution. In other words, let us just keep that objective in mind that if it is economical, let us find the funding and let us recognise that it is there and then let us make sure that the funds come out to those we are assigning to this task. And I think that is what we need to clarify in the work that is going to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113112000	Thank you, sir. Peder Hvelplund. There are no more brief comments. Sir. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113112020	Thank you for that, President. Every child in this country deserves a safe upbringing without major challenges. That is why I would also like to thank the Socialist People's Party for raising this important issue. We must ensure that risky children are taken care of, whether they are children who have lost a parent or a close relative, or children who live in a family where mother or father or siblings have a critical illness, perhaps living in a family with a family with severe mental illness or living in a family with drug abuse or otherwise living in a family with severe and severe problems. Where I am in doubt is in relation to the offers that currently exist. And that's why it's interesting to find out how fine the network is or how big the gaps in the network are. How many people are being caught and how many are being caught in relation to those who are at risk? I agree, of course, that a working group is being set up that is fast-working and that the area is being analysed so that we can have a complete overview. It calls for speed, which is why there must of course also be a deadline. Now there is probably a consensus that it should be before we get out of the summer break, and I think that is quite reasonable, because otherwise it will just become something that will not be so serious. So let us have a fast-working group set up with a deadline so that we can move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113112205	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Sir. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113112230	Thank you. I am quite sure that the assembly here is familiar with the late Inger Christensen's collection of poems called it and I simply cannot help but return to just one verse that pops up at the beginning of today's debate. That's the third verse, and the introduction you must think about, but it says here: Inside the first institution there is another, inside the second there is a third, inside the third one a fourth etc. institution / institution nr. 3517 all the definitive abnormal/institution no. 1423 individuals who have said that the abnormal are normal / Male no. 8611 has always been a community / At the end of all the united institutions there is an expert committee. It is with the expert committee. After all, we are good at reducing them, and there are good arguments for this, because of course we must think about it when we legislate. So I have not so much against the Minister's speech, it is fine that we are now setting a deadline and that we are setting some binding or rather commitments for each other to be dealt with here. Economically, too. And if we can then look each other in the eye and say that yes, that is so important, so of course we finance that in the next Finance Act, then we have gone much further than we have been in the last 10 years, when this has been discussed over and over again, if not, the recommendations that we know and have known for too long, must be systematized into the law, so that hospital managers actually know what to ask about how to handle it and that we also rust our healthcare professionals to handle it professionally. After all, it is not everyone who is able to deal psychologically with the challenges that are here. That's why the systematization is so important on something like this. I am basically liberal, so I am not usually too crazy about institutionalisation, but right here I think the important thing is that we recognise that institutionalisation needs to be done so that we can carry out this task. That is why thank you, thank you, thank you to the SF for bringing it up in this Chamber today, but also for being those who, during the budget negotiations, carried it here and carried it to the table, thanks for the persistence, and we could not dream of in the KD not supporting this resolution, which is so important and so right. And when it comes to funding, we have it in place, because we actually have a 2030 plan that invests 15 billion. kr. in our health care and in our psychiatry, and there you can find some money for this. For, of course, the economy must be there, the money must be there, but so do they, because it is a political priority. So in these words, with thanks, there is support for the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113112640	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There are no brief comments. The rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113112705	Thank you. Thank you for a very good debate, thank you for the seriousness of this issue and the great willingness to do something important in this area. I just think there's a complete consensus on that in this room. I believe that where there are enough differences is where our patience is. At least that's the feeling I get. First of all, many thanks to Mr. Jens Rohde, who is just as impatient as I am, and who therefore supports one hundred percent of the resolution and the intention that this is not just a matter of building up and building next door, all that we are doing now, gathering it together and coordinating it, but actually committing ourselves, each other, those out there, not to overlook the children who are part of a family where the disease, drug addiction, the mental illness are going to fill so much that the children disappear, the children are being overlooked, and the most common survival strategy is either to become invisible and not difficult, because there is enough to do in that family, or to be so difficult that it creates a lot of problems in all sorts of other places. What is crucial for us to make this proposal is not to overrule all the good things that are, the competence centre, which benefits North Jutland and the Capital Region, but not the rest of the country, nor is it to overrule the fine legislation we have in the area of service law, which makes it necessary to carry out a child-care study if you are concerned about the well-being of a child, but it is just legislation that is coming too late. It doesn't come until you have seen the signs of dissatisfaction, but it doesn't come where you think it must be quite natural that, whatever family you are, you need someone to ask about your family. Since there is one person in the family, for whom the problems fill everything, there is a need for someone to ask: How is it with the rest of the family, by the way, how is it with them? How do you talk to them about the serious illness you have, the psychic disorder you're in the middle of? How do you talk about it? Do you need help with how you can talk about it? After all, it is at the very, very early preventive level. That is not where major measures need to be taken, but it is where we need to have a systematic approach to it. Because I understand that if you stand as a nurse in a cancer ward and for example... has to do with very, very sick adults, not necessarily aware of these things. Because you focus on what you are employed for, your main task, your core task, and that's not because you don't think the other is important, but it disappears a little, and that's why you need the system to remind you: Hi, it's not just a person with a disease, but it's a person with relationships, with a life outside this hospital that's supposed to work. That's why there's this whole thing about making it more binding. I am a great advocate of making good recommendations, and I really think that the recommendations that are now 10 years old are fantastic. There is a lot of good goods in it, which is why I do not think the jump is that far. What is the problem with it today is that the recommendations are not known, that they are not used, and maybe they are not put into a system that makes it easy to go to. Perhaps it is not supported enough by some helping features, e.g. relatives counselors, some who can say something to the health worker who is thinking how to actually take this conversation, how to talk to them about it. It is not because they have to be therapists for the family, for the children, for someone, but they have to get into that dialogue, and it is not certain that it is so easy if what you are used to in everyday life is doing something quite different. That is what we want to commit each other to. I would like to thank everyone for their support for this intention, and I also think that the government's proposal for a working group is fine. I really think that there should be a lot of legislation, but I just can't believe that it stands in the way of us already handing each other over that this requires legislative changes. We don't know exactly how they're supposed to be designed. That's what we have good officials in the ministries to draft, but there's a need for legislation in this area, and I'm a little upset that we can't take that extra step. Because I know that the working group will be working quickly and that it will make some recommendations and that we will then have to find out how and how, but I am a little afraid that there will be some time for that, and is anyone following up on it at all? It is quite true that we have tried to kick this agenda off several laps and among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of the Finance Act negotiations, we could not go further than the allocation of 5 million. kr. in 2023, 2024 and 2025, because no one else thought it important, and there it is, after all, that I am trying to bring together the rapporteurs in this Parliament hall, bringing together the parties to say that this is one of the most important preventive work we can do, is this. For as the Minister also began by saying, every day there are five children who lose one of their parents, almost 35,000 children experience each year that their mother or father is hospitalized with a critical illness, up to 300,000 children grow up in families with a mental illness and 122,000 children live in families with drug problems. It is a great many children whose everyday lives have really difficult conditions compared to those of others, and they are unfortunately also children for whom it can have incredibly serious and long-term consequences if they are not met with the right help. That is why I would like to say to the question of the economy that it always costs something, of course, but that I also know very well that we will not get an answer as to what it saves us to do it, because that is not how our system is arranged. If you ask the Ministry of Finance what you would save if you posted 40 million. kr. Every year into this area and to make this commitment, you don't get an answer to it. That is also what I think is the problem with some of these initiatives, i.e. that things are stalling there. What is obvious, that it is of course a saving to make an investment here, then becomes a question of how we should finance the expenditure that is, and that is just to return to what I also asked the Minister in my question to him. The Minister also said so wisely at the meeting of the people that this is not a question of what it costs, but of what it is we are saving, and that is why I think it is such a pity that something like this goes on. And I fully agree that it is not certain that the resolution that we have drafted is quite precisely designed so that you can just copy-paste it into a legislative proposal, but that is also why it is a motion for a resolution that the government is required to make it here. But what I want to take with me, apart from the fact that some have given their hundred per cent support, is that most parties agree with the government that there must be a working group before deciding whether to make legislative commitments, and I have to take note of that that is not the case. On the other hand, of course, I would like to take a very constructive view not only of the fact that this working group should be quick-working, but that it is also a little important what it is that we are giving it. For what is it that we want there to be and to be ready for political decisions afterwards? And I would like the working party to operate on the basis that it is a basic requirement, but I look forward to the continued work on this motion for a resolution in committee, and I would like to thank you for a good debate and for the seriousness that the rapporteurs also place on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113113644	Well, we're not quite finished yet, then, because sir. Peder Hvelplund has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113113650	Thank you. That is perhaps as much a comment as it is a question. I think and have indicated that it is very commendable that the SF is raising this question debate, and I also think I have indicated that we support it. I get a little irritated when the rapporteur says that it is because there are no other parties that think it is important in the financial law negotiations. This does not mean that we do not think it is important; it does not mean that the SF does not think it is important if we have not secured permanent funds, because that is the case in a budget debate. And there we stand together about a single financial law, and there has been support for this. It is true that it is a matter of priorities, but one could also have prioritised differently and made it a key requirement, and then it would probably have come through. That's one thing. In relation to the second point about preventive initiatives, I am completely in that this is a question of what it costs not to do, and therefore it is not a limitation for us to have figures from the Ministry of Finance on what we are making of this effort. It is simply a question of what kind of specific expenditure we are imposing on municipalities or regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113113753	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113113754	Well, thank you. And I also heard that the Enhedslisten rapporteur said in the answers to the questions, that it was not essential for Enhedslisten what this was going to cost, but that one would like to have clarity about it and that of course I think it is quite fine. I would like that too; I would also like to know what you think you should put in it in the first place. Well, I just think it just became very clear to me that it's probably the main knuckle. This is where you do not have a precise amount of money, and I have to say that I have seen many motions for resolutions from the Enhedslisten in this Parliament, where you have not had a precise amount of money on the proposal without, I think, having to sweep it off the table in that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113113850	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, and that is why we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220113113906	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 18 January at 2.30 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. And I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
