ParlaMint-DK_20220118130001	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 66 (Proposal for a decision of Parliament to make it a criminal offence to obstruct cases of parental responsibility and association and to impose an adverse effect on the conduct of family law). Susan Kronborg (RV) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 67 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the citizenship of young people born and raised in Denmark). Eva Flyvholm (EL) and Jens Rohde (KD): Request no. F 26 (What will the government do to ensure the journalistic freedom of the Danish press in the light of the Danish intelligence services' tour with warnings from several editors and the summoning of a larger number of journalists as witnesses in connection with allegations of employee leaks of confidential information?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). Members of the Folketing Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen (SF) and others. I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following motions for resolutions: motion for a resolution on the right to a basic business account for economic operators. B 27). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed. Members of the Folketing Stén Knuth (V) and others have informed me that they wish to withdraw the following request to the Minister for Children and Education: • Will the Minister state whether the government is satisfied with the extent of movement in the primary school, including whether the Minister intends to lift the 45-minute movement requirement, or whether the Minister will otherwise ensure that 45-minute movement is implemented so that all pupils get it and, if so, how? • F 2). The question has now been dropped. The Epidemic Committee has presented: Report on the possibility of theatres, cinemas, venues, sports halls, etc. to reopen with sections a 500 seated persons on 13 January 2022. 6). Report on the processing guarantee, etc. on 17 January 2022. 7. The reports will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. above). Then I shall announce that it will be a short day for us in the Folketing today. Most of it has been cancelled and everything is corona-related, including the debate between party leaders. This means that we are now going to the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20220118130215	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 26 by Jep Bruus (S), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Martin Lidegaard (RV), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 43 (S, SF and RV), against 53 (V, DF, EL, KF, NB, LA, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 26 has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. V 25 by Martin Geertsen (V), Liselott Blixt (DF), Per Larsen (KF), Lars Boje Mathiesen (NB) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 46 (V, DF, KF, NB, LA and FG), against 51 (S, SF, RV, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 25 has been rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 27 of Peder Hvelplund (EL), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 10 (EL, FG and ALT), against 88 (S, V, DF, SF, RV, KF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 27 is rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220118130419	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220118130438	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220118130443	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of NB and LA) that the draft law is divided into two legislative proposals? Proposal for a law amending the Health Act (Mellemkommunal reimbursement for municipal health care to citizens on social housing offers, etc.) B. Draft law amending the law on electronic cigarettes, etc. and the Law on Tobacco Products, etc. Law on tobacco products, etc.] The division of the bill has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 and 3, elected by a majority (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF and FG)? They are adopted. The draft law referred to in B shall then be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4, joined by a majority (S, V, DF, SF, RV, EL, KF and FG)? It's agreed. I propose that the proposal referred to in A be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. I propose that the proposal referred to in B go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220118130534	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220118130539	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-9, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of NB)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220118130600	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 19 January 2022, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
