ParlaMint-DK_20220211100003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Susan Zim (FG) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 90 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a biodiversity law). Lotte Rod (RV) and Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV): Request no. F 31 (How does the government view pupils' opportunities to contribute at school, including in connection with animals, theatre, community songs, workshops, etc., and how will the government commit schools to promoting communities while at the same time setting schools free from rules?). Uffe Elbæk (FG) and others: Question No. F 32 (Will the Foreign Minister explain the government's position on the massive political and economic pressure that Lithuania is experiencing from the Chinese side because of the country's permission for Taipei's representation office to change its name to the Taiwan representation office, and what concrete action has the government and the EU taken to back Lithuania in the extremely sensitive and serious political and economic situation in which it finds itself?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above)). Members of the Danish Parliament Pia Kjærsgaard (DF) etc. I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the statute for a regional and municipal office. 49). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211100054	The debate is open. The Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211100120	Thank you. We are starting today by discussing this motion for a resolution from the Conservatives on a voluntary electronic age verification for shops and imposing a ban on what is termed proxy sales. So there are two elements in the proposal: one is a voluntary electronic age verification for shops so that minors cannot buy tobacco, alcohol and other products with age limitation, and the government must then ensure the necessary framework for the stores to voluntarily have a system where they can electronically get age-verified transactions with Dankort and the like, so that minors are automatically rejected if they try to buy these products for which they are not old enough. The second element is this ban on what is termed proxy sales, i.e. you get a fine if you buy tobacco on behalf of a minor. The proposal quite rightly states that very many young people today have access to tobacco and alcohol and other old-age products, even though they are not old enough to buy these products. So I have to say that the problem we are trying to solve is a very real problem. According to the authors of the proposal, this proposal may prevent minors from buying, for example: tobacco, for which they are not old enough. So I would like to begin by thanking the Conservative People's Party for putting this on the agenda. It is necessary that we all constantly contribute to the discussion on how we can solve the challenge of sales to minors and this consumption, which is still at a high level too high. This is an important public health agenda and it is absolutely essential to ensure effective enforcement of the rules, for example. age limits, and I must also say that I also recognise the need to strengthen efforts. So it was about the scale of the problem and the intention of the proposal. So let us look at the proposal itself. Is that a good solution? Will it solve the problems? Let's try to focus on that. Electronic age verification was, in fact, an issue that we discussed during the debates held by all parties in the Folketing on the national action plan against children and young people's smoking. Not everyone was involved, but almost all the parties were involved in the agreement itself, and precisely this was one of the things we discussed. That discussion ended after we went deep into the issue that we did not go ahead with it at the time because we could identify a number of problems with the model. I think that our task now is to say: are these problems still gone or are they resolved? Because, as I said, the intention and the problem are both real enough. So let's focus on whether the problems with the model are still there. Overall, there were four factors that made the electronic age verification even though it might sound good and there was a real problem that didn't solve the problem, and let me take the four from the end of. First of all, in this scheme there are many possibilities to bypass, evasive. There are simply many gaps in it, for example. payment with cash. If you buy your cigarette pack with cash or use other people's cards or pay with foreign issued cards, you can't check it out. Those are problems, and these are gaps that still exist. In addition, it is the government's understanding, following a dialogue with Finans Danmark and Nets, that the proposed solution cannot immediately include all mobile payment solutions. We know that I also believe that this has happened since we last discussed the fact that there are even more mobile payment options. You pay things with different apps and other things, and especially young people probably use it even more, but it really is something that is gaining ground here, and there are therefore also gaps here in relation to it. Specifically, Nets has stated that they consider that the proposed solution today could work with Apple Pay, but not with Google Pay, nor with MobilePay. There are a lot of people who use either cash or Google Pay or MobilePay, and then that won't be possible. So that alone, I think, is some very serious gaps, which means that the professional judgement is that in practice there will be no restriction on the purchase of tobacco, alcohol, etc. by minors. Let us imagine someone who was not allowed to do so, someone who is under the age of 18, who wants to buy cigarettes and has had this abuse of cigarettes. I wonder if the person could figure out how to take cash with or use MobilePay or use the other giant holes that are in it? I'm afraid that's what I'm afraid of. That's one thing. The second problem, which was then, and which, if we are to assess that it is still there, is that Nets considers that the system can only be used when and if it is voluntary business gets an integrated solution, that is. integration between the short-term terminal and the cashier system. In practice, this would probably mean that, for example, the scheme in the United Kingdom would have to be adapted to the new situation. small kiosks from the outset will not work. It is in my experience, it is not something I have studies that document, but my personal experience and from what I hear from people is that there are at least some of the small kiosks who are not so good at complying with this in advance, and here the solution would not even work as a starting point. Here, too, there is a pretty big hole. Thirdly, electronic age verification may give rise to false security. If the cashier is counting on the system to take care of everything, well, there's a system for this mostly, then situations will arise, one might fear where no image ID is asked, even if one should do so. And that should be done because there are these massive circumvention possibilities, the use of other people's cards, MobilePay, etc. So there's still a need to ask for image ID. The debate shows that this does not have to be done, but it still has to be done away with when there are such marked, large gaps. Fourthly, electronic age verification may distort where the burden is placed in relation to regulatory responsibilities. This is a little bit more of a technicality, but of course we need to have all aspects on the table. The scheme will require banks to share customers' personal data with both Nets and with shops, and although the proposal states that the stores that join will have to pay for the scheme, some of the burden of age verification is passed on to the banks, and it is unclear how in practice it is possible to ensure that the shops that choose to join bear the entire cost. If banks are to be able to pass on personal data automatically without the consent of their customers, it will also require a new legal basis. In addition, the scheme will probably require the stores to pass on payment information to the age verification system and to the customer's bank, and this will require a change in the payment law for the transfer of payment information from stores to the age verification system, what may be developed, and to the banks. Therefore, requirements for the transmission of both personal data and payment data will be relatively far-reaching, also in the light of the circumvention possibilities that will be massive. So that's the element here. I think we have to conclude that the problems have not been solved; on the contrary, technological developments in new forms of payment have made the gaps that were perhaps only increased. Then there is the second element: a ban on what is called proxy sales. Again it is a real problem and the intention is also real and also good, so I share the view of the problem and the view of the intention behind the proposal. Let us now look at the proposal itself here. It is, in fact, difficult to clearly conclude whether there is already a ban on proxy sales in the interpretation of the various existing legislations, and therefore it is good that we get that table. At any rate, we in the Ministry of Health would like to make an agreement to analyse it in greater detail. It is not clear from this proposal how a possible new ban on proxy sales is to be enforced and financed and where the limit goes, for example. the question of whether parents can buy for their children, i.e. whether there is a legal limit there. So there are a number of things about this proposal that make the problem real, the intention is good, but there are big gaps, so it doesn't have the intended effect. However, I would like to say that with the government's side we agree with the intentions, and the problem is also there. We received new figures from the Danish Health Authority last Wednesday from a new study that shows that 65.5%. of the 15-17-year-old users of non-smoking nicotine products themselves buy it in stores, although it is illegal to sell to minors. That is all, too many, and we must find sustainable solutions. It is only by this that the solutions we find must also be those that work in the real world. There's, of course, some economy in this, too. If you impose financial burdens on business, and that is the banks in this case, then I also believe that we have a duty to ensure that this is also something that solves some problems and not something that has so much gaps as this proposal has. I would very much like to look into this in the committee's work and if we can resolve some of the problems, it can also help to influence our view of it, and that is perhaps the way many people feel. But here and now there are some gigantic holes that make you have to ask, even if it feels good, and even if it is well communicated, whether it can work in practice, and it can hardly do so. So we're just gonna let it go? Of course, I don't think we should. I think that the figures I have just mentioned speak their clear language. The Ministry of Health, together with the Ministry of Business and Industry, is looking at possible solutions in relation to age verification in online trade as a follow-up to the political agreements on an action plan against smoking by children and young people and interventions against the abuse of nitrous oxide, where we also had some similar issues, and there is something in relation to online trade that we can address, so we are looking at some of that. At the same time, I can tell you that in the forthcoming negotiations on an alcohol trading plan, the government is also preparing to discuss the action in relation to sales to minors, and we will also look into the existing legislation in relation to the ban on proxy sales. We're going to follow this area very, very closely. This is a very important area for public health. So thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting this proposal on the table and for allowing us to analyse whether or not some things have happened that make it relevant now. I do not think we can conclude anything on that, at least not unequivocally, but let us look into it further. The way it is right now and here, I think it has too big holes in it for us to take down from the shelf. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211101329	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211101332	Thank you, sir. Minister. I am glad that the Minister recognises the problem, because we know that there is huge sales to young people that should not take place. Alcohol & Society has experimented with mysterieshoppers and has found that young people were able to buy goods that they were otherwise not allowed to buy legally in 82 out of 110 stores. This is a major problem and involves young people as young as 13 years of age. When you have such a big problem, I think that somewhere else it should also impress the Minister that it is the traders themselves who have proposed it. In fact, it is the combined merchants who have proposed it. In addition, there has been great support from the large chains, i.e. Coop, Salling Group, 7-Eleven and other players in the market, which represent at least 3,000 shops. They even say: There is a deep desire on our part to improve the working conditions of our many employees, who often meet with real discomfort from customers. Doesn't that impress the Minister? I can see that the Minister has consulted only with the Nets and the financial sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211101444	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211101445	Yes, it does, but unfortunately it is so wrong if they have been given the impression that such a proposal here would mean that their employees should not be asked for image ID. If that is what you think will happen with this proposal and are happy with it, then I understand, because it is a great task and an unpleasant task, but it is far from being the case. If it's the case that you think that with this proposal you shouldn't ask for photo ID, what about the people who pay with MobilePay or have a foreign debit card or have this Google Pay where this won't work with the huge holes that are in it? That proves, unfortunately, that it will provide false security and that it will mean that you will not be asked for image ID, and this is not actually just such a symbolic law that does not really work. Then it will actually be something that moves in the wrong direction, because then there will be fewer people being asked about image ID, and more of the young people who do not consent to seeing their age or using the other options, and then there are gaps.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211101551	Sir. Per Larsen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211101553	As I read it, it is actually the case that cash among young people is almost non-existent. So if it is the case that a 13-year-old comes into a store and pays with cash, then it might well be that it increased the attention of the person sitting at the box. I think that these are rather strange arguments put forward by the Minister, for example. points out to the Minister that the financial sector will be burdened. However, the financial sector has already been ordered, for example, to guard against money laundering, and this is a huge piece of work, and it is in the same way with the financing of terrorism, which the financial sector must also guard against. This is a small task compared to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211101634	Then we get an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211101634-2	Yeah, yeah, and that's not my main argument either. The main question is quite clear: is this helping something, or are we actually creating some gaps that you are not aware of because you think this is something that actually works but that gives you false security? There is one thing about cash, and I think it is actually true what Mr. Per Larsen mentions about the young people, but what about those who have a foreign debit card or have not given consent to seeing their age, or who use MobilePay or some of the other solutions that make this not work?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211101709	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line. I mean, it's voluntary to get drunk, but it's a good thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211101733	Thank you. To begin with, I would like to thank the Conservative People's Party for highlighting an important issue, namely the control of the age limits for the purchase of, for example, alcohol and tobacco, which we are setting here in the Folketing. I will start with the positive part, because I fully agree with the intention to step up efforts, and we should not have talked to many young people to know that it is certainly not a problem for minors to get ahold of alcohol or tobacco for that matter today. We also regularly read stories from the media about how minors have been able to obtain alcohol without difficulty. That is where the media, for example, have used mysterieshoppers to document how big the problem is. Alcohol and Society carried out a large sample survey some years ago which showed that 93 out of 132 visited supermarkets, shops and kiosks and gas stations sold alcohol to minors without requiring valid ID. And the problem is big. We also talked about the problem a few years ago when we made a plan for action against children and young people's smoking, and it was also there that a majority in the Folketing agreed to tighten up the penalties in the form of significantly higher fines for the shops selling tobacco to children and young people under 18 years of age. Having said all that, I also agree that we have not solved the problem today, and now I come to the less positive part which concerns the specific proposal. Although I think it is commendable in every way to think creatively and try to make some solutions that can solve this problem, there are a whole series of problems with this proposal. Because although the proposal for electronic age verification sounds very familiar, there are several practical reasons why it is simply difficult to see that this should work in practice and have a really positive effect, perhaps at worst the opposite. There are simply too many opportunities to bypass it. First of all, it is in the proposal that the scheme should be voluntary. So it will only be some shops that participate if they actively want to. In addition, there will also be many small shops where the scheme simply cannot be implemented, i.e. which will not be covered by this at all. The scheme covers only a few forms of payment, i.e. Dankort, and so we also know that many people pay with cash or electronic solutions, such as MobilePay, it may be that cash is not the big hit among young people, but it is MobilePay and other electronic payment solutions in return. And if you have decided that you want to buy alcohol or tobacco for that matter, will you not just make use of it? So if this proposal actually works, if we like to think a little out of the box, then in Denmark we should only be able to buy alcohol and tobacco with Dankort and for example. Apple Pay. I don't think that's the way forward. After all, the scheme will also have to be introduced in cooperation with the banks. Finans Danmark has also identified a number of practical and economic challenges, including: that MobilePay, Apple Pay and Google Pay simply cannot be included, i.e. those schemes that bypass ordinary debit cards cannot be included. It is important for me to make it clear that it is now the responsibility of the shops, to whom they sell alcohol and tobacco, and that it will always be so, no matter what electronic solution one chooses to use. And when the scheme has so many opportunities to be watered down, I simply find it difficult to see the value of the parliament imposing on the government to use energy to make such a model and to impose on the banks to spend money making such a model, which unfortunately will only create a false security. So, instead of using the strength of the forthcoming negotiations on an alcohol trading plan, let us find ways to enforce age limits more effectively and ensure that they have consequences for those who break the rules. So the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal here, but look forward to discussing the issue and are very willing to resolve it here in future negotiations on an alcohol trading plan. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211102218	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211102220	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am tempted to ask the question: does the rapporteur think it will be easier to buy alcohol and tobacco with this proposal here, or does the rapporteur think it will be harder if this proposal is implemented in over 3 000 shops in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211102240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211102242	I think it will be as easy as it is today, unfortunately. If the Folketing chooses to implement this proposal, it will be as easy tomorrow as it is today; and unfortunately it is very, very easy. And it will also be very easy with this proposal for a minor to choose either one of the many kiosks that are not covered by the scheme, or pay with MobilePay or pay in cash. It may be that young people do not run around with a lot of cash, as we old people do, but it is not so difficult to find a Dankortterminal right in front of the kiosk, withdraw the money to be raised, and then go in and pay, so you avoid this system. So this proposal has all sorts of good intentions, but it is completely hollow as a sieve and is unfortunately not something that will have any positive health effect at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211102339	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211102341	So let me turn it in a different direction. H.K. supports this proposal, except for the fact that it has to be voluntary. HK Trade wants it to be forced through. They will do so on the basis of a survey they have carried out, where 68 per cent. of the employees interviewed report that they have been counted ugly and derogatory by customers, 13%. has experienced being threatened by customers, and 5 per cent. have been subjected to direct physical violence. Does it not impress the Socialist rapporteur that the employees have so much difficulty in enforcing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211102413	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211102414	Yes, it does. Of course, this makes a big impression, but this proposal is not going to help any of those employees. There will be exactly the same conflicts and there will be exactly the same control. HK is right that if you're gonna do this I don't think it's the right way to do it if it's not gonna be the hole like a sieve, and if you're not just gonna pick the kiosks that don't want to be part of the scheme, then you're gonna have to do it consistently. So I think the proposal would have made more sense if we did it consistently, but there would still be a lot of kiosks who simply could not be part of this scheme because they are unfortunately too small.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211102448	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Sir. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211102458	Thank you very much for the floor, and thank you to the Conservative People's Party and Mr. Per Larsen to raise this debate. In fact, I think it is a very interesting motion for a resolution on how we can make it easier to comply with the current legislation on age limits, among other things. the sale of alcohol and tobacco. I must also say to Mr. Per Larsen, that we and I actually at first glance felt very attracted to the proposal. In other words, it seems very simple and straightforward: check the kids' cards down at the store, and we have actually quite easily eradicated a quite significant proportion of the problems of selling cigarettes and alcohol to minors. And then, as far as our common plan for action against children and young people's smoking is concerned, we also agree to look at various forms of technological measures in relation to preventing children and young people from buying and, as a result, smoking cigarettes. However, I must also say that Mr. Per Larsen that there are, I think, a number of dilemmas associated with the motion for a resolution, in which it may well require that we grow a little further into it. As others have also mentioned, there will remain a great many ways to easily bypass an age-verification of the well-known Danish maps, for example. by paying with cash, as others have also highlighted. And the same goes for the use of foreign cards, which I understand is growing, not least because of the so-called neobanks. And there I would say that I personally am not quite anything yet, but I understand that the younger generation is. There are also a large number of mobile payment methods that will challenge this solution. You can, for example. Bypass age verification through MobilePay and Google Pay, which is why it will not only be when young people pay with cash that the cashier must remember to ask for ID, but also sometimes when paid with cards. Another problem that will probably arise from this model is that the existing legislation, as I understand it, requires the explicit consent of each bank customer if stores are to age-verify or say in Danish: You have to accept that stores have to check how old you are. And when you are over 15, you will also have to give your consent, not your parents. And now I cannot and cannot speak on behalf of all young people in Denmark, but I can say from experience that if I were 16 years old and wanted to buy hard spirits or tobacco, I would probably consider such consent. Therefore, one might also fear that this proposal could end up having the reverse effect of the desired, as it may in fact risk providing a false security for the retail trade, thereby beginning to control less in the old-fashioned way with the check of IDs. Finally, it may also be a little difficult to assess on a stand-by basis the appropriateness of making the scheme only voluntary for the retail trade. Then this proposal is also about making proxy sales illegal. And that is not because I think that in any way one should be allowed to do one's own little business or business out of selling alcohol and tobacco to minors, but I think that there are some rather important and fundamental issues here, which I think we need to delve a little further into. I think the Minister also mentioned this a little. It has to be done, for example. be illegal for a father to ask for 20 kroner. for the two beers that he bought for his 15-year-old daughter and that she was going to bring to the party? Well, I can say that for my own part is a problem that I have had a little in my body. How will such a law be enforced? These are some of the things that I think we need to use a little more effort to dive into. Well, now it's sir. Per Larsen, who entirely determines the future fate of this proposal in the parliamentary system. And if it ends with a vote in this Chamber, I would like to say immediately that we will have a little difficulty in voting in favour. However, I hope that instead of further examining the proposal, we may agree on a text or a report, as stated in the Parliament's lingo, where we agree to give a little impetus to further work on using technological solutions in order to avoid young people starting to smoke and to ensure that young people also have a healthy relationship with alcohol. For that must be the very purpose of this proposal, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211102950	Sir. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211102952	Thank you, sir. Martin Geertsen to take down some of the elements positively. Of course, we have an intention to limit the illegal purchases by young people of alcohol, tobacco and other goods that are illegal for them, so we will of course also be prepared to make some progress in this area. So thank you for that. As far as proxy sales are concerned, I have to say that I had also hoped that there was some kind of willingness to do so. After all, it is a question of someone explicitly making money from performing a service, and the trade between father and daughter or mother and daughter is probably outside that resort. So thank you for your speech, and we're still working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211103044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211103045	I acknowledge that remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211103051	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211103106	Thank you very much. I want to start by commending all the young people, because I think they are actually doing a very good job. At a time when they live in a oppressed society where they cannot act as they please, but that adults continue to impose demands, restrictions, bans on them, I think they are doing very well. Instead, I think that we should focus on a great many other things, which may prevent young people from resorting either to drugging with one or the other. When we were talking about the Smoking Act, I thought it sounded like a good presentation from the Cooperating Merchants, but when I hear the issues that are around it, I cannot see how we should set up such a large device and do something that is voluntary. There will be unequal competition, and those who have done so voluntarily will very quickly refrain from doing so, because then they will find out that they are going to go shopping with the neighbor next door. In fact, I think that we should stop tightening these bans and requirements, but that we should look at what we can do to stop young people doing what is illegal. We know that there is social inequality, and we need to get to grips with it, and then we need to ensure that there are alternatives to some of the things we buy. One of the things I fight hard for, for example, is that we can have alcohol-free drinks, etc. into a price, so it's just common. Well, I think it's completely ridiculous: if you go in and want to buy a beer, a regular beer costs 4 kr., and a non-alcoholic beer costs 6 kr. I understand that the young people say: 4 kroner. or 6 kroner.? If it were the same price, it might be that they chose some of what we want them to take instead of the other one. Well, I actually think they're doing a good job. We can see from the statistics that fewer people start smoking and so on. So sometimes I think we forget to praise the young. We know that if you have children, and you keep scolding and saying they're stupid, they're gonna be stupid, while, if we praise them and say they're actually doing very well, we're gonna have a positive effect instead. I am very pleased that the young people live healthier and better than we did when we were children, perhaps healthier than what we are doing today. Because I can see that there are a lot of adults, also with high positions, who can tell how they go out to Christmas parties and have to drink themselves in the fence, and then I understand that young people think that they want to. So we cannot support the proposal. It would've been easy if we just used a map everywhere. But we would also like to see you continue to have cash, that you have different payment options, in relation to not making life difficult for others. So we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211103403	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we can go further in the rapporteur's line. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211103420	Thank you. Children should not buy cigarettes, alcohol, medicines, games or other items reserved for adults. Nevertheless, the media can repeatedly report on how, with simple studies, they can see that children can buy products reserved for adults. Of course, the arrow points to the retail trade, which is why it is both sympathetic and understandable that you Co-operated Merchants propose verification of age via payment cards. However, as the Minister for Health has already explained, the proposed model is the hole as a sieve. The proposal will therefore hardly solve the problems of sales to minors. It also opposes the proposal that the scheme proposed should be voluntary. Unfortunately, this also means that that part of the retail trade, which does not already take the age limit seriously, can continue to sell adult products to children. I would actually like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the large part of the retail trade, which actually takes age limits seriously. The problem is not you, but those colleagues in the industry who don't care about the rules, and a solution must therefore also hit them exactly. I am still sorry that in the contract circle on the purchase of cigarettes by young people, we could not agree on an agreement on the control of the Security Authority. The terms of the National Security Agency regarding exposing illegal sales are poor. Unfortunately, there was no support for a proposal to use mystery jumpers. However, I am still of the opinion that fines and possibly bans on sales for those parts of the retail trade which cannot find out how to comply with the rules will be the most effective. SF supports the fight against the sale of adult products to children. However, we should not do this by making life more difficult for young people, but by making adults and the retail trade comply with the law. This proposal just doesn't solve that problem, which is why the SF doesn't support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211103636	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211103655	Thank you for the floor. The first big deal I helped negotiate after I was elected to parliament was the national action plan against smoking by children and young people, and that was back in December 2019. At that time, we took a number of significant steps against the biggest single threat to public health, namely smoking. The aim was and is that as few young people as possible should start smoking, and in the long term, of course, to ensure a smoke-free generation. We know that smoking increases the risk of a large number of serious diseases, which unfortunately can be seen in life expectancy and death rates. In the Radical Left we are very pleased with the steps we have taken, but it is no secret that we would have liked to have gone further. Today, we are going to discuss a resolution tabled by the Conservative People's Party to ensure the possibility of voluntary electronic age verification for purchases of age-limited goods in shops such as the Conservative Party. alcohol and tobacco. We also need to discuss a ban on proxy sales, where, for example, tobacco is bought for a minor. The recent study by the Danish Health Authority shows that about two thirds of the 15-17-year-olds they have talked to buy their nicotine products in physical shops, so it is quite obvious, as the Minister also mentioned, that we should have better opportunities for age control. Will such an arrangement, as Mr. Per Larsen suggests here, excluding all sales to minors? No, of course not, but in my view that would obviously limit it. Like so much else, it can be done if you want to, but in our view it should not rule out the possibility of using this tool. Several possible paths have been pointed out to inspire the young people who are watching. You can use cash, foreign cards, abuse other people's debit cards or use digital payment methods. It is quite clear that many young people will, of course, try to circumvent this solution if we introduce it. But that is also happening today, and that is certainly not an argument in itself for us not to do better than we are doing today. We know that most young people do not use cash, which means that in itself it will be a little suspicious and therefore also a good opportunity to ask for ID if the young person buys his cigarettes and pays with cash. It will also be an obvious reason if the person has deliberately not consented to age verification, to ask for ID. On the whole, I would like to see a much greater demand being made in the retail trade for ID when selling tobacco and alcohol. I would also venture to claim that most young people will probably not buy a foreign debit card in order to buy cigarettes in the local kiosk. Abusing others' cards is, of course, an option, as it is today, but there are a number of other risks to the model that will, after all, limit it. Then there are the electronic payment solutions • MobilePay has been mentioned several times and of course you can solve it. Of course, you can make an electronic solution so that an age verification is built into MobilePay. They already have access to a wide range of sensitive information, including our accounts and our transactions. And we give prior consent to a large number of things when we apply these solutions. Here I have enough faith that Nets and their talented programmers will be able to find a solution. After all, banks are already helping to solve a number of social tasks relating to terrorist financing and money laundering, so why not also public health with a relatively small grip? The ban on proxy sales has been said a few things about, and I think it is a sympathetic idea, but there are some details that we just need to discuss and get in place before we can unequivocally back that part. But we agree with the Conservatives when it comes to electronic age verification. It is not a perfect solution, and it is not a completely waterproof solution, but it is just like the other measures we have already taken on smoking a step in the right direction. It cannot stand alone, but it does not mean that it will not have an effect. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104059	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104101	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. In other words, there is a broad consensus among the rapporteurs that we have a problem and that, of course, it needs to be resolved. There is then no agreement that this particular proposal can help solve it. But one of the questions that, among other things, is: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while we were making the agreement on young people's smoking, the question was precisely to give the Danish Safety Authority muscle to manage control of the shops, that is to say those who sell the products, which are actually the sinners, in relation to the fact that we are not going to solve this problem, and one of the proposals was mysterieshoppers, which I understand the Radicals certainly did not support. But with the votes of the Radicals, there could actually have been a majority to give the Security Council muscle to handle it. Could the Radicals, with the very positive rapporteur's speech, consider whether it is now time to change their minds?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104154	Thank you. This is something I would very much like to join the group and discuss again. There have been a number of parliamentary events over the last few years, and I think it would be interesting to discuss this in the radical parliamentary group. Of course, I cannot promise anything here from the platform, but if there is a concrete proposal on coinage, that is something I would very much like to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104212	Thank you. Sir. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104214	I would like to take this opportunity, of course, to thank you for the constructive approach of the radical rapporteur. I think that is very positive. We have a huge problem that is unresolved. And it happens daily, all the time, and we need to find a solution so that children and young people are spared from buying alcohol and tobacco. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104239	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104239-2	Well, thank you, and I totally agree. As I said, it's not in either mine or in mr. Per Larsen's eyes, I guess, the solution
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104252	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104253	Thank you for that, and thank you for both the speech and the political will to really go to the steel here, so that we ensure that there are no shops that are illegal and in every way harmful to health, are allowed to make money filling liquor and tobacco in children and young people. So the whole focus of this is to make sure it doesn't happen, and when it happens, it has consequences, so we can prevent it in the future. I also hear the rapporteur say that there are gaps • I think the rapporteur said that it was not quite waterproof; I used the term hole as a sieve. So we certainly agree that this is probably not the super perfect solution. But the will is on the part of the Radicals, after all, because there is a desire and a hope that it might help a little. So, think about what we could do together if we actually had the political will to do something that really moved. I am ready to think out of the box in relation to all possible solutions, but one tool that we know really works is mystery jumpers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104357	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104358	The broad agreements I am a big, warm supporter of, and the more we can do together, the better it is. We are in complete agreement, it seems, broadly in this Chamber that there is a problem we need to take seriously. I have not heard anyone say that this is the solution that will stop the sale. I do not think so either. I believe that this is a step forward and I agree with the rapporteur that there are other steps to be taken. I think, basically, that we should ask for ID to a much greater extent than we do today, because in the end, of course, it is the responsibility of the person who sells tobacco and alcohol to ensure that the person to whom they sell must actually buy it. We know that it is done in other countries. I myself have experienced what I have lived in before, and I am sure that others who have traveled in the United States and elsewhere have experienced the same thing; you are asked about it. If you don't have ID, you're not allowed, even if you're way above the age limit. Why don't we do that more in Denmark? I'd like to see that done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104444	Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104446	If only shops and comments etc. If they lived up to their obligation to ensure that they did not sell alcohol and tobacco to children and young people, then we did not have this problem. So that is what we must ensure is respected. And it's not being observed. It shows very, very many studies; it shows studies from Alcohol & Society; it shows studies from TV 2 and from Jyllands-Posten, and who else does it. And the way they document it every time is via mystery-shoppers, and that is also what is good experience with in other countries. So we have a tool at our fingertips that actually just requires that the Radical Left be on it, and then we'll be able to make this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104525	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104528	As I said, I fully agree. The problem is, of course, that it is sold to minors at all. And as I also said to Mrs Kirsten Andersen: if there is a concrete proposal, I would very much like to take it back to the radical group and discuss it there, but of course I do not have a mandate to say yes or no to something that we have not seen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104542	Thank you. Sir. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104544	Now Kirsten Normann got Andersen to get off the rails, and thank you for that, because then we can take a round about it. In other words, I think that the radical rapporteur should be vigilant about what the radical rapporteur, under normal circumstances, is on guard about, namely the rule of law. And I think that the radical rapporteur should go back to his parliamentary group and say that, in this way, this is something that is still on guard. The thing about using taxpayers' money to pay young people to go in to check whether potentially upright people are complying with the country's legislation, I would almost believe, as thesis, is something that the Radical Left would normally turn against. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104631	I can assure you that we are on the side of the rule of law. Now we are discussing a proposal from Mr. Per Larsen, who is dealing with something quite different from what the debate has been going on now, and I would therefore like to say the same thing I have said to both the Social Democrats and the SF rapporteur: if there is a specific proposal, I would very much like to take it back to the radical group and discuss it there. But we have not discussed it, because that is not what we have in this Chamber now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104652	We thank the rapporteur. It got a little rough. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211104709	Thank you for that, President, and also thank you to Conservatives for making this proposal. I think it is very relevant that we should have this discussion and that it is relevant that we should have a discussion on how to ensure that we enforce the rules for the sale of both tobacco and alcohol to children and young people. And it is because this is a very important social problem. This has also been mentioned by previous rapporteurs. And it is of great importance for us to be able to combat inequality in health. So the whole question of how we ensure that the legislation that is in place is complied with seems to me to be quite relevant. Because it has been quite clear that, although we have adopted age limits, they are not respected in the retail trade, and we will have nothing changed, it can be said, by adopting age limits in this Parliament, if it does not at the same time have an effect in the actual reality. That's why it's quite relevant to have this discussion. I also think that there are some positive elements to the issue of electronic age verification. At the same time, however, we can also hear that there are some challenges, both in terms of how effective it works, but also in terms of how it can be effectively enforced. That is why, like what Mr. Martin Geertsen of the Left said earlier, calling for this to be something that we can look at in a joint report and perhaps also allow into the debates that will be about preventing the use of alcohol by children and young people. That may be an element there, because we have raised the issue in the past. We got, for example. allocated 5 million. kr. additional to the Security Authority to carry out the checks precisely because the controls they had the opportunity to carry out earlier were limited to having one employee who had to cover the whole country in order to control the retail trade. And it gives, like itself, that it is a rather hopeless task. So that's where we got the Security Authority strengthened by another 5 million. kr., but it is still not enough. That is why I also fully agree with what was said in the debate that just went on before to look at the possibility of mystery shopping. I just think that it could be really profitable if we could together look at what initiatives are there to strengthen this control, what we can do in relation to mystery shopping, what we can do in relation to electronic age verification, and what we can do to look at the very aggressive and massive marketing that is in relation to both alcohol and tobacco in relation to children and young people, so that we can look at a comprehensive package on how we can solve this. So I have great sympathy for the proposal. I think we should take it with us and continue to work on it, but I think it is necessary that we do so as part of a comprehensive package where we can take several different initiatives so that we can ensure that we have real control and real enforcement of the legislation we adopt in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105008	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Per Larsen, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105032	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate in this Chamber. There is no doubt that the will to do so and the intentions to prevent children and young people from smoking are there. That's what we've been planning on, and that's fine. The only problem is that the enforcement of age limits is therefore sailing. We have seen this repeatedly in all the studies that have been carried out. There is a large overweight of shops that do not have it enforced sufficiently. The control of this is also inadequate. We've been able to see that. There are quite a few people who are being caught and have to answer for the very few fines and the checks that are being carried out are inadequate. Then you can probably set aside one million dollars after another to increase the stakes, but it just doesn't help. So, to put it plainly, mystery shoppers are state-elected kids who have to go in and try to buy illegal products in stores... not something we're going to like. It's a bad solution. However, with the electronic solutions that are possible, there is, I think, an obvious opportunity to carry out effective controls so that it will clearly appear on the cash register, so that there is one who is not old enough to buy the products he is trying to buy. There is, of course, a development in those electronic solutions that just roar out there, and there is nothing that cannot be done. So if it is the case that stores will not receive means of payment on which there is no age verification, then it is up to them. I think they'll take advantage of that. We can certainly see that there is huge support from the retail trade. Pretty much all the big chains back up on it. It was the combined merchants who introduced it some time ago, and there has been a great desire for a long time. So it would be appropriate to have this implemented, and I am quite sure that it would reduce the sale of illegal products to children and young people if you voted for this and implemented it. But, of course, we have to move forward, and when there is no majority in favour of it, we have to produce a report text which is moving in the right direction. In any case, we are going to be very hard on that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105256	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105259	Thank you. Several rapporteurs have already argued that we agree on the objective, but that the model proposed here is the hole as a sieve. The mere fact that kiosks and others can choose not to use the system means that then it is there that children and young people can buy their alcohol and cigarettes and medicines and games. Nevertheless, the rapporteur refuses to look at the possibility of using mysterieshoppers, which the media use over and over again, and they prove that the problem is huge, and they use their articles to mock us that we cannot find a way to create a system in which we can check that children or young people should not, of course, have the opportunity to buy alcohol and tobacco in shops, that is to say to knock down shops. The options available to the National Security Agency today are not sufficient to solve the problem. Is the rapporteur totally opposed to looking at an opportunity to give the Safety Authority greater muscle so that we hit the shops more than we hit the young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105359	As I was also told in my speech, we are directly opposed to the fact that the state is about to hire some children to go into the shops and try to buy some goods that they are not old enough to buy. We simply find this to be an unsympathetic thought. What we are putting forward here, on the other hand, is a very good opportunity for those sitting at the cash register to be assured that those who come and buy goods will also have the age they now need to be able to buy the goods in question. This is also why HK demands it as strongly as they do. You are actually proposing that it should be imposed by force.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105436	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105438	Thank you. So the big media do it over and over again. Then I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether he envisages a proposal to ban the media from using young people under 18 years of age as miseryshoppers in their studies, where they prove that there are certain shops that have major problems in complying with the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105458	No, I have no intention of doing that. It must be up to the relevant institutes and media to find out how they will act. I'm just saying that the state shouldn't hire kids as some kind of rat to ask for the kind of things they don't have the opportunity to buy. I certainly do not think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105517	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Public Health and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105535	I'm gonna check if we have the technology in order and the rapporteurs in the front row, etc. Everything should be okay. Then we have to start with the explanatory statement, and that is what the rapporteur for the questioners has to say, Mr President. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105603	Thank you, President. Most people in this country have probably followed with both interest and growing concern the whole uncovering of what can now be called the minkskandal, i.e. the process in which a committee of the government decided in November 2020 to dismantle the mink industry in Denmark. One thing is the nature of the resolution, where there is, of course, a discussion about whether it is an expropriation, etc., where the legal basis is and who knew when. However, the second element and the subject of today's debate are, of course, how the two ministers present in the Chamber today, Her Majesty the Queen's Excellencies, have dealt with the matter in particular. Have all necessary steps been taken to provide a full overview of the Review Board by full knowledge of e-mails, text messages and other relevant material? Has it been seen that the decisive decisions have also made the necessary quotations, so that we know exactly, to the history books and to us, what who knew when? We in the Danish People's Party have a concern that the government has tried to hide a number of things, in relation to what has been written about, also in the press, and that is why we would like to have a statement today about exactly how the government itself believes that it has observed all the necessary considerations in its cooperation with the Folketing, as everything else has just been done to control the government, but also, of course, with the committee of inquiry which has subsequently been set up partly, it can be said, due to the seriousness of the matter, and partly because there is a strong suspicion that the government has not provided everything to the Folketing. So I have a proposal for adoption, which I understand according to the rules must be made at a later stage is it correct? Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105824	Thank you. Sir. Mr Messerschmidt has the floor as the first of the rapporteurs. Now we need the answer. First it's the PM. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211105837	Thank you for that and thank you for the opportunity to discuss the issue of handing over material to Commission inquiries again. After all, it is a debate on how to ensure that the material that we want to be available to commissions in future will also be text messages in this case. I would like to start by stressing that in practice very large quantities of material have been handed over to investigative committees. Thus, in relation to the examination commission on mink, the Prime Minister's Office has provided over 22,000 pages of written material, in particular material sent by e-mail, and approx. 200 pages of copies of text messages. In addition, the full content of 38 mailboxes, including my own mailbox, for the relevant period is also provided. However, I understand the question that refers in particular to the problem that text messages may have been deleted and that therefore there are messages that have not been able to be delivered to the Mink Commission. In the past, in consultation with the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs, I have outlined the approach to text messages that have so far been adopted. I explained that text messages have not previously been considered as a form of communication to be stored for documentary reasons, in addition to the rare cases where a text message may be journalized and that the content of phones, including text messages, is deleted in connection with e.g. resignation. This is due to information security considerations, including privacy considerations. Text messages are much more used than emails for private communication. And I explained that the messages included: in such cases will no longer be present for Commission investigations. If today a committee of inquiry on matters under the previous government or under the government before it was set up, text messages from the relevant ministers will no longer be available in the ministries for such an investigation. Text messages are thus lost according to previous practice, to the extent that they are not recorded. This has been the case under previous governments and, as I have said on several occasions, it is not my impression that previous ministers have reported text messages to a significant extent, which I still have the benefit of hearing any previous ministers contradict if that is the case. It is clear that this approach cannot be maintained in the future. Apparently, there is a desire in the Danish Parliament for text messages to be delivered in the future, and there are therefore some new requests for what material is to be made available. That is why, as you know, the Ministry of Justice has launched a work to develop general guidelines for the storage of written digital communications, including text messages. The Minister of Justice will explain that in a moment. Moreover, that approach is entirely in line with the previous government's approach, namely that when a new desire arises for material to be available for Commission studies, a future solution must be found. A little over three years ago, my predecessor in the Prime Minister's Office was thus called for consultation in the Legal Affairs Committee. The background was that criticism had been raised of the State Department's extradition to the Tibet Commission. The criticism at that time went, among other things. that the Prime Minister's Office had not examined the mailboxes of relevant employees, but had only searched for material in the Ministry's journal system and asked the employees who were still employed if they were in possession of additional material. Furthermore, criticism had been levelled against the then Minister of Justice that a number of e-mail boxes for police officers were no longer available for use in the investigation because they were deleted. The then Prime Minister, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, stressed during the consultation that the Prime Minister's Office had sought material in accordance with the same procedure as had been used under previous commissions, but at the same time acknowledged that the course of the case gave rise to reflection and that learning of the case had to be learned. In this context, work was initiated under the auspices of the Ministry of Justice to establish general guidelines for the storage of deleted e-mails. These are the guidelines issued under the current government in September 2021, which ensure that mailboxes are available for use by Commission investigations. At that time, it was clear that mailboxes had to be made available for Commission studies in the future as something new. It is now clear that in future the same can be seen to be the case for text messages. And that is the work the government has now set in motion, as I said. There are also specific questions today about the process of trying to restore text messages for the use of the Mink Commission. I would like to refer first of all to the large number of questions put by the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, which I have answered. In total, there are more than 30 answers, with a number of details being bored out, and in addition, there are a large number of answers relating to deletion and journaling of text messages. I am not in a position to add any more to the answers that have already been given. However, I would like to point out that the replies show that the Prime Minister's Office considers that all entities that may be relevant to re-engaging SMS messages have been made available for this purpose. In relation to police technicians' attempts to recreate text messages, the Minister of Justice will address it. I look forward to today's debate, and then I look forward to the completion of the work now under way in the Ministry of Justice to ensure that text messages will also be available for future Commission investigations in the same way as the government has ensured with regard to e-mails. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211110408	Thank you. One brief comment can now be made by the general rapporteurs. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211110417	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply. There are several things that call for interest. Perhaps the Prime Minister will not think that this is a new interest, but at least it is an interest which is prompted by the fact that we have not yet received the necessary answers. This is among other things. in relation to the bad practice that appears to have been introduced under this government. Can the Prime Minister comment on when the practice of automatically deleting text messages was started and what was the specific occasion? For we have heard quite a lot of members of previous governments who have told us that there was therefore no such practice. So exactly when and why did they choose to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211110500	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211110503	The conditions surrounding the setting up of my phone are now very well described. This has been done both in connection with press meetings and a large number of replies to parliamentary questions, and I have nothing further to add to the questions that have been answered in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211110516	Thank you, Prime Minister. No one else has asked for a brief comment. Then we will continue with the Minister's reply, but now it is the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211110541	Thank you for the floor. I will begin by repeating the Prime Minister. During the whole process, the government has cooperated fully and closely with the Mink Commission. Like the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of Justice has provided the Commission with very, very extensive material. Thousands of pages of material have been released from the Ministry's journal system. Full mail accounts have been provided for myself and for several employees, and countless text messages have been delivered, including my own. In addition, a large number of people have been interviewed by the Commission, including: myself and other ministers. But it is also a fact that some phones have been set to delete text messages automatically, and therefore it has not been possible to hand over the text messages to the commission. It has been entirely in accordance with the rules to set your phone to automatically delete text messages as long as the reporting obligation has been respected. And as the Prime Minister mentioned, the reason why we have not been in a similar situation before is that text messages have not been a theme in the material releases to previous commissions in the same way as it has been this time. This means that if a commission were to be set up tomorrow to investigate some matter under a previous government, it would not be possible to obtain all the unregistered text messages from former ministers or officials as there might be, because it is quite a firm practice for ministries to delete the content of the telephones that are returned when they resign. I am not saying that in order to suspect any previous ministers, only to remind you that it is new that commissions are interested in texting to such an extent and the practice of the authorities has not taken this into account. We have to see that the text messages will be included in Commission studies to a much greater extent than we have been used to, forward-looking, and that is why, as was also mentioned before, we are also preparing common guidelines on how text messages should be stored so that they can be released for any future Commission investigations. It's a complicated job. It takes time. It acts among other things. to find the right technical solutions. Meanwhile, some preliminary guidelines are being worked on which take into account the current IT setup. The preliminary guidelines are expected to be ready in the first half of this year. Political discussions will take place in connection with the preparation of the guidelines, including in relation to the preliminary guidelines. It has also been asked about the police's attempts to recreate the text messages that have been deleted automatically. In December last year, I had the opportunity to explain in detail this question at a closed consultation in the Committee on Inquiry. It is important in this context that it was closed because it gave rise to the fact that we could actually go deeper into presenting what it was for some methods the police have used. I myself thought it worked, and it was also the impression on those present, quite convincing. So if I should briefly sum up: the Ministry of Justice, in agreement with the Prime Minister, took the extraordinary step of asking the police technicians for assistance in trying to restore the texts. These are some of the country's best IT technicians who are investigating and helping to solve very serious crime, killing, rape, organised crime, etc. They have a lot of experience with this type of assignment, and they have access to the relevant tools. Specifically, the police used the tools they use in the investigation of serious crime to restore the text messages. Unfortunately, we did not manage to recreate the text messages to the extent we had hoped, but the conclusion of NC3 as the device is called is clear. They have conducted all relevant investigations using their tools, and subsequently the Cybersecurity Centre, which is part of the Defence Intelligence Service, has stated that the Centre would have followed the same procedures and used the same tools as the police did. Some have then asked whether the units should not be sent to private actors. Surely this question presupposes that the private players should be better at doing this type of job than the police and our intelligence services, that they should have more experience than the police and intelligence services in recreating content from phones, or that they should have access to other tools. That is not the case, and I believe that those who have taken part in this debate, those who have been part of it in the past, are aware of it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211111014	Thank you. I see that the Prime Minister is asking for a question for the Minister of Justice. Laughter That, of course, will be possible if you wish. It's on my screen. I understand the Prime Minister's apostasy. Then it's mr. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211111035	Thank you. And thank you to the Prime Minister for withdrawing, at least during Question Time. I would, of course, like to address the same question to the Minister for Justice, to whom I was not given an answer by the Prime Minister. What must be good for a government when a case has taken a very, very long time is that one can then also refer to it, it has taken a very long time, and that one has answered many times since one has not answered, but one can at least answer that one has answered, even if one has not answered. And so it could be exciting to hear now whether the Minister for Justice intends to reply or whether we are again given a reference to the answers that were not answers. The question is: why and when were decisions taken on automatic deletion of key ministers' text messages? So, what was the justification, and what was the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211111120	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211111124	On the one hand, there is the answer to that, and on the other hand, I have to say for myself that the telephone I was given when I became a minister was not set up to delete text messages. That's as far as it goes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211111132	There are no more brief comments, and as we have finished with the reply, we shall move on to the rapporteur's round. The first rapporteur to speak is the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211111151	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank the two ministers for their speeches. I think I can say that this is not the first time we have been discussing these matters, and it will probably not be the last time either. As the Prime Minister and Minister for Justice have said, there have been quite a lot of consultations and debates, and a committee of inquiry has also been set up, which, of course, should be allowed to work on these cases at a quiet and distance of an arm's length. However, this does not alter the fact that the Folketing still has an important part of its education to keep an eye on the government and among other things. to ensure that the government complies with the law. And it has to be said that the crucial issue, in relation to whether you were aware of the illegal intervention that was launched back in November 2020, is a core task for the Folketing to uncover. Did you know that there was a dubious legal basis, a lack of legal basis, for what I would call an expropriative intervention against mink growers in the country? Were we indifferent, or were we in total ignorance, despite the fact that at least we know that we could have been familiar with it? It is absolutely crucial and central to find out how this government acts in relation to the law of ministerial responsibility. The fact that you deliberately do not understand that there was no legal basis is not the same as saying that you are then in excusable circumstances, no matter how good a case you might think to have. I am absolutely convinced that many of the decisions, including many of the difficult decisions that this government has had to make in the years that have now passed, when the corona has ravaged, both in the world and unfortunately also in Denmark, have called for courageous decisions. But it doesn't raise a minister above the law. And if one has the slightest expectation, suspicion or suspicion that the intervention which one might consider necessary in a specific context is not legally provided for, then of course one has a duty of action in relation to convening the Folketing and ensuring that that legal basis is provided. And this is especially true when we are in a lex specialis, which it is about in relation to expropriation, namely Article 73 of the Constitution, which very clearly means that there is a requirement that the instrument should be in law. It shall not be customary; it shall not be in a notice or circular. And if we now know that there were at least central officials around the government who were aware that there was not the necessary legal basis in the days around this crucial decision, then it is absolutely essential that we clarify, for example. the correspondence that may have been between his Excellency the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister or between other ministers, because it is a matter of trusting that this government does not see itself as above the law. That is why today's debate is so crucial. It is still unclear to me and to a number of others, I think, why it was so partyally chosen to introduce automatic deletion among the country's ministers and what the specific occasion was. It may be very opportune, but as we have to understand, with modern technology it is less relevant than it has been in the past. Because, as I understand it from what you can read in the press, etc., text messages are far more rooted in a phone than iMessage messages, which is why you can say that if you still use iMessage messages, the need for deletion is less present than if they are text messages. I can also understand that the concern expressed in relation to foreign powers and security, etc., raises some new questions. Because if it's so crucial, why wait 30 days? So, as I understand it, a Chinese in Beijing can log in to my mail account and familiarize himself with the content in just a few minutes, so why 30 days? There are just so many questions that the government will not answer. And that is no good, because it prevents the Folketing from fulfilling the crucial task of controlling the government in place at all times. Therefore, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left and the Conservative People's Party, I shall make the following statement: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to provide all relevant material to the Commission of the French Republic, so that the events of November 2020 regarding the killing of all Danish minks can be fully investigated. In this context, the Danish Parliament expresses its deep concern about how the government has acted, not least in relation to the provision of telephones and data from them. The Danish Parliament also requires the Government to seek private alternatives to the restoration of e.g. SMS messages that can help describe the process in general and, in particular, to identify when the government members and senior officials knew that the legal basis for the extensive intervention against the country's minkers did not exist. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211111642	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. There are no brief comments, so we thank Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and now it is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211111656	Thank you. It almost feels like coming home to have to go one more round on the text message but we're taking the debate again. Thank you for the floor. I am not going to go into a long repetition of what the Prime Minister and Minister for Justice have so well explained, but allow me just to make a few additional observations. As the Prime Minister and Minister for Justice have reiterated here again today, the government has cooperated fully and continuously in close dialogue with the Investigation Commission on the provision of material. The Ministry of Justice, in agreement with the Prime Minister's Office, has even asked the police for assistance in trying to restore text messages that have been deleted. This is an extraordinary step to ensure that the Commission has access to relevant material. Unfortunately, we failed to restore the text messages, and this is despite the fact that some of the country's best IT technicians with the best prerequisites and tools were put on the case. It is not only a pity, but it is also frustrating that it has not been possible. Because if anyone's interested in getting those texts recreated, of course it's the government. Because it would put an end to speculation and one, I think, good suspicion, because the public would then see that there is nothing new about the government's knowledge of the legal basis, as the Prime Minister has made very clear on previous occasions, namely that the government did not know that there was a lack of legal basis when the decision on killings was taken. It therefore tends to be conspiratorial, I think, when distrust is expressed, in relation to whether the police have done their job of getting those texts back well enough, and when there are these suggestions that you should get others on the job. I think we should remind ourselves that the Cybersecurity Centre in the Defence Intelligence Service has also indicated that they would have followed the same guidelines with the same tools that the police have followed. Having said that, the Mink Commission, as the Prime Minister also mentioned, has received very large amounts of material from Danish authorities, including many text messages. Moreover, it is generally known that a large number of officials and ministers have been willing to appear on the Commission. Because the discussion on access to material by investigative committees in general is not new; we have had it in the past. I think it is positive and constructive that we have such discussions. I think it is a democratic health sign that we are also constantly adjusting the rules, guidelines and practices according to the experience we have gained in previous and current Commission studies. After all, discussions in the past have also given rise to a change in our approach to obtaining, storing and delivering material to commissions. The Mink Commission has now raised a new question about text messages as part of the extradition material. We must, of course, take this into account in the future, as has been taken into account in securing mailboxes following the discussion we had in connection with the Tibet Commission. So we must now count on any future commissions to ask more for SMS correspondence along with other material, e-mails, etc. That is why I also think it is positive that, as the Minister for Justice also mentioned, there is work going on in the Ministry of Justice to draw up general guidelines for the retention of digital documentation, including text messages. In this way, we can hopefully ensure that relevant material, including text messages, will be available to any future commissions. Those were the words. Thank you. Then I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament considers it essential that the authorities cooperate fully and closely with committees of inquiry and investigation into, among other things. the provision of material for the purposes of Commission investigations. The Danish Parliament expects future examination and investigation committees to involve SMS messages more closely in their studies, and the Danish Parliament therefore considers that a solution should be found to ensure that work-related SMS messages can be included in future Commission studies. The Danish Parliament notes that the Government, like the guidelines for the retention of deleted e-mails by government authorities, etc. V 43). Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112144	The proposal for adoption will also be included in the further debate. For the time being, there is a brief comment from Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112150	Thank you, President. It is, of course, touching that the government will work with the Folketing in the future; I am absolutely convinced that it will sign for that. That's just not what we're talking about today. Well, we're talking about what is and I actually think it's a little inappropriate that Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen insinuates that the proposal for adoption that we have put forward should be a declaration of distrust to the police. That, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, on the other hand, can be absolutely certain that it should be regarded as a total distrust of the government, but not of the police. - Sir... Christian Rabjerg Madsen in this connection rejects the fact that the police in other contexts would regard it as a completely obvious thing to engage with private actors who could assist the police in its work?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112237	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112239	In relation to the government's cooperation with the Folketing, it was not a general consideration, but something very specific that I was talking about, namely the fact that the government will involve the Folketing in the work on the concrete guidelines. And I shall not require you to sign for that, but I think it would be natural to sign for that; I think that is sensible. Where I believe there is a mistrust of the police is, of course, when you know that the best people in the police have dealt with it; when you know that the Cybersecurity Centre has dealt with it, and you know that the Cybersecurity Centre has said that they would use the same tools as the police, but then you keep questioning whether it would be a good idea to let others look at it too. It is, of course, questioning whether the Danish police have the right powers, and I do not think that is very appropriate. I, for my part, and the Social Democrats, have a great deal of faith in the police, including in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112339	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112341	I'll try to describe it with a metaphor. In case I ask, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, if he is the best political rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, will he not say yes? If I ask other members of the Socialist parliamentary group about the same thing, could it not be that there were more nuances in the answer to the question? The same could be imagined with regard to the police. If you ask the police if they are the best in the world to find the PM's deleted text messages, it wouldn't exactly mean a advancement on the career ladder to answer no. But it could be that if you asked some of the private players about the same thing, they would make some qualified suggestions as to why the answer could be different.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112416	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112418	After all, we have just elected political rapporteur in the Socialist Group, and there was only one candidate: myself. So the metaphor was, I think, a little poorly chosen. In relation to the police and the issue of text messages, the police clearly state that they have used the tools at their disposal. I trust their resources and trust their competences, and in addition, the Cybersecurity Centre has said the same thing. And it's on that basis that my strong faith in the police in this case rests.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112450	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112505	Thank you for the floor, President. The case of the illegal killing of all mink is one of the greatest political scandals of recent Danish history. And the government's subsequent handling developed rather quickly to become a serious scandal in the scandal. Unfortunately, we know the story all too well • the story of the deleted text messages; the story that the eraser unceasingly continued, even when the commission asked them to stop; we know the story of how the government has been very reluctant in their cooperation with the commission several times. This is a major problem, and the government deserves the absolutely sharpest criticism of the handling of this whole matter. For the Left, it is important that all the stones are turned, that everything is brought to light, that we get to the bottom of this scandal. Therefore, it is essential that all material, all devices and all text messages are delivered to the commission. We have a natural expectation that the government will ensure this, but unfortunately we have also experienced a reluctant government here too. And that is why, here in the Parliament's platform, there must be a clear call to all parties of the Folketing: let us stand together and demand that the government do everything it can to give the Commission all the information and materials it needs, even if it requires private IT experts to assist the police in restoring deleted text messages. Against this background, and in the light of that wish, we are in the text of the adoption which Mr. Morten Messerschmidt read earlier. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112707	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112709	Thank you. We did a painstaking job to get this committee of inquiry and this committee set up. It was a completely new installation, and it was a lot about the fact that there should not be politics and a round howl in it all the time, because you had to have a proper investigation, and there should be no political round howl. Then, on several occasions, we have heard the Left and the current group chairman of the Left say that it does not matter what we come out with and work with, and that there is just an impeachment case and that the investigation commission's task is to qualify the basis for an impeachment case. Is the Left's position on the work of the Committee on Inquiry? Because if so, there is something I, as chairman of that committee, have completely misunderstood, and I think that many other parties will have been deprived of it, because that is not what we set up the Committee on Inquiry for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112816	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112818	What, sir? Jens Rohde has misunderstood and hasn't misunderstood, I don't think it's my job to stand here from Parliament's platform and explain. But I think that Mr. Jens Rohde's description of what the investigative commission's work should qualify in relation to a political discussion in here is absolutely correct. I look forward to their work being completed, and I also note that if this work is to have the necessary quality, it is of the utmost importance that the investigating commission has access to all material, data and all entities, and therefore it is important to have a government which does not oppose but cooperates with the Commission. For it is hard to do a thorough job, where everything comes to light if you do not have access to all the data.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112905	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211112907	We agree that the Commission must have access to the material requested by the Commission. It is, in fact, outside any discussion. But as I hear Mr. Morten Dahlin, at any rate, it is a clear denial of Mr. Thomas Danielsen's reasons for setting up this commission, and I am pleased about that. Because it was not the intention of the investigating commission to qualify the basis of an impeachment. The investigation committee and the committee were supposed to do a piece of information so that we can then decide what to do, and the discussion about what to do afterwards seems to me to be untimely. Then I have another question, and that is: one of the problems is that we have a blackout law as a public law. Will the Left help to change the public law?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211113002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211113005	The first part of Mr. I regard Jens Rohde's comment as more of a comment than a question, and I think that we should be extremely critical of what I said, in order to make it in any way an excuse for my group chairman, for it certainly was not. As far as the second part is concerned, the Left has clearly stated that there are some challenges in the current public law that we would like to look at and where more openness and transparency can be created, and we are ready to engage in a dialogue with the parties of the Folketing on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211113031	The next brief remark is to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211113035	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Morten Dahlin for the speech. I took note of the fact that Mr. Mr Dahlin said that it was absolutely essential that the Commission should have access to the information it needed to do the work, and I fully agree with Mr Dahlin. Morten Dahlin in. I just need to hear what Mr. Simpson said. Morten Dahlin bases it on the fact that this is not the case. Because in my view, it is the case that we are politically, in line with what Mr. Jens Rohde says, sets up a commission, prepares a commission, so that we keep arm's length in relation to the commission, allows the commission to do its job, and if the commission comes to us and says: We have problems, we must of course respond to it. But Mr. Mr Dahlin, it is not as an untimely interference in the work of the Commission if we begin to interfere in what the Commission should have and what it should not have? It is surely the Commission's own prerogative to decide which information is supposed to have access to?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211113128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211113130	No, I have to make one thing clear here. The challenge is, of course, that the Commission does not have It is simply not a problem that the Left is trying to solve that problem, because if we have to have everything above this issue, it is important that we do everything we can to recreate those text messages so that the Commission can have access to the data that the Commission obviously does not have access to today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211113212	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211113214	But I just need to know if it's Mr. Knox. Morten Dahlin's problem or whether that is the Commission's problem. I have not heard the Commission express anything about the fact that there is information that they could not access or that they have been prevented from getting it. If, on the other hand, they had wanted to have and asked us to be helpful in providing that information, we would, of course, have been ready for it, but the Commission has not done so. If there is to be an arm's length transfer between the Commission and the political level, we must also respect the fact that it is the Commission, and not us, that defines the problems the Commission has, and therefore it becomes a kind of political interference in the work of the Commission if, as Mr. Morten Dahlin says the problem is, in fact, the problem of the Left and not the problem of the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211113253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211113256	Well, the commission has asked for those text messages to be recreated so that the commission can access that data. That hasn't happened. So there is some data the commission has requested that they have not today in the form of the deleted text messages. And if we have any tools at all, we can pull out of the toolbox to help the commission access that data, then as a whole Parliament should do so. It is data, it is information that the Commission would like to get its hands on, but they have not been able to get it because there has been a systematic deletion of text messages from the government stop. If we can help restore that data in any way, then we have to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211113333	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211113357	Thank you to the President and thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this question debate. I will not repeat what has already been said about the progress and the background to why we are here today. I just want to emphasise that the SF has two important messages for this debate. First of all, the Danish Parliament has set up a Commission of Granskning, thereby extending responsibility for the investigation to the Commission. The first message, therefore, is quite natural, that the Commission of the French Republic must have the material it is asking for and, moreover, respect and let it work. Parliament does the mandate, the Commission does the work. It's the division of labour. That principle is important to stick to, so that there is no need for continuous detailed government on the part of the Danish Parliament or to fight politically on a commission that you yourself have set up. The second message is that this is not the only reason why we have the Granskningskommissionen, because there have also been a large number of other cases which clearly show that we need a change to our public law. Firstly, because it is good and important in itself that power can be lost to the nails, but also because a number of cases over a number of years have undermined confidence between politicians and citizens. I hardly need remind the blue section of the Danish Parliament of how the then bourgeois government managed power when critically asked about the Iraq War and how the Iraqi Commission was placed in the grave by the bourgeois team, and how journalists were repeatedly denied access to documents and interviews with the ministers at that time, and if they received documents, everything was deleted in black. It's just that we're gonna get rid of the hypocrisy. In the present case, i.e. the work of the Commission, it has always been SF's position that the Commission should have access to what it needed, no more or less. What is the real problem here? Some say a powerful government. But if the powerful user automatically deletes text messages, why is it legal? It has also been under bourgeois governments, where there have also been examples of ministers deleting text messages. If the bourgeois politicians are really concerned about the substance here, in other words to ensure that information is available to the public, the most important thing must be that both the public and the adopted practice make it absolutely crystal clear what information a government is obliged to preserve and hand over to potential commissions and other bodies which the Folketing decides to set up. Learned from the experience of the autograph on text messages and the fact that this current commission, unlike other previous commissions, has requested SMS correspondence, it is absolutely a requirement for the future that text messages should be recorded as documents, since the obligation to record, as it is designed and interpreted today, has proved to be inadequate. The problem is not, as is the case with probability, whether there is really a problem of viability, but even more so that the very suspicion of it is harmful. Similarly, we cannot live with the doubts as to whether there have been instructions or the like that are only on text messages, and therefore this and other electronic communication platforms used between ministers and officials must and must be recorded in the future. We consider, however, that attempts have been made to reconstruct text messages etc. as we can expect, and therefore our eyes are on future problems. As my colleague Mr. Jens Rohde also said, then it has been discussed in committee and every conceivable attempt has been made to reconstruct them. However, the current government, which has itself created the doubt, had dressed it up to promote the process of negotiating a new public law. I just think it can be concluded now that we have ample majority in the Folketing to negotiate a new public law, and we quite rightly do not have to wait for a government to do so. But I think it would suit the government to say that it is the natural product of today's debate, namely that we should sit together and make a new public law. Finally, on behalf of the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Christian Democrats, I would like to make the following points: proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that several political processes, from the Iraq War to the mink case, have led to a gap of confidence between the Folketing and changing governments, and between citizens and power. The root of this is imprecise and unclear practices for the provision of information and outright cover-up in the form of a public law that has contributed to the political crisis of confidence. However, the Folketing considers that the law on environmental information serves as living proof that even considerably expanded publicity does not hinder the government's ability to have an internal space for political reflection. The Folketing considers that a new public law should be accompanied by precise and binding rules for the conservation and deletion of information and its transmission to all relevant bodies, including commissions. The Folketing recommends to the government to open negotiations immediately on a new and far more open public law, inspired by the Environmental Information Act, with due regard for legitimate interests such as the security of the empire, the commercial interests of the state, the protection of personal data, etc. Finally, the ministerial service rule should be abolished. • V 44).
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114002	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further negotiations. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and I can therefore welcome the next rapporteur, who is the Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114021	Openness begets trust, secrecy the exact opposite. This is true in many of life's circumstances, but as elected representatives we have a special obligation to show openness. We take decisions that have consequences, also far-reaching consequences, for real people, and that is why it must be a prerequisite for representative democracy to be able to look at power in the seams and that there is openness about how political decisions are made. This also applies, of course, when it comes to the very large and serious decisions. The confidence between the citizens and the power that I am asking for does not exactly live well, unfortunately. It is not just an individual case that has been decisive here. Rather, these are repeated cases of deleted e-mails, missing text messages, established commissions and closed commissions, so all the processes surrounding the Iraq War, the Tibet Commission and now also the mink case. A commission must shed light on what is up and down in a given case, and the investigation commission has the clear purpose of clarifying what is up and down in the matter of killing mink. It is now quite clear that the Commission lacks access to the correspondence of key persons in the days around the time of this important decision. The fact that text messages are an ordinary tool of work is what it has to say. It is quite obvious that text messages today have a different role to play than, for example. 10 years ago. Today it is an ordinary form of communication and also in some places in the case. We in the Radical Left have the clear expectation, and we also hear from the government, that all relevant material, including units, will be made available in cooperation with the Review Commission. However, I also think that this debate gives rise to a debate on the law on public access to documents, as several other rapporteurs have also had occasion to do. Since 2016, we in the Radical Left have been fighting for changing governments to take action to restore openness and to withdraw the blackout curtains. We want to create a new public law that will create greater transparency in public administration and more clarity in how decisions are actually taken. We would like to abolish the ministerial service rule quite specifically, and we would like to see a single Board of Appeal dealing with the diverse practices around the ministries. I have said this before, but I simply cannot imagine any better opportunity to start negotiations on a new public law than at the moment. Because just as I started by saying, openness breeds confidence, and confidence in politics is therefore a shortcoming in these years. So we in the Radical Left think that we need to look both at a new public law, but also at the clue to have very clear, precise and binding rules on how to store text messages. Finally, I would just like to say that the Radical Left supports the text of the adoption which the rapporteur for the SF has just read out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114341	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and it is from Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114350	Transparency and trust are linked, says the rapporteur, and I agree with that. Trust is, of course, a central concept in Danish parliamentarianism, and so I would like to know whether the radical rapporteur considers that the government has provided the necessary and sufficient openness in providing material to the examining commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114410	Thank you. I have already expressed an annoyance that there has been a bad practice where text messages have been deleted, text messages that might have been used in the ground, some interpretations that are out there. I mean, it could've been texting like that. So in the Radical Left we have been really sorry about the systematic bad practices that have been and precisely why we need these clear binding guidelines on how to store text messages so that such a question of doubt does not arise again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114447	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114451	Thank you. Trust and openness are linked, I am very much. Very much agree. If the Radical Left then finds that the current practice of the government has not lived up to what it needs to be said to be open, how can the government live up to what is necessary to have the confidence of the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114508	In the Radical Left, we continue to trust the government. And in relation to the investigation commission's work, we are waiting, like everyone else, for the investigating commission to complete its work and come to a conclusion, and then we have to see what it is reaching and what it is getting unveiled. After all, it is also part of transparency that there is now a committee of inquiry working, and then we will have to find out what it is going to do and see if political consequences can be drawn. But that requires that a commission be allowed to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114541	The next brief remark is to Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114544	Thank you to the rapporteur for the speech and the words about trust. That is why I would like to ask the Radical Left a question of principle about trust. Can the Radical Left have confidence in a government if the government commits an illegal act, is told that that act is illegal, but continues to commit illegal acts?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114609	I mean, if someone is told that there is an illegal act here, and they say that okay, it's illegal, but bad, don't worry about it, I go ahead with it, and that's a minister, no, of course you wouldn't have confidence in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114626	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114630	So if it is a government halt that commits an illegal act, finds out that it is illegal and continues to commit the illegal act, then can the Radical Left no longer trust that government as a whole? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114646	Listen to this: there is no distinction between whether it is a government stop, whether it is one minister or another minister, whether it is a red government, a blue government or whatever. If anyone is told that here there is an act that is illegal and that says with open eyes that nothing is going to happen anyway, then I find it rather difficult to see that we in the Radical Left should have confidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114707	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114711	It is because I find it interesting that the Radical Left says that one has confidence in the government, all the time that virtually every week it offers a story in the media with the radical leader as the sender that we have a government that is powerful and self-willed, and it is indeed some very tumorous expressions that are used about the government's doings and barn. If one now thinks that one has a government that is so powerful and self-willed, and the backdrop is almost that it violates such general democratic rules, why not simply pull the curtain away under the government and make sure that we can have an election?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114754	I myself think I have been told at some point that there is a minister who is simply gambling with the confidence of the Radical Left, and that is the Minister for Justice in relation to a completely different matter of logging. However, we have drawn the conclusion in the Radical Left that we have said very clearly that the power that we are experiencing there is around the government, especially about being a one-party government, and therefore we cannot see ourselves pointing to a one-party government. For the necessary questions that will arise in a multi-party government are not being asked, they do not arise. And our reading is that, among other things. That is why we are in such a situation where there is a committee of inquiry to examine a current government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114843	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114846	Well, yeah, well, this isn't the first time we have commissions like that to look at us. It just seems so striking, and I apologise, a little unbelievable, that one is consistently inclined to use all these violent expressions about a government, and so far we have not seen the Radical Left have the courage to draw the consequences of it. We can only see that, and it is quite a long time now that we have seen it. Well, we actually thought it ended with sir. Morten Østergaard, who said that now we in the Radical Left should stop constantly threatening the government. But it's only gotten worse, to put it mildly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211114930	I think that the government has noticed the consequence, as the Radical Left says, that we cannot support a one-party government. So I do not agree that we have not, like ourselves, drawn any conclusions from what we have seen. So says Mr. Jens Rohde, it's unbelievable. I think, first of all, that if you are not honest, the infidelity will arise. There we are quite honest in the Radical Left, even with the government to which we are a support party, and I simply believe that we must be so that we can have credibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115010	Thank you to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115022	Thank you for that, President. In the Enhedslisten, we are obviously concerned about getting to the bottom of this case of killing mink and the missing legal home, and of course also in the question of who knew what, and when. It is not because, like the right, we disagree with the decision taken. On the contrary, we believe that this was a right and a wise and necessary decision because it ensured public health in the midst of a dangerous and serious epidemic. We are concerned about this because we are concerned that there is full transparency in how power works in Denmark and because, of course, we must be able to rely on the information we receive from the government. There are no snitches in the waltz for us here. We treat red and blue straight, we care about the substance of the matter. It is, of course, absolutely crucial that we find out what has been going on around the lack of legal basis in relation to the killing of mink outside the zones. And the debate we have here today is also an end of it. To that end, we have set up a commission. We have given it a mandate. We have asked it to work on the basis of that mandate and to do the job. Now it is we who have commissioned the Commission to do this task, and that is why, of course, we also have a special obligation not to interfere in the work of the Commission. Similarly, if we are to ensure that the Commission has credibility and integrity in relation to its work, it is absolutely essential that we do not interfere in the work of the Commission, but rather assist it if it comes to us and asks us for assistance. But the commission hasn't asked for our help here. The Commission has not said that it lacks information and that it cannot provide it in cooperation with the government. It has not asked for additional tools. That is why we believe that this is a rather untimely interference with the debate we are having today. For we have also discussed the whole issue of access to deleted text messages, which I fully agree with is an incredibly unacceptable practice which needs to be changed. The National Police have had the opportunity to try to recreate them. We even asked Center for Cybersecurity. I would say that fortunately, also for the Minister of Justice, it turns out that they would have done exactly the same thing as police IT experts, otherwise I would also say that we would have had a bigger problem, i.e. if the main IT experts were not sitting with the police, who are going to investigate crime. But, on the other hand, the debate we have today is a debate about the fact that we have seen a general trend towards power closing itself and that in the last ten years of changing governments there has been a greater distance between the population and power. Trust in politicians and government has become less and less. This is, of course, due to the fact that there have been a number of cases which have given rise to distrust. But as such, it is nothing new, even if it should not happen. What is new, however, is that there was a majority left in 2013 that chose to change the Public Access Act. With a spell, we went from having an open and transparent democracy to a system in which democratic control is based on random discoveries and whistleblowers' efforts rather than democratic rules that give the press good and fair access to go after the authorities. That is why I also think that, if the right-wing means something by this talk of openness and access to information, then it should be quite natural that here too we should make a tough effort to change the public law and to abolish the deterioration that came back with the change in 2013. After all, the only thing that is required to get a good public law back is that the government and the right wing are involved in bringing the law back to the original state of law. But for mysterious reasons it is not a priority, either for the right or for the press minister, to ensure that the press has good working conditions. It is in exchange for the Enhedslisten and several other parties in this matter, which is why I believe that I can promise with serenity that this debate will not be the last time we have this debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115432	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115438	First of all, I can sign to Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund and say that we would very much like to help change the Public Service Act forward in content, but back in time. And then I would say that I feel like a part of the right; I think most people think that I am. But what I really want to ask is, is that Mr. Peder Hvelplund's opinion that the investigative commission has been given the texts they have asked for. So, my view is that the investigating commission has asked for all relevant text messages to be delivered, whereas the government has replied that for various technical reasons this cannot be done. You've asked the police, yes, and you've asked the cybercrime center, but you have, for example. It is not considered to ask private players, for they are convinced that they cannot do more than the former two. So the question is, is that Mr. Peder Hvelplund's opinion that the government has handed over the text messages that the investigating commission has requested?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115533	Well, now it's always interesting to discuss both what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt thinks and experiences what you think and experience. But what is interesting in this matter is what the Commission is experiencing, and if it is the case that the Commission is coming and saying that they simply lack the tools to access some information that they have not been able to obtain, then it is clear that we shall have to look at it; if there is a request from the Commission about it, then it is clear that we will look at it. That is our task as a investigative committee. I have just not seen this request coming from the Commission, so I have to start from the fact that the Commission is working with the government to obtain that information. If that is not the case, I think we have signalled quite strongly that the Commission is welcome to approach and say that they need assistance to do so, and I assume they do. Otherwise it will be apparent from the conclusion that the Commission will be submitting here in June, and then it is clear that it will be included in the overall picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115626	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115629	I think that is one of the best answers we have received today. For it will of course also be read and received out there as an open invitation to, that if there is a concern that the things that have then been deleted cannot be extradited, then one will turn to the Folketing so that by the majority that hopefully will be, with the Enhedslisten and what Mr. Peder Hvelplund calls for right-wing parties... that's now something I wear with pleasure... will be able to force the government to do so, for example. by the intermediary of private actors. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115659	It is clear that if there is a request from the Commission that it lacks the tools to work on this, we will of course look into it. I have not heard that from the Commission yet, and I assume that if it is the Commission's opinion, it will. Otherwise, as I said earlier, this will be reflected in the conclusion that the Commission will be submitting here in June.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115720	The next brief remark is from Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115723	I have a fundamental question for the Enhedslisten: can the Enhedslisten support a government if a government commits something illegal, be made aware that it is committing something serious, but continues to commit the illegal acts?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115738	Now I am aware that here we have a different moral and political compass from that of the Left, where there is, of course, a tradition for ministers to sit, who continue with illegal practices, and that this is not a major problem, either for the Left or for a current government. We do not have that view in the Enhedslisten. I believe that this is also reflected in the fact that we have had a Minister for Food in the past, in which we did not have confidence, and as recently as last week there was a Minister for Transport, whom we have also had to observe both withheld information and misled and who has spoken untruely with rapporteurs. It is clear that then we no longer have confidence. There I can only say that we have a different and, in my view, more democratically correct view of what can be allowed both as a government and as a minister than one has in the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115831	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115832	I see this as a clear indication from the Enhedslisten that, of course, you do not have confidence in such a government. Enhedslisten has confidence in a government which, through gross negligence, commits an illegal act that costs taxpayers 19 billion. kr., and closes down an entire profession that is legal and not a profession, Enhedslisten is particularly pleased, but which after all was legal and followed the laws that were? If another government, through gross negligence, illegally closes down such a profession, can the Enhedslisten continue to support such a government?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115908	Well, first of all, I should like to express my regret that Mr. Morten Dahlin considered it an insult. I considered it more as findings. In addition, I would like to say that, firstly, there was a legal basis for killing mink within the zones. This is about the minks that were outside the zones. I thought that was a real decision. I think it was right that there was a legal basis for this. Then it is clear that, for us, there is a very significant difference between whether it is a concrete knowledge, one is aware that one has been brought in or whether this is a matter of negligence. It is clear that there is a very large difference as to whether it is a concrete knowledge that lands on a minister's table. the cost of Mogens Jensen's ministerial office or whether it is an expectation that action will be taken on it. So it is clear that there must also be clear knowledge before one can react.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211115956	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no further comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211120018	Thank you for that, President. We are here today on the basis of a violation of law. We stand here because we have a government headed by Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen, who illegally laid down an entire profession and destroyed the daily lives of hundreds of families, and although the Prime Minister became aware that it was illegal, the Prime Minister continued to break the law and laid down an entire mink business. Subsequently, it turns out that one of the government's most central ministers, namely the Minister for Health, was directly informed that it took the law to kill all minks. The Minister for Health had approved a note stating that there should be a legal basis. It is a very ugly process, and it shows that it is not just the Prime Minister, but the entire government that is trying to deceive the Granskningskommission and the Folketing and thus the Danes. Police and defense were ordered illegally. Texts were erased. There should be no doubt that we are left with the impression that the Prime Minister has actively opposed the Commission of the French Republic, set up by the Danish Parliament on behalf of the Danes in an attempt to bring the truth to light. It is inconvenient, and it is not worthy of the rule of law. That is why the Conservative People's Party is looking forward to greater clarity on how the Prime Minister has ensured that all of us have undoubtedly witnessed one of the greatest political scandals of Danish history. Now we look forward to getting the answers. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211120147	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211120157	Thank you. The Minkskan Valley is one of the biggest scandals in recent times. The Social Democratic Government forced without a legal basis murder through a decision completely unparalleled in Danish history. The closure of the mink business hit everyone unexpectedly and hard. The government broke the law by not having a legal basis when all mink farmers were ordered to put their animals to death, and furthermore it continued when it was clear that there was no legal basis. It is by no means worthy of the rule of law. It was shameful to witness, and I witnessed it on the sidelines without being involved. The Minkskandalen is symptomatic of how the government has acted during the covid crisis. It's sad. Preliminary studies, including ensuring that all relevant information from, inter alia, The Prime Minister's Office was transferred to the Investigation Commission, which has so far been completed. The Commission is now writing on the final report. The case of the deleted text messages is deeply strange. It seems that it has not been possible to recreate them. If there are further opportunities to test, New Citizens would like to support it. Otherwise, we must recognise that they have been lost. The government says that it would like to see them recreated, yet the practice of automatic deletion has continued. The Commission of the French Republic is anchored in the Folketing. It is also the Folketing that ultimately receives the final report which describes the findings of the Review Commission. If ministers are to be held accountable, it is the Folketing that will then have to proceed with it. When the review commission's report is available, New Civil Service work will be carried out to bring the government's relevant ministers, including the Prime Minister, to justice. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211120343	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief remarks to the rapporteur of the new citizens, and I can give the floor to the rapporteur of the Christian Democrats, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Jens Rohde. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211120357	Thank you. I would like to say that the idea of a committee of inquiry and a committee of inquiry was a brilliant idea. It is very immodest; I know that, but I myself wrote both ideas and drafts of how it should be, in fact, a late night hour ahead of a group meeting in the Radical Left, where I then got it presented there. I think Mrs Samira Nawa can confirm that. And then we went to the Chamber with that idea, and all the parties except the Radical Left voted against. We ended up with a committee of inquiry, and we ended up with a committee of inquiry. Why? Because we needed a more dynamic and faster-working body than what existed, which would be stronger than a legal investigation based on written sources, but which was not such a commission to work for years. We also needed to have, at least in my optics, a body which was not under the control of the Ministry of Justice, but under the control of the Danish Parliament and thus established parliamentary bodies. We got it. So the basic substance of having a committee of inquiry and a committee of inquiry still seems to me to be as valid as it was then. But such an examination committee and such a commission are based on respect for those four virtues that are drawn up here, wisdom, justice, courage and then the last one over there: self - control. And self - control can be a difficult thing; I shall be the first to admit that. But if we do not have the self-control in the Folketing to respect that when the investigating commission works, we let the investigating commission work, and if the investigating commission then encounters problems and comes and asks the examining committee to get new tools, then we look at it in committee and, in addition, we keep our hands off, then we completely undermine the institution that a unanimous parliament has decided to set up. If the examination committee and the examination committee are to be added to numerous consultations in all the committees in the world, in discussions here in the Folketing and in ongoing accusations and moreover pre-discounted decisions on what to do after the examination committee, then the whole basis of a committee of inquiry and a committee of inquiry is erode. It is simply a question of credibility and whether we want this institution that we have set up, whether we want it to be a well-functioning body. You may have doubts about this when you follow the debate on an ongoing basis, when you look at the conclusions that are drawn in advance, both partial conclusions and full conclusions. That is why my request must be exactly what I always learned from Mrs. Birthe Rønn Hornbech, when she was the rapporteur for the law in the Left, that when there is a case in court or some other authority, you keep your mouth shut, sir. Jens Rohde, awaiting decision. And that is what we should be doing here. Let the Commission work now, and when it has completed its work, there will naturally be a political discussion, because there will be something that we will have to decide on. But it is not today, and that is why I am not going to say any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211120836	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211120841	I am listening, and the rapporteur always knows this with great dedication when the rapporteur speaks. Even if he feels the urge to invoke the four virtues, it is known that something heartfelt is coming. What I'd just like to ask you about now, sir. Jens Rohde, as the one who has stood for the entire project, followed it very closely whether it is Mr. Jens Rohde's view that the information which has now been provided to the committee of inquiry would have been provided if the Folketing had not acted, as the Folketing did, among other things. in relation to the provision of telephones and text messages, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211120912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211120913	Well, I note that we have a commission, and if the commission is exactly like Mr. Simpson... Peder Hvelplund so rightly says that it had wanted us to go in and put in new instruments, the Commission has had every opportunity to ask us to do so. But the truth is that now that we have discussed whether we should provide new instruments in relation to the text messages, we have actually been asked to keep the cuts away. We have been asked to let the Commission do its job because that is what it is set up in the world. And that's the bottom line, and that's what counts.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211120956	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211120957	No, sir. Jens Rohde, is not the truth rather that it is precisely because of journalists' access to documents, committee questions and Article 20 questions that it came at all for a day that extensive text messages had been made and that it is precisely because of the possibilities that the Folketing could then put pressure on the government so that the committee of inquiry became aware of at least part of it? Then you have not been able or wanted to restore something. I fully agree that there should be restraint; I also stressed the principle of arm's length in my first speech. But is it not also true to say that the Folketing and the press had been completely apathetic, as Mr. Jens Rohde is setting up, so had the investigation commission had a worse basis to conclude from?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121038	I don't know if I can conclude. Well, we have a committee of inquiry, so that of course the Committee of Inquiry can follow this on a regular basis. That's the point, just so it wasn't over in the Justice Department. So that part's fine. But it is always in dialogue with the Commission, and we have, of course, had many different people in to advise us. And, of course, there is a dynamic in it, and in fact there was also supposed to be a dynamic. But we must constantly focus on self-control in this if we are not to erode the institution and credibility of the institution. Because I would like to see the Committee of Inquiry and the possibility of setting up fast-working investigative committees also being a tool in the future, but it would not be if we were not very careful about how we act in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121128	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde of the Christian Democrats. There are no more brief comments. And that is how the rapporteur has been implemented, and I can give the floor to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121151	So far, so good. What is probably left after the talk today, apart from the fact that we have been far around, is probably to repeat that work has been started on creating common rules for the storage of text messages. When this has not happened before, it is probably based on the fact that the focus is on e-mails and that the interest in text messages in connection with the Commission is new to previous commissions. When it doesn't happen fast, it's because it's a complicated job. technical because unlike emails there is no central storage, but only storage on the devices. And that's why you have to find out how we can read and store them. We have an ambition that we can have preliminary guidelines in place here during the first half of this year and then go further and have the final guidelines in place afterwards. I think that's what I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121332	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments to be made to the Minister, and that is only from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121337	Thank you. This is just to map out the historical process, that is, what has happened in connection with the survey, mostly in relation to what Mr. Jens Rohde mentioned earlier. Because I have the experience that at least some of the members of the government share that view, Mr. Jens Rohde has that it is untimely when the Danish Parliament and Parliament's institutions assist in getting things out. And there I just want to know if the Minister of Justice can't confirm that a newspaper I think it was the daily B.T. And it was only then that there was a positive indication as a result of the press awareness from the Commission that one would now look at the case for oneself, that the Ombudsman then chose to resign. Can't the Minister of Justice confirm that incident?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121425	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121426	I think that if you want to see the course of events in connection with text messages and the mink case, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121445	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121446	I do not know whether it is because the sound is bad or the content is, but I simply did not understand that answer. So I'm gonna try one more time. Well, it's not true that B.T. found out that text messages had been deleted in the Prime Minister's Office and elsewhere and wrote an article about it; the Ombudsman, i.e. the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament, went into the case, and prompted by the elected examining commission then to ask specifically about these areas, after which of course the Ombudsman withdrew the emotional horns? Isn't that correct, and isn't that a good picture of that if not B.T. and the Danish Parliament and the Ombudsman had responded, so this study had run with an incomplete data base, namely the deleted text messages, without any idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121526	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121527	No, I think so, sir. Morten Messerschmidt understood the answer and is also well aware that if you go back to the press conference I mentioned, you will find that there has been systematic and close cooperation between the government and the Commission to provide the material necessary for the Commission to carry out its investigation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121549	The next brief remark is to Mrs Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121553	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister for Justice whether this particular case is not a good opportunity to return to the Public Service Act, in view of the fact that the Left says "and I do not know how much I should put into it that they also want to help change the Public Service Act." Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121613	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121614	Yes, but we are currently debating the Public Service Act, which is just a settlement, and that is why the conciliation parties, the Social Democratic Party, the Left and the Conservatives are negotiating.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121624	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121626	But then I would like to ask in another way: I have not heard the Socialists or the government at any time be in favour of changing the public law, so is the government now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121639	Basically, we think that the public law is good as it is. But we are negotiating with our conciliation partners who have not terminated the settlement. So so far, the Public Service Act is complete as it does fully supported by the Social Democracy, the Left and the Conservatives. Now we have a talk with the Left and Conservatives about whether there are some changes that are necessary and relevant. There has also been a meeting with other parties about exactly the same thing, because if we are going to move down that road and change the public law, it is of course also relevant to look wider. But, like all other political processes where there is a conciliation, of course, you start with the conciliation parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121713	The next brief remark is from Mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121715	Thank you. I have noticed that the government has also been upset that the text messages could not be recreated, and that then prompts me to ask the Minister for Justice if it has been given the idea that there might be others who could recreate these texts than the police.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121737	Yeah, we do. And as I explained in my speech, one has also heard whether the Defence Intelligence Service felt that there were other tools that should be used and that were relevant. And that has not been the case. We trust our police and our intelligence services and that if anyone can handle this task, it's them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121759	Sir. Per Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121800	One of the reasons I ask is that there are talented people sitting around in many places. And we witnessed at a time some years ago that there were hackers who broke into the driving licence register, which of course contains lots of confidential information about millions of Danes. So it might be that there might be some people around who are able to solve the problem and recreate these text messages.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121823	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121824	I guess it's completely unrealistic to imagine that when both Police Intelligence and Defence Intelligence say it's the relevant tools used here, you should be able to buy other tools or find others that could do better. I have full confidence in our police, and I have full confidence in our defenses. I wish the author's party had the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121850	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121854	Thank you. It is to follow up on the issue of the Public Service Act. In fact, we have some media negotiations in progress, and they include at least all the conciliation parties on the law on public disclosure in the administration. And in the government's media show, the courage has actually been felt, and I would like to commend the government for taking the media liability law under consideration as well. I mean, you'd like to discuss it. It is usually under the Prime Minister's authority, since the Prime Minister is the minister of the press. But it is now over in the discussions of us media rapporteurs. There you could make the connection that when you say that we want to look at the media liability law, we are also looking at the tools we give our journalists to be our watchdog and looking at the law on public access to the administration in the same context. Couldn't that be a tempting thought?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121953	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211121954	But there is, of course, a conciliation on the law of the public, and the parties that form part of the conciliation must agree before you go down a road to change it. And what so far is agreed among the Social Democrats, the Left and the Conservatives, who are those who are part of the conciliation, is that we in the circle of Social Democrats, the Left and the Conservatives are talking about what would be relevant changes. I have also chosen to reach out to you other parties who may have good and exciting ideas about how the Public Service Act can be designed forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211122025	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday 22 February 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211122050	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211122119	Thank you for the floor and thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. With the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion for a resolution suggest that the government should undertake a thorough analysis of Denmark's attachment to, and obligations under, the European Convention on Human Rights and the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. That sounds very innocent, but in reality the motion for a resolution is, I suppose, roughly based on two issues. Firstly, to examine Denmark's possibility of withdrawing from the Convention. Secondly, to look at the possibilities of not complying with the rules as interpreted by the court. Neither can the government support, but I'll get back to it. It is my basic view that as politicians we are elected to speak politics and not to speak law. Conversely, the courts are there to deal with law and not politics. As politicians, of course, we act within a legal framework; the framework is primarily provided by the Constitution, but as you know, Denmark has also taken on a number of international obligations, including the European Convention on Human Rights, which the government believes we must of course respect. For the government there is no doubt that strong international cooperation is essential. Not least for a small country like Denmark, it is important that the same basic principles and rules apply to everyone. That is also the reason why the government cannot support the resolution today, because the fact is that if the government supported the resolution, it could be seen as if we were considering stepping out of our international commitments, and we obviously do not. In my view, it is the right place to stand as a responsible government, and that is also what previous governments have thought, namely that it is not in Denmark's interest to cast doubt on the international legal order. The government has only presented a foreign and security policy strategy last week, in which, above all, we have set our values as a point of reference. If Denmark is to become more involved in the fight for democratic values and human rights, it requires that we stand guard over the common rules of the game. It is to Denmark's advantage that we have a world of equal cooperation between countries in binding communities. One does not have to open one's eyes much to see that world order is constantly under pressure and is also under pressure at the moment. A responsible government should not cast doubt on Denmark's support for the international legal order. I could then end my speech here, but I would like to dwell a little on the fundamental theme of the motion for a resolution, namely the relationship between politics and law, in particular Denmark's international obligations. Because, as I have said before, I believe it is a fundamental problem that the Court of Human Rights has for a long time pushed the limit of what is law and has instead moved into areas which should be regulated by elected representatives. In my opinion, we must not be afraid to take up the debate on our international conventions. We must dare to say this loud and clear when we believe that the interpretation of the Convention on Human Rights or other conventions leads to results that cannot be explained or defended. It is a fundamental problem that the Court of Human Rights has delivered judgments, which I would describe as activist. We have seen this in several cases, including cases against Denmark. Over the years, the Court of Human Rights has expanded the content of the otherwise very scarce wording of the Convention on Human Rights. It has had the consequence that today the Convention has found its way into many corners of national legislation. There is therefore also reason to pay constant attention to the interpretation of the Court of Human Rights. There may be a need to challenge this interpretation. This applies legally, but it also applies to a large extent politically. That is also the view I have expressed in the debate on logging, where I have openly stated that I disagree with the case law of the European Court of Justice, but I would like to oppose the similarity between disagreeing with, for example, the case law of the European Court of Justice. Some of the practices of the European Court of Justice or the Court of Human Rights and some of the views that are generally opposed to the European Court of Justice, the European Union or the European Convention on Human Rights as such. It is far too unmanageable to go to the debate in this way. In a democracy such as the Danish one, we must be able to debate the way in which we have chosen to organise ourselves, including in the European Union and in the Council of Europe, where the European Convention on Human Rights belongs. I would even go so far as to say that it is absolutely essential that we dare to take the debate if we are to maintain public support for international institutions and conventions. In the same way, there is no contradiction between being a member of the organisations and being critical of them, on the contrary. If the premise is that we are full Members, we can make our voice heard all the more strongly. That paragraph does not, of course, recognise the motion for a resolution. For example: It is proposed that consideration should be given to the possibility for Denmark to withdraw from the Convention and then enter with reservations. I would therefore like to take this opportunity today to tell you a little about what the government is doing to influence and address the activist interpretations of the Court of Human Rights. When it comes to the government's concrete strategy to challenge the conventions, we believe that we should use the political and legal tools that we know work in practice. As an example, in the field of expulsion, which we in Denmark have had a special focus for a number of years on following closely whether the Copenhagen Declaration of 2018 has the effect that it wanted. As you know, the Copenhagen Declaration was the declaration made during the Danish Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. The statement states that the Court of Human Rights must be reluctant to override the assessment made by national courts in relation to a specific case. It is still too early to conclude on the effect of the Copenhagen Declaration, but in my view there are indications that the declaration bears fruit. In its practice of expulsion against the background of crime, the Court of Human Rights clearly stresses that the national courts are loyal to the criteria of the Court of Human Rights as to when to expel a criminal foreigner. In this context, the Court of Human Rights refers to the fact that when the balance has been made by the national authorities in accordance with those criteria, there will be serious reasons why the Court of Human Rights does not replace the judgments of the national courts with its own; the so-called principle of subsidiarity is applied. Fortunately, it is also the case that in most cases Denmark is successful. In my view, this is an indication that the efforts made with the Copenhagen Declaration bear fruit. At the same time, the government focuses on maintaining the importance of the state's margin of discretion by having an open and ongoing dialogue both with other Member States and with the Court of Human Rights. The government is looking for, among other things: restricting the activist interpretation of the Court of Human Rights by making submissions in other cases. This is what we do in cases which are of major importance to Denmark and which are raised in the Grand Chamber of the Court of Human Rights. In such cases, we typically argue for a less far-reaching interpretation of the Convention on Human Rights, which will allow more room for manoeuvre for the Member States. There has been a substantial intensification of efforts in this area in recent years. Since 2018, 11 Danish third-party submissions have been made, 8 of which have decreased during this government's term of office. It can be compared to the fact that only one third party submission was made in the period 2002 to 2017. We can see that these third-party posts actually matter. The Court of Human Rights listens to and takes into account third-party submissions. We saw that, for example. clearly in a case against Belgium as of May 2020, where the Court of Human Rights explicitly referred to the third party submissions made by the Member States in its explanatory statement. In the case, the Court of Human Rights held that the refusal of a visa to a Syrian family who had applied for a visa at the Belgian Embassy in Lebanon for entry to Belgium for asylum was not a violation of the Convention. Another way for the government to conduct dialogue is by continually encouraging other countries to make third party submissions in support of Denmark. This is what the government is doing in the Danish cases pending before the Supreme Chamber of the Court of Human Rights. In other words, the government is doing exactly what we decided here in the Folketing just over a year ago, together with the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, with proposals for adoption no. V 50 from January 2021: The Danish Parliament notes that the Government considers that constant attention needs to be paid to developments at the European Court of Human Rights (the Court) and, in particular, to the Court's interpretation of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) in the specific cases. The Government is working to limit, as far as possible, the activism of the court, including by intervening in the matters of principle before the Grand Chamber of Justice. The Government should continue the strengthened focus of the Copenhagen Declaration on Denmark continuing to challenge the Court's interpretation of the ECHR, and continue the dialogue on and with the Court forward-looking. In conclusion, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution once again. After all, the proposal concerns a subject which is very close to my heart. This is not least about sticking to a line between law and politics and ensuring that we elected representatives have the relevant political decision-making room. I believe that we are doing this in the best and most responsible way by sticking to the fact that Denmark is a member of, for example, Denmark. The European Convention on Human Rights and, at the same time, use it as an entry ticket to engage in a critical dialogue. Instead of tearing down cooperation and resigning, the government believes that we should be critical and reform from within, because as I have explained, it is best for Denmark to be part of a rule-based international legal order. But there is certainly reason to be critical, which is why the government is following developments in this area very closely and is focusing on Denmark continuing to challenge the Court of Human Rights' interpretation of the Convention on Human Rights where appropriate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123155	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister, and that is only from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123200	The Minister will remember that I have repeatedly commended him for at least being the first Minister of Justice to seriously criticise the way in which the European Court of Human Rights applies the Convention. That praise still stands out, even if I have to say today that it was a lax speech, because this proposal does not add up to what is the Danish People's Party's main wish, namely to withdraw us from the convention in question. That is why this proposal does not alter the international legal order referred to by the Minister for Justice at all. What this proposal is proposing is precisely to clarify what opportunities we have within the Convention to put an end to the attack on the Danish people's rule which emanates from the Strasbourg Court. I have to say that it is deeply distressing if the Minister's position is that it does not want to be clarified. Does it really mean that the Minister is critical of the court on the one hand, but on the other hand does not want to have an independent assessment of what we in the Folketing can do to get a looser connection with the convention and the court?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123305	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123306	No, that's not how it's supposed to be. It must be understood that the grip that the government seems to be relevant to take is those which, together with a majority in the Danish Parliament, we decided last year, first and foremost, to use our opportunity to challenge the court's interpretation by the court through third-party submissions and through the critical dialogue that is thus held to the Copenhagen Declaration and the Copenhagen Declaration's ambition to ensure that the court turns down the activism.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123343	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123343-2	In other words, the declaration made by the Court's own President has no meaning whatsoever! It's very, very heroic, Minister. What we are proposing is of course, within the framework of the Convention, to find ways of loosening the grip. It could, for example, be done. I would like to say that we are only following the judgments where Denmark is a party or where there are clearly comparable countries. That might be to say that you only follow the decisions of the Grand Chamber. It could be to repeal the 1992 incorporation law so that it became a common foreign document, a general convention, as we know it from other contexts. After all, we operate with legalism in Denmark. The Minister knows all about that. Why is it that some of the possibilities will not be sought at all when the Minister, on all possible occasions, is criticizing the court?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123420	In fact, I think that the example of the cases in which Denmark is a party is that it is only those that we should follow • is very telling, because the legal order is here, as elsewhere, on not only the written word but also on what the case law is. And if you are not loyal to the case law that exists, the legal system will pervert.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123442	The next brief remark is to Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123448	I just have to be sure if I really heard correctly: did the Minister say that there are indications that membership and the existence of the European Convention on Human Rights bear fruit? And if that is what the Minister said, could you swing up to say something a little more powerful about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123506	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123507	In fact, I believe that what is being referred to is that I said that there are indications that the Copenhagen Declaration But fundamentally I am in favour of our membership of the European Convention on Human Rights. I think that what happened in the wake of the Second World War, when the Western world succeeded in combating totalitarian systems, that is, fascism and Nazism, and the subsequent struggle against communism, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, human rights are at stake. was on a society, a legal order, an international legal order that stands for law and order and not for the right of the strongest and most brutal. So I am very, very strong in favour of us sticking to the fact that human rights are something that belongs to our legal system, our way of life and our way of being.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123607	Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123609	I'm very glad I heard the wrong thing then... other things I thought I would have surprised myself too. But to follow up: What does the Minister think would be the consequence if Denmark resigned from the convention, as proposed by the Danish People's Party? What consequences would this have both for Denmark and for the human rights situation in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123629	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123630	It's a very hypothetical question, all the time I don't think we should resign. But what is basically the problem of not being part of international law is that you run the risk of international law becoming the right of the strong and the most brutal, and that is clearly to the detriment of a small country like Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123652	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123655	Thank you. I thought it was an excellent speech. At least that was very, very interesting. Unfortunately, you don't have five minutes to unfold your question, but this is so complicated that it's a little difficult just to blow off your question from the hip, but it's the one that makes a distinction between activism, law and politics. Well, the conventions are also evolving, and so I would like to try to print the Minister for Justice when I have no more time. It is, of course, the case that the Human Rights Office has made a new comment. I believe that it is called recital 36 to Article 6, but it is of course the case of the right to free abortion, which has now been established as a fundamental right, and then it is added: if the life and health of women are at risk. This is a dynamic development, because the right to free abortion has never been described as a fundamental right. We see it this way at home, because the right that was given at the time has become cultural for our society, but that is not the way it is out there. Does the Minister for Justice not think that it is actually an excellent form of activism that this principle should now be laid down for women?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123817	I think it is incredibly good that we live in a world where women can control their own bodies, including the right to abortion. I think it is really nice that the rules that we have in Denmark are made by the Danish Parliament and not by the Supreme Court. I wish that such rules were also created on the international stage by politicians and not by courts, and that is where I have a problem with activism. It is that the courts do not have the legitimacy that has been elected by the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123852	Sir. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123853	Yes, but the whole point of that is that we have preliminary rulings, because that is what we have to do. The Minister of Justice is also aware that this is how it works in Russia. That is also very much how it works in the United States because there is no tradition of the same detailed laws as we, for example. has here at home. That is why these tests are being carried out in the courts, and they then take a preliminary ruling. This sometimes leads us to say something that strengthens a right. And when I take it up with the abortion, it is because it is a traditional value, and we stand together on that, and then it is good if it is also formulated at international level. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123948	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211123949	It is not the content that is the problem, yes, it may be; I should not be able to say that, but I am a strong supporter of free abortion. What is the problem is that if we live in a system where what is to be law and law is created by courts, then we risk losing the democratic legitimacy that states that it is the elected representatives who decide what is to be law and law. I fully recognise that there are legal systems that lean much more towards law created by the courts than we do in Denmark. I just don't think it's a good way to get right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211124033	Thank you to the Minister of Justice. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. That is how the rapporteur can begin, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Beazley. Bjørn Brandenborg. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211124049	Thank you. This is certainly not the first time that the proposers have put the discussion on conventions on the agenda in this Chamber, and this time the motion for a resolution is calling on the government to undertake a thorough analysis of Denmark's attachment to, and obligations to, the European Convention on Human Rights and the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. The essence of the motion for a resolution is that it must be examined how Denmark can withdraw completely or otherwise from our international obligations. That is the real purpose of the motion for a resolution, and it is also well known that this is the position of the authors of the motion for a resolution. I would like to start by making it quite clear that we are in favour of international cooperation and of conventions. We believe that Denmark, as the relatively small country we are, has a great interest in having a strong international legal order where there are clear rules of the game that are common to all of us. Therefore, we cannot support a proposal which basically aims to examine how we get out or reduce that cooperation. Having said that, I think it is appropriate to have a debate on the courts, and I certainly do not think that we should be worried about discussing international conventions and what they bring with them. For, as the Minister for Justice has said, there is a side to the battle when the Court of Human Rights uses its dynamic interpretation as an activist and spreads into all corners of the national legislation of the Member States. I think this is a risky development, because it brings the Court of Justice out of step with the initial conditions and, ultimately, with the Member States. And we may end up with a real risk that the individual Member States will eventually not be able to see themselves within the framework. We do not want that. But that is certainly not the same as wishing Denmark out of the conventions that we basically believe are for the good. On the contrary, it is precisely because we want to maintain close international cooperation that we must continue to have the debate. So maybe I'm not so surprisingly in agreement with the government's approach to this issue. We must be part of the international legal order and, at the same time, we must follow developments closely, give our opinion and challenge when we think that the court goes too far. But voting for such an explanation as the performances suggest is much more than that. This is a signal that we could consider stepping out of our obligations. So even if this proposal for an investigation may seem harmless, it marks a crossroads in Danish politics: is it by its international obligations, or does one basically want to find a way out? Of course, as a responsible governmental and governmental party, we are determined not to wish to withdraw. That is why we cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211124333	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211124337	That is, of course, what can be said, just as the masks are falling today, because now, since this government joined, we have heard all sorts of critical remarks about the European Court of Human Rights and interpretations of the Convention, and at least I understand that on this day we have chosen to say that we do not intend to do anything about it. Yes, you make a little third-party submissions and other things when there are cases before the court that may be relevant to Denmark, but something really systemic changed you don't want. I think that will be very, very good to spread to Denmark, because then we can at least say that the spin number ends today. I'm just gonna ask Mr. Knox. Bjørn Brandenborg to confirm that the Social Democratic Party appears to be opposed to any change in connection with court practice, whether or not it is about e.g. the judgments which are given weight are narrowed to those countries which have an immediate comparability with Denmark or where we are party to the case or something similar. In other words, the Social Democrats do not want an analysis of the possibility of a genuine change in membership of the Court and the Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211124439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211124440	Thank you for the question. But should we not just stick to what the proposers want us to do with this? 'Cause now Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, that it is all about looking at whether there are opportunities for us to do things a little differently. However, what it says is that the investigation should be carried out, is whether Denmark can withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights without risking sanctions from other parties or from EU countries and then perhaps re-enter with some reservations. There we say on the part of the Social Democrats and the government that this is not the way we think this work should be done. We are in favour of there being an international legal order, of doing so internationally. We have then said something about the way you can influence it. As the Minister said, we are happy to do so through the Copenhagen Declaration and third-party contributions. It is also done by having meetings with the legal representatives, with the President of the Court and so on. From down there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211124535	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211124536	This proposal is not about resigning from the European Convention on Human Rights. I have made that proposal several times, but there may have been other rapporteurs on it, so Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg has nothing to do with it. This is about getting Denmark's ties, our humble submission to court practices reduced, and there are several things that can be done, and that is what this proposal aims to have an explanation of the political consequences of doing. So I just have to understand one thing, because it makes things a lot more honest, and then I don't have to go around praising the Justice Minister anymore, because it's all just a spin, a joke. I just have to understand: the social democracy does not want a changed link with the European Convention or Court of Human Rights. Really?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211124617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211124618	After all, the Minister has said on several occasions, and today too, that there is no problem in criticising decisions that one disagrees with, nor in trying to influence, among other things. by making different posts. But I must also just say to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, that just as you cannot be half pregnant, you cannot be half in the conventions and in the work that is going on. That is why we are fully in favour of this work, and precisely because we are part of the conventions, we can also play a critical role in influencing the work on the conventions, and the government is doing so. Fortunately, I had time to hear that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in his question before also had time to praise the Minister for having made contributions, and that is one of them. some of what the government has addressed and which the previous government has not done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211124701	Thank you, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democrat rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211124712	The Left is in favour of human rights, both as a principle and in the form of the European Convention on Human Rights. We believe that people have fundamental rights: the right to life, the right to avoid torture and the right to speak, believe and think as they please. And for us as a citizen, for us as liberals, it is obvious that such rights are widely recognised, not only here in Denmark, but also in many parts of the rest of the world. When it comes to the European Convention on Human Rights, it is obvious to the Left that Denmark, as a small country, has a very great interest in being part of an international rule-based society. For the alternative is an uncertain world order based solely on the right of the strong, and although it can hurt a little in self-understanding, we just have to acknowledge that we in Denmark are far from being strong. So it is undoubtedly in Denmark's clear national interest that there are international agreements and that Denmark is part of them. This also applies to the European Convention on Human Rights. That is why the Left does not wish to withdraw from the Convention on Human Rights. We will not be supporting this, not today and not tomorrow. That is the very clear position of the Left, and it will remain so. Has this convention been important in Denmark? Yeah. That was for example. a judgment by the Court of Human Rights, which was given free trade union elections in Denmark, and I am quite convinced that if it were not contrary to human rights, the present government would carry out trade union coercion with a snap. It was also the court which, back in 1994, ensured greater protection of freedom of expression. Here the Court of Human Rights stated in the so-called green jacket case that freedom of expression preceded the Danish paragraph of racism. So when it comes to quite important issues such as freedom of association and freedom of expression, the Convention has made a concrete and positive difference here in Denmark. But, unfortunately, everything is not cheerful and old. Because we also recognise that there are judgments in the court and perhaps in particular the subsequent interpretations of the judgments which are obviously not in Denmark's interest. The biggest challenge is Denmark's inability to expel criminal foreigners, where we have seen several cases where criminal foreigners have been allowed to stay in Denmark with direct reference to the Convention. We think that is a problem. For here too the position of the Left is clear: if you come to Denmark and commit serious crime, you have to be deported. We are also convinced that it was not the authors of the human rights declaration's wish that the subsequent convention should be used to protect the perpetrators at the expense of their victims. It can, for example, be done. have not been intended that the right to family life should protect grand criminals from being expelled to even other European countries, to great inconvenience for both the victim and Danish society as a whole. These things are hard to explain and defend. That is why, when we were in government ourselves, we started work on the so-called Copenhagen Declaration, which was supposed to settle some of these dynamic interpretations. We have a desire to build on this work, and that is why the policy of the Left is that we here in Denmark should challenge the conventions and, in particular, the dynamic interpretation of them in the courts when necessary. In the specific motion for a resolution we are debating today, the DF proposes that Denmark's obligations and opportunities should be clarified in the context of the European Convention on Human Rights. In the Left we are convinced that such an explanation will show that it is in Denmark's interest to have joined the ECHR. So we welcome such an explanation. The Danish People's Party also lists a number of specific questions they want answered in the discussion, for example what consequences it will have in relation to other EU countries, if we resign and if it is possible to withdraw, make reservations, and rejoin. We in the Left welcome the fact that we are opposed to the withdrawal of the Convention, because this will give us a more factual debate on this issue. In fact, we also want a number of other things to be clarified, and that is why we are going to table some amendments. We want to clarify the positive aspects of the impact of the ECHR on Denmark, and we want to clarify developments in case law and what opportunities Denmark has to challenge the dynamic interpretation in the court. Therefore, we do not see this motion for a resolution tabled by the DF as a first step towards opting out of the Convention on Human Rights or the international community. It would be the wrong clue to go down. However, we can support resolving a number of issues, both those raised by DF and those on which we ourselves intend to table amendments. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125216	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125220	I would just like to sign for it, I think, very balanced and proper rapporteur speech, as Mr. Morten Dahlin held. I fully recognise that our parties have different views on Denmark's international obligations, both in relation to the Council of Europe and in relation to the European Union. And that, in spite of this, we are able to look at the proposals that we are making and say that we are putting it right aside, because we have a common quantity that says that there is something in the way things are working today that is not good, and we would like to see that clarified, I think, is very, very constructive and positive • much more, I would almost say mature than what we are experiencing from the government at the moment. So from here, just thank you for allowing us in the blue block to be sincere in that there is something we disagree on, and that is the way it is. Then we let the voters decide who should be greatest and at least etc. But there is also a common quantity where we can be constructive. I think that is very positive. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125325	Well, thank you for the rose; we welcome it in the Left. Because it is true that there are differences and that there are similarities. We have said quite clearly that we believe that it is one hundred per cent in Denmark's national interest to have acceded to the European Convention on Human Rights and we are not going to sign up to it. At the same time, we have addressed some of the challenges that are, and we have done so both when we were in government and now when we are in opposition, and we will do so when we sit in government after the next elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125351	The next brief remark is from Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125354	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. First of all, I am glad that the Left in the Chair says that they support the conventions 100 per cent. I have to ask, because now I understand that the Left backs this investigation and then has some additions to it: is it not a little strange to investigate something that is not supported? If you want to investigate something, isn't it because you want to change something? Otherwise, there is no need to investigate. Then it is something about the fact that it is a waste of time; it is a waste of money. That is what I think I heard from the rapporteur earlier. So why do you want to investigate something when you don't want to change it? Then I have to ask again: what this study is going to examine is exactly what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt, as the very first point, has written: can Denmark withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights without at the same time risking sanctions from the other parties or EU Member States? Why is it that the Left wants to help investigate it when it is not the policy of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125456	Thank you, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg. It is absolutely true that the policy of the Left is crystal clear: we do not believe that Denmark should withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights. It's crystal clear. We believe that it is in Denmark's clear interest to be involved. In addition, I also said in my speech that we do not just support the Convention, we also support the principle of human rights. We think that is quite reasonable; as liberals we think that is good, so that these rights to believe, think and speak are something we are working to spread throughout the world. So not only the convention, but also the principles we support. Then it is a question of whether to back an investigation. As far as I know, the Social Democratic Party was then to settle Denmark's relationship with the defence reserve, but yet we see a government that does not want to step out of the defence reserve today. We in the Left are convinced that if Denmark's relationship with the ECHR is established, it will show that it is to Denmark's uncontested advantage to be a member. It will then give a more fact-based debate and then we can take an enlightened debate on the basis of it. We are convinced that, in this way, the explanation will seem to support what is the policy of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125603	It is a little special, I think, that the rapporteur is writing the conclusion of a study which has not been done now. I do not understand why you want to be part of a study by the Left. What remains, then, is that what needs to be investigated is whether we can withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights. I fully agree with what the rapporteur says, namely that what it wants to show is, of course, that it is not conventions that are the problem, but that it is the activism of the Court of Justice, which both the Minister for Justice and myself also mentioned just now. That is why I have to say that I am very surprised that the Left would like to cast doubt on whether they support the Convention or on the Court of Justice, by supporting an investigation in which one of the points to be examined is whether one intends to step out. I think that's very strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125643	However, there is no doubt as to what the Left thinks about the European Convention on Human Rights. The Left believes that it is in Denmark's uncontested interest to have acceded to the European Convention on Human Rights. It is not our policy to withdraw Denmark from the Convention. It is not today, it is not tomorrow, and it will not be the day after tomorrow. It's settled. To make an analysis of some of the issues that DF raises and some of the things that we ourselves have intended to table amendments on, we think that is sensible, because it will provide a more fact-based debate, as has been the case in a large number of other cases through the history of political Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125718	The next brief remark is to Mr. Jens Rohde, the Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125724	I forgot what I wanted to ask. I'm sorry! I just need to get my brain back on before I open my mouth. It can be an advantage sometimes. Yes, sir. Morten Dahlin made an excellent speech and, as a former Leftman, I find it reassuring to hear such a speech from Mr Dahlin. Morten Dahlin. But there's one thing I want to say. So, I think that every once in a while we all see that when there are judgments from the European Court of Human Rights, you want to have two heads to deal with, that is, some of which you do not understand. But that sentence, as Mr. Morten Dahlin uses about what is in Denmark's interest, does not have much to do with the meaning of the Court of Human Rights, because the errand of the Court of Human Rights is not to act in the interests of nations, but in the interests of the individual. So it was just to mention that the Court of Human Rights has not been brought into the world for the sake of Denmark's interest, and that is where I think we need to make a distinction if we are to assess the validity of the decisions of the Court of Human Rights. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125842	It is quite true that it is not for that reason that the European Court of Human Rights was set up and that we adopted conventions, and a good example of this is that there are also large parts of the Convention which deal with the prohibition of torture, which is not, of course, a debate we have very much in Denmark, and fortunately for that, but which is, of course, a debate that exists in other countries. And, as I started my speech by saying, because I am a liberal, we look at it in a positive way, if we can extend some of these to me obvious rights, that is, the right to life, the right to avoid torture, the right to speak, believe and think freely to more people, not just to those who are lucky enough to be born in Denmark. Because we also see the principle of human rights: that all people have fundamental rights, because they are people, as something we must work for and disseminate. I think that is an old classical liberal principle, and it is, moreover, also, and Mr President. Jens Rohde then confirms, if he gets the floor again in a moment, an old Left principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211125942	Then we would like to thank the rapporteurs. There are no more brief comments. And then we welcome Mr. Jan Bjergskov Larsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211130007	Thank you, sir. President. I am here today because our rapporteur in this area, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, cannot be here. So I shall now read out her speech on the motion for a resolution. We have taken the debate on the Court of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights before, and we are happy to take it again, and in the SF we are always ready to talk about the importance of our international conventions and obligations. In Denmark, the European Convention on Human Rights means a great deal. It was incorporated into the 1992 legislation, and Danish courts are therefore obliged to enforce it, and anyone can sue with direct reference to the ECHR. Unfortunately, when we look out in Europe and around the world, we see that human rights are under pressure and are increasingly being challenged by undemocratic regimes, for example. in Turkey, Azerbaijan, Russia and many other countries. And that is why we do not need a weaker international convention on human rights, no, quite the opposite. We need stronger international institutions, conventions and courts to ensure that all citizens covered by the European Convention on Human Rights can continue to enjoy effective and effective protection of their fundamental human rights. Denmark should not be at the forefront of the choir of countries criticising the European Convention on Human Rights or the Court of Human Rights. We are, and must remain, among the countries that are fighting a brave battle for the rule of law and fundamental rights on the European stage. With this proposal, the Danish People's Party will examine what withdrawal from the Convention on Human Rights and deliberate non-compliance with the decisions of the Court of Human Rights will have consequences. Both see SF as an indirect attack on our international obligations and are not something we in the SF like. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211130148	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we can go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211130212	Human rights and conventions Why have them at all? Why should we commit to them instead of deciding for ourselves? That is the spirit of the resolution we are debating today. And I couldn't disagree more with the approach. Firstly, it is obvious to me why we had human rights and why we had the European Convention on Human Rights. It was, of course, in order to secure the individual against abuses by the state and to have a court to ensure that the fundamental rights that you have as a citizen cannot be taken away from you in the event that a government might find it reasonable to do so. Then the Danish People's Party and others may say that it is just enough to have a rule of law here, but then let me go deeper and talk about the foundation on which human rights are founded, namely the basic view that man is valuable in himself, regardless of background and religion, and that the right to freedom is for all citizens. The European Convention on Human Rights ensures that freedom is not something we only give to those we like. Freedom is for everyone. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt uses as an argument that the European Convention on Human Rights means that we have given sovereignty to the court. However, that is the point of the Convention on Human Rights that states should not suddenly be able to decide to deprive citizens of their fundamental rights. So when you are so concerned about the practice of the Court of Human Rights, I can only assume that it is because you just want to have the opportunity to deprive any citizen of their fundamental rights, because they are basically regarded by the Danish People's Party as second-class citizens, because they are not born in the much-vaunted homeland as the rest of us. That, for me, is the starting point and the focal point of the whole debate. Is the right to freedom a right that everyone has, or is it only for those with whom we like or feel a community? I don't feel any value-related fellowship with Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and the Danish People's Party, but I will defend his right to protection under the Convention on Human Rights, and I will assume that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt himself thinks it is very good that the Convention on Human Rights also guarantees him the right to a fair trial. As far as I'm concerned, it's gonna be pretty absurd when Mr. Morten Messerschmidt believes that Denmark's membership of the Convention is so problematic that if we remain a member, it should be a show-stopper in a potential collaboration with a bourgeois government. But here, on the one hand, I could say: him about it. However, with the announcement and with the resolution we are debating today, we must at least note that the ideological crusade of the Danish People's Party against human rights remains. This time it is not Søren and Marie Krarup who lead the crusade, but Mr. Morten Messerschmidt. However, the arguments are the same as we have known for a long time: human rights have been granted the status of religion because they cannot be discussed and because they deprive us of the right to choose for ourselves what should be the law in force. I do not agree with that approach, because if we believe in a secular society, we only have human rights as a common basis. They are not chiseled in stone; they require our common support. We have chosen to decide that all people deserve the same rights, not because they are Danes, or because it is God-given, but because they are people who have value in themselves. As a small country, we are deeply dependent on the large countries also recognising human rights. If first we don't want to, why do the big countries have to? That is why it is absolutely essential for the Radical Left that we be aware of our international commitment and that it requires the commitment to human rights as a common basis. The right to freedom and equality before the law is one of the reasons why European countries differ from many other countries in the world. These are values that we must safeguard and take care of and which we should also seek to spread to the rest of the world. It is also values that we here today enjoy every day: the right to gather and the right to express ourselves and to fight for our political convictions. With this motion for a resolution and with his statements about wanting to leave the Convention on Human Rights, Mr. Morten Messerschmidt and the rest of the proposers from the Danish People's Party de facto work to bring Denmark into the company of Vatican City and Belarus, even though they try to produce it differently. In this way, we will be completely isolated in Europe and for good reason. The Radical Left is voting against the motion for a resolution because we consider the investigation to be superfluous. On the other hand, we do not believe that human rights are. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211130720	Thank you. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211130727	I consider the democratic and human vision of the Radical Left to be the diametrically opposite of what the Danish People's Party stands for. Therefore, there is no wonder that we are looking at a different way of explaining this, that is to say how to achieve more national autonomy. What is interesting to hear about Mrs Sophie Callesen has been given some thought about is if, in a Danish and European context, the human rights convention is decisive for the society and freedoms that Mrs Sophie Callesen rightly pays tribute to, and if it is essential for us to have them, how it can be that there are a number of countries in the world that have similar freedoms and democracy and equality without being part of the European Convention on Human Rights, we could mention Australia, New Zealand, Israel, Canada, the United States, etc. And that's where Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen can just take an odyssey out in the Eastern European states.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211130818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211130822	First of all, I think it is true that we are looking at the basic substance of this. But then to answer the question: it is precisely true that there is a large number of declines in Europe. That is why it would be problematic if Denmark were to send the signal that the Convention on Human Rights does not matter. Because no, it doesn't matter. And we cannot use a comparison with countries which do not have the opportunity to join the European Convention on Human Rights to conclude that the European Convention on Human Rights has not had any impact on the European countries which have joined it, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211130856	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211130859	That is very, very revealing to Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen's ability to foresee, it has to be said. If she can see that there is no immediate link between the freedom, democracy, equality and development of the countries of the world, then it must be said that Denmark, by stepping out of the European Convention on Human Rights, would challenge and move the world away from the ideals that that argument simply does not exist anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211130925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211130929	I believe that the argument that does not exist and that cannot be used is that there are countries that do not have the opportunity to join the Convention and yet are well-functioning democracies, so proves that the Convention on Human Rights has not had an impact on the fundamental rights of people in Europe. There are several examples of this, including: in relation to the fact that you just have an activist approach. And we can discuss the advantages and disadvantages of this, but one of the advantages, for example, is that when the Convention was signed in 1950, the rights of homosexuals had not been taken into consideration. This is something that the Court of Human Rights has also helped to emphasise and confirm, namely that homosexuals have the right to exercise their sexuality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211131012	Then it's mr. Jens Rohde, KD. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211131018	It is no surprise that I share Mrs Sophie Callesen's value base, and I thought it was a fine speech she made. But I do have a weakness in the concept of "Nixon in China" - Mrs Sophie Callesen knows all about it - and sometimes it is interesting to turn it around and make it surprising. And you could, of course, consider whether you could say yes to such an analysis, where you will of course help to define exactly how that analysis should be made, because it might be able to show that much of it, as Mr. Morten Messerschmidt walks and pretends the Danish population of all kinds of accidents at the conventions, has absolutely no basis in reality. Couldn't that be a way to go about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211131107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211131110	Well, it could actually be tempting, and I've thought about it myself. If we are not going to vote in favour of the resolution then, of course, it is because it is quite clear what the spirit of it is, where it is going to lead and what signal it will send if we adopt this proposal, but also because I think it is quite clear what the advantages of being a member of the Convention are. But I can actually follow Mr. Jens Rohde's argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211131134	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We're gonna move on, and now it's sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211131148	Thank you for that, President. Traditional beliefs start again by discussing human rights, and tradition is about how we can limit them and ensure that Denmark does not have to follow them. The development in which we are discussing how human rights can be dropped rather than discussing how we guarantee each citizen the protection that human rights provide is frightening. And it is definitely not a slippery slope that we in the Enhedslisten want to be on. During the Danish Presidency of the Council of Europe in 2018, the then Danish government managed to adopt the so-called Copenhagen Declaration. This happened after many months of Danish lobbying aimed at getting the European Court of Human Rights to interfere less in the tight Danish immigration policy. Now the Copenhagen Declaration was not as far-reaching as the first Danish draft, but today, three years later, there has been a general consensus among those who follow the practice of the European Court of Human Rights that the declaration led the court to draw the emotional horns and to show greater restraint in interfering. When it was clear that the Copenhagen Declaration could be adopted, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, to Ritzau, that the responsibility for respecting human rights lies with the individual countries; we do not need a second opinion from Strasbourg. Enhedslisten is completely, completely disagreeing with the former Minister of Justice's point of view. When we have a Convention on Human Rights and a Court of Human Rights, it is precisely an expression of the fact that it is not good enough to leave responsibility for respecting human rights to individual countries. Russia, Hungary and Turkey are all countries that have joined the Council of Europe and the European Convention on Human Rights, but it is probably difficult to argue that we should just leave the responsibility for respecting human rights in the three countries to Putin, Orbán and Erdogan. Fortunately, human rights violations in Denmark are not as extensive as in Russia, Hungary or Turkey, but we also need a second opinion from Strasbourg, otherwise we are in bad shape. If it had not been for the judgment of the Court of Human Rights in the Hauschild case in 1989, we could today have a case law in which the same judge, who has more than thirty times been in custody of a defendant, is also allowed to be a judge at the trial. The Court of Human Rights stated that such a judge was ill-advised. If it had not been for the judgment of the Court of Human Rights in the 1994 Jersild case, we could today have had a media landscape in which newspapers, net media, radio and television held back from reproducing extremist views and thus concealing them. The Court of Human Rights stated that the messenger, the journalist, cannot be punished for reporting extreme views. But these are all old cases from the past millennium, some will object, and they will say that today we do not need a second opinion from Strasbourg, as the former Minister of Justice has said. Today, of course, we have the order of human rights in Denmark, or do we now have it? After all, we have a Ministry of Justice which makes legislative proposals almost without exception, without at the same time assessing whether they respect human rights. It is not often that Denmark does not comply with the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights, which quite openly addresses issues we have in Denmark, but with the justification that it is not Denmark that has been convicted, but another country. It is therefore also the case that Denmark is being convicted, most recently for violating people's right to family reunification. As long as we have governments which either make legislation themselves on the edge of the conventions or which continue the dubious legislation of previous governments without changing it, the European Court of Human Rights will be needed and there will be a need for second opinion from Strasbourg. In the opinion of the Enhedslisten, the Court of Justice should not be restricted. We should not opt out of conventions which safeguard our civil rights against being violated by randomly changing majorities. On the contrary, it must be ensured that every time human rights are violated, whether the offender is Putin, Orbán, Erdogan, Løjberg or Tesfaye as his last name. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211131547	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211131612	The European Court of Human Rights, in its decisions and interpretations, has moved away for miles from the European Convention on Human Rights, on which it must judge. The politicisation and activism of the Court of Human Rights today weakens the rule of the people of Denmark, which we saw only this summer. Here the court overruled a decision taken in the Danish Parliament to delay the possibility of family reunification for migrants. Another good but sad example is when the court leads to criminal foreigners not being deported because they can invoke the right to family and private life under Article 8 of the Convention. When the court gives serial criminal aliens such a trump card on the hand, it means that the criminal is one-sidedly focused, while all other considerations are swept off the table. The Danes are thus not protected from criminal aliens, and the nation state therefore has no right to determine who is staying on the territory. It should be quite clear to everyone here in the Danish Parliament that we cannot continue to subject ourselves unconditionally to judgments of the Court of Human Rights, for in that case it is no longer the Folketing, but an extremely politicising collection of lawyers and human rights activists in Strasbourg, who determine Denmark's foreign policy. Danish immigration policy must be conducted in the Folketing so that the Danes can decide who and how many we let into our country. We must be able to make demands on all foreigners to comply with our laws, and we must not be forced to support them. Although a thorough analysis of Denmark's obligations and opportunities in connection with the Convention and the Court will hardly reveal much new knowledge, I and New Citizens welcome the proposal. It is quite clear that this is such a time for a fight with the activist and politicising human rights court in Strasbourg. We have to put our foot down now. This does not mean that we in the New Citizen are opposed to human rights. The Convention on Human Rights was never intended to constitute a comprehensive and comprehensive regulation of foreign policy in Denmark. The Convention that the Court of Human Rights has read out of the text is actually quite different from the one Denmark committed itself to in the 1950s. The solution lies in the fact that Denmark derogates from the interpretation by the Court of Human Rights of the Convention on Human Rights in national law in the field of aliens. In other words, Denmark should not in future commit itself to following the convention as interpreted by the court in foreign cases, because in New Citizens we believe in freedom, popular rule and national sovereignty. The European Court of Human Rights is not only incompatible with these values; it is also absolutely subversive for both freedom, the rule of the people and our national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211131919	Thank you. I would say that the negotiations that are going on down there in the ranks are not secret because they can be heard all over the Chamber. Then it's mr. Bjørn Brandenborg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211131931	Thank you. And thank you for your speech... the rapporteur is not allowed to go yet. Pernille Vermund No, I stay standing). I would like to ask Mrs Pernille Vermund whether she believes that the Left, and certainly also the Conservatives, if they had been here in the Chamber, change of mind on this issue has something to do with them being a little delicious towards Mrs Pernille Vermund, since the Left now believes that it is sensible to examine whether we could not withdraw from the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211131958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132001	It would be nice if it were so; but as far as I remember, it was both the Left and the Conservatives who sat with the majority when last time they were willing to let action follow words. You didn't get that far. However, the words we have heard from both the Left and we usually hear them from Conservatives, and we hear them from the Social Democratic Party even from the Minister that we have a very activitic court, which often judges for the benefit of criminals and not for the benefit of honest citizens, should of course lead to finding out what we can do to deal with this. Even if we get some new knowledge out of it, one might have doubts somewhere, but to back up the fact that we are explaining how we can move forward, I think it is quite natural, especially if we recognise, as the Social Democrats themselves do, that we have a very activitic court which sometimes comes up with judgments where we take our heads and where we also say that this is contrary to what a majority of this Parliament wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132100	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132104	Thank you. Is it not a little remarkable, in other words that the Left and Conservatives, who, at least in all the other debates that have taken place in this Parliament and which have dealt with this subject, have always refused to discuss whether or not to withdraw from the conventions at all, are now voting in favour of an inquiry into whether or not to withdraw from the conventions? And that comes only as a follow-up to other examples of not taking responsibility in large-scale negotiations and conciliation, which might have something to do with the fact that you think it might be nice to take a good look at Mrs Pernille Vermund. I just thought it might be interesting to hear whether it is also Mrs Pernille Vermund's own analysis of what things look like.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132140	In other words, as I said, it would be really nice if there were a number of rapporteurs from different parties who thought it was nice to make themselves delicious for new citizens. The fact is that the Conservatives have not even shown up today; so much more delicious has obviously not been desired.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132153	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132156	First of all, thank you for supporting the proposal. I do not know whether it was a statement or whether it actually covered Mrs Pernille Vermund's views when she said that she as such has nothing against human rights. I hope she'll consider that. In other words, human rights stem from the disease called the French Revolution, which adopted in 1792 one of two twins, i.e. le droits de l'Homme, but never implemented the declaration of duty which was supposed to follow and which, throughout history, has led human rights to a life like the sick twin who has never been corrected. So it is only in a society of law to take a view of rights on the individual, but it does not attach any importance to it, which is the duty to be loyal to one's family, one's nation, its history, its traditions, etc., that human rights as an institution, whatever they are from the French Revolution, the American 15 years before or the modern after the Second World War, must be regarded as a disease of a democracy. Does Mrs Pernille Vermund not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132300	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132303	That was a very long question. The fact is, we're not against human rights exactly as I said in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132307	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132311	Does Mrs Pernille Vermund not agree that human rights, as an ideology, must necessarily stand in opposition to the freedom and democracy for which she otherwise wants to fight normally?
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132321	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132324	I do not believe that it is human rights that are in contrast with our freedom, our people's rule, our democracy. These are the Court's interpretations of how human rights are to operate in a society such as the Danish one. And it should of course be the case that we also look at human rights for honest citizens. You don't do that today. Today, it is very much the rights of the criminal, and not the rights of the citizens who must be free from criminals, among other things. foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132350	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so that dialogue must take place in the Chamber. And then it's sir. Jens Rohde, KD. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132401	Thank you. Well, I wish I was able to make myself delicious towards Mrs Pernille Vermund, but I think that the political distance is a little too wide. I can tell Bjørn Brandenborg that it is my experience that both Left and Conservatives have begun to suffer from Stockholm syndrome. I mean, they love their hostage-takers, and it is a matter of hostage-taking when we are dealing with some bourgeois parties, for example. I would like to reduce the threshold for foreign labour, but as such, because there is Muslim discussion in it, is not able to deliver what you yourself have asked for. This is quite interesting, and I think it is evidence of a Stockholm syndrome which I hope we can get rid of in bourgeois Denmark. Well, that's not what this discussion was supposed to be about. So fühlt man Absicht, und man ist verstimmt. And yes, it is the correct representation of Goethe's quote from then, not, as it is being reproduced today, I just want to say, before Mr. Morten Messerschmidt corrects me. I think that quote belongs here, because I know that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt doesn't hide what Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's absicht with this is. What is the purpose? It is, of course, that Denmark should resign from the conventions. Under no circumstances can we support that, and Mr. Morten Messerschmidt also well, i.e. both where my party, but also I personally, is in these questions. I'm still going to consider making a Nixon in China and supporting Mr. Morten Messerschmidt's proposal ^ if we can help make a formulation, so make a formulation together, about what it is that needs to be done and how it should be done, i.e. if we could meet somewhere there. Because I am quite convinced that what will then happen is that we will be exposed what it is really about. We are being exposed to all the advantages of having a human rights body that does not look at the nations but looks at man, on the individual's right, and which I do not see as a disease or a sick twin. And perhaps we could also get beyond, or at least define, what it is that you mean when you tell the Danish people all the time that it is an activist court. Because the truth is that conventions are evolving. In other words, it is constantly being portrayed as if it were texts that were written in another time, and it is absolutely crazy that we should be sitting there and sticking to them. But the texts have not been written in another time. Yes, the basic text is, but the conventions are developing just as it has recently been inserted as a human right to have an abortion for a woman whose life and health are at risk. It is then a new human right, but it is not something the court has decided. And human rights are, of course, a dynamic size, and they must necessarily be in a society that is constantly evolving. In other words, if we are going to discuss digital rights, this is something that you cannot read from the Danish constitution, i.e. that a Dane has digital rights. It gives itself, since it is written in quite a different time. That is why we need to have a more dynamic view of it, and I see it as positive that there is a dynamic view of what human rights really are, otherwise they would never go along with society and the developments that exist and then they would not provide the individual with the necessary protection. So from this point of view, I would like to come to Mr. Morten Messerschmidt in a meeting so that we can discuss it properly, but can also have an explanation that both illuminates one side, but also illuminates the other side. If I can get an assurance from Mr. Morten Messerschmidt that we can discuss how the formulation of such an analysis should be, I think it can actually make quite sense. With that reservation, I would like to say that we are actually prepared to support Mr Beyer de Ryke. Morten Messerschmidt's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132842	That's exactly what Mr. Knox said. Morten Messerschmidt now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132846	Thank you, sir. Jens Rohde, not least for the Goethecitet, which made me think of another Goethecitat, not from the Fausta, but from the Young Werthers sufferings, which sounds, with the permission of the President, something like: Talent wird durch Einsamkeit genährt talent is nurtured through loneliness. For Mr. After all, Jens Rohde seems to be sitting in his isolated loneliness as the sole mandate of his party and developing his talent, for it is wonderful that he is now coming to meet us on this issue. I'd like to give that hand to Mr. Simpson. Jens Rohde, that we're going to deal soberly with what this investigation had to conclude. I am quite convinced that within the Convention there is scope for taking more powers back to the national authorities, both Parliament and the courts. That is where the issue is particularly problematic. And if that does not turn out to be the case, none of me goes by recognising that I have been wrong, nor does it revise my basic view that we should get out of this shit.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132949	Thank you. Sir. Jens Rohde, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211132953	Thank you for your kindness. Then I'd just like to say that it was the young man, sir. Werther quite uncomfortable. But I'd like to take Henrik Ibsen up with an example from the Folk Enemy, where Dr Stockmann says that the one standing alone is the strongest in the world. So I have no problem standing here alone for KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211133014	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211133017	I just want to ask if the enemy of the people was better off with Ibsen than the young Werther at Goethe. I certainly do not recall that. Wasn't he driven out of town? I hope it doesn't work out, sir. Jens Rohde looked ill after he finally found a party that seemed to have been able to accommodate him for a considerable time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211133031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211133034	Yes, he was hurt, but the reason why he was hurt was because he stood firm on the truth and his principles. And I think you should respect that, sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211133042	A debate in the Parliamentary Assembly can take us all the way around and be exciting. Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And now we have come to the conclusion that it is the rapporteur for the proposers. There is no compulsion, and you can renounce the right to make your speech, but I have enough time. Sir. Morten Messerschmidt, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211133110	Thank you, President, and thank all the rapporteurs who have chosen to contribute to the debate. I think we have come a long way in understanding both where we are as parties and in understanding what human rights as such are, in other words what role they should play. There have been a few surprises along the way, but I think that will only make the process more exciting. I welcome and say from the Liberal Alliance that we intend to vote in favour of this proposal, and I understand from the statements that the same applies to the Conservative People's Party. But it may be that we will have it confirmed at a later stage. This certainly shows that there is a very clear difference between red and blue. In the red, there is a Minister of Justice who, since he became Minister of Justice, has taken every opportunity to criticise the expansive interpretation style of the Court of Human Rights, the teleological interpretation style in which, a little like Mr. Jens Rohde mentioned, not looking at what the intention behind a law is, what the intention behind the convention in the concrete context is, as it may have been written, but, on its own initiative, constantly expands and expands. And this is not just a question of technological and scientific enlargement, sir. Jens Rohde, it is also a matter of material enlargement, where we can see within what is known as the case law system that judgments handed down in the years before are being dealt with, and in this way the bucket constantly expands on what human rights can contain in such a material way, and thus continuously narrows the field of what we Parliament must adopt and, consequently, also the judgments which our national courts may then reach. And there is a proposal, as the motion for a resolution also says, that the incorporation law should be repealed from 1992. After all, Denmark is included in considerable amounts of international agreements and conventions and treaties and everything, without us directly incorporating them into national law. It might be interesting to clarify whether it would also be a way to go and, at least, to deny the ghost that the former Minister of Justice, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, has suggested that this would mean that we could not be members of the European Union. I'm sure that's where you're going, sir. Jens Rohde will also confirm that the EU and human rights have nothing to do with each other, all the time that the EU is still negotiating to become part of the Convention, but is therefore not. That's why the two things are separate sizes. Another thing you could investigate was to say that the judgments we then choose to comply with are only judgments where Denmark is a party. We've got lots of cases, including... in the area of foreigners, where Denmark is correcting, as it is called, even though we have not been asked at all. After all, the Paposhvil case is well known, where I think it is a Georgian citizen who is in Belgium, who commits something or other criminal, must be deported from Belgium, but cannot be expelled because it turns out that he has some rare cancer disease which cannot then be adequately treated in Georgia, and then it would be a violation of his or her human rights to be thrown out of Belgium. This has led to changes to Danish law on foreigners, although we are not part of that matter at all. There one might consider saying that we would have tried things out of a Danish context. If there is someone who claims to have his fundamental rights violated, he or she can bring an action on her own. Another version could of course be that it is said that the legal masquerade, which typically takes place in the written processes of the Court of Human Rights, we simply do not recognise. We know for a fact how the quality of those judges is, by the way, an unintended compliment to call them judges, because most of them have been judges at a court or have not tried to be judges at all before they got into this self-realised system. However, one might choose to say that we then choose only to follow the decisions of the Grand Chamber, that is, where we have actually had a larger process, where we have heard the parties and everything, and where things are not settled on a written basis alone. So there are plenty of opportunities to regain some powers, so that it is we here in the Folketing who decide what the legal position should be in Denmark. Then it came from among others. Mr. Peder Hvelplund has been argued that there are some judgments that have led to an improved legal position in Denmark, and it is hard to disagree with, it is quite obvious. What is the big question is, of course, perhaps we would have had an increased protection of freedom of expression, even if Jens Olaf Jersild's case had not ended in the Court of Human Rights. It was, it must be said, in the years up to, something that was discussed, quite a lot, in the Danish press, that is, where the border should lie, and if not, if not, if there had been such a system, the Folketing had taken it upon itself and got it right, in terms of how one would like to have the balance between freedom of expression and racist statements. The same is true with regard to the Hauschildt case, which is, of course, about the issue of the admissibility rules in the courts. It is not the case that the European Council countries are the only ones who have an objective and subjective criterion in assessing the suitability of judges. That is something I know for personal reasons about this, something that is also found in other well-ordered constitutional states, such as those I mentioned earlier to Mrs Sophie Callesen, in other words New Zealand and Australia and Israel, the United States, Canada and so on. It is the same legal situation, even if they are not part of the Convention. This leads me to such a deeper reflection on what it really is that creates good societies. So, is it really that you have conventions of an international nature, or are they perhaps quite different? And that is also a little an answer to Mrs Pernille Vermund, who I hope will spend his winter holiday studying the history and injustice of human rights. So, what is it really that causes some countries to become democratic, free tolerant and inclusive societies, while others do not? Yes, it is not what convention they have signed at some random point in time. These are much more fundamental conditions, some much more fundamental structures of both cultural and historical nature. That is why it is interesting to see, and this was what Mrs Sophie Callesen was so paradoxically unable to relate to, how there are plenty of Eastern European countries, Putin's Russia, Erdogan's Turkey, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Ukraine, etc., who have signed and solemnly promised that they will respect human rights but who, year after year, are going down the international rankings when it comes to guaranteeing freedom, democracy, equality and all those things that we other people salute and which we say are a fundamental human right. Similarly, or rather inversely proportional, it can be seen that there are countries that have never had the opportunity for territorial reasons to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights, where people move in the opposite direction. That is why it has to be said that there is no such link, and that is not the connection between whether one is a party to the European Convention on Human Rights or whether one is an orderly, democratic and transparent society which can justify the argument that Denmark should fall into some sort of state of banana republic in which we have never even found ourselves before 1849 if we left the Convention. That just leads me to the conclusion that the left is not dressed, in the sense of Hans Christian Andersen here, because there is nothing to be afraid of, and that is why there is nothing to be afraid of in relation to getting an explanation of whether there is within the Convention, because unfortunately we must also expect, after a parliamentary election, to be in a situation where there is a majority of the people who still want to have one hand tied on the back of some pseudo-judges down in Strasbourg, after all, to be able to make some more free decisions by Danish courts and parliament. It is the uplifting thing today that is actually two things that are uplifting today. We've had a mask fall at the Attorney General's office. He doesn't mean it. That is only something he says on certain occasions: he wants to see an end to the widening interpretation of the Court of Human Rights. That is the least good news today, but the really good news is that if there is a new majority after a parliamentary election, so that the blue parties can form a majority, well, we will actually get an explanation of this, and I will actually leave that as the starting point I am going into this winter holiday with. After all, one should not let one's bad mood spoil the fact that the government has once again launched a bluff. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211133910	There is a brief comment. Mrs Anne Sophie Callesen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211133915	So many questions, so little time, but let me start with the first. Recognizes Mr. Mr Morten Messerschmidt, that the court actually takes account of the political developments in the countries, so that we have seen, for example, that in several cases expulsions of criminal foreigners are accepted, precisely because we can see that there is a need in some Member States to do so? Let me start with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211133936	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211133938	Yes, I would say there are trends in some judgments. But that doesn't change, as among other things. The newspaper Politiken has revealed that the President of the Court of Human Rights has recently completely denied that it has anything to do with national political desires.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211133957	Mrs. Anne Sophie Callesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211133959	Then I'll ask you another question, and I'll ask you if Mr. Morten Messerschmidt can explain how these so-called pseudojudges are appointed, and perhaps also what control is being exercised with the court's practice, including what role Mr. Morten Messerschmidt himself plays it in relation to his place in the Council of Europe delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211134014	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211134018	I'd love to. I would almost like to ask the President-in-Office if I can use the speaking time that I did not use just now, because that is something that is very close to my heart. I am on the committee which has these interviews with the three candidates that the countries are proposing, and I would say that it is yes, I do not know how much it is possible to refer to such meetings. In other words, all this is about is who really believes in the superior authority of the European Convention on Human Rights in relation to national democracies. It must almost be like sitting in a working party under the Radical Left. That is awful, I can say, and that is why I am actually happy to get out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211134052	Sir. Bjørn Brandenborg, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211134056	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. After all, I am glad that Mr. Morten Messerschmidt has found something uplifting that he can bring here from today. I'm just gonna ask sir. Morten Messerschmidt, if it is an ultimate demand from his chair that the Left and Conservatives support leaving the conventions so that they can be pointed out in a possible government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211134114	Sir. Morten Messerschmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211134117	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211134121	Thank you. Are there any more questions? No, there isn't. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220211134132	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, February 22, at 2 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. And I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
