ParlaMint-DK_20220112130006	The meeting is open. The Epidemic Committee has submitted: Report on lifting restrictions on high schools so that pupils can return immediately. 5. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112130021	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed. The date of the vote will be announced as soon as possible. For a explanatory statement, Mr President, it is the rapporteur for the authors of the questions. Martin Geertsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112130051	Thank you for the floor. On 7 February 2020 a joint call came from KL, Danish Regions, PLO, Younger Doctors, the Chief Medical Association, FOA, HK and the Health Cartel with the clear message that there is a need for a reform of health care. Now, two years later, we are standing here, and negotiations on the health reform that the actors in our health care are hungering for have still not been convened. We have been promised repeatedly by both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health that the negotiations were now just around the corner; now we had to get started. In connection with Parliament's opening debate in October 2020, the Prime Minister said among other things: let us make a health agreement next year, and let us make it wide. We need a health reform. We have a health service where staff are skilled, but unfortunately there is no connection between municipalities and hospitals. Unfortunately, nothing has happened. We are also sorry that, in his New Year speech, the Prime Minister chose to postpone a debate on a health reform and that is even for an indefinite period. When we are so sad and impatient, it is because the Danish health service needs reform. Patients and staff need the buttons properly placed in the Danish healthcare system. And the whole process is done, the analyses are there, because the previous government made sure of that. So, in our view, there is nothing to think about. The government apologises for having had a pandemic, but, first of all, we have not had that in the same 21⁄2 years that this government has had power, and secondly, the effect of the pandemic on health care illustrates the urgency of getting started. The hospital is under pressure. We are currently seeing this and it will not pass because we are waiting. On the contrary, it will hit patients and staff harder and harder, the longer we wait. I shall come back to that in my rapporteur's speech, but the whole point of reform should be to relieve hospitals and relieve hospital staff so that they have the strength and resources to deal with those patients who really need the highly specialised treatment. We must do this by strengthening the close health care system, that is, everything that is outside the hospitals. We think it is a sin of omission that the government has continued to do nothing about the solidification of the Danish health service. I look forward to the debate on this important issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112130258	Thank you. That was the reason. Then we shall proceed to the answer when we have just had the alcohol out of the platform. Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112130323	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for inviting me to put some words on the government's future health reform. We have an important work here, as has already been stressed by the questioner, and the government is at least as impatient to get started as I understand the questioners and the parties of the Folketing are. We need to make our healthcare systems both stronger and more robust. The patient needs to be downtown. Close health care needs to be developed and equipped to play a greater role. And then there must be a much better connection for patients between what happens where they have at home, that is to say in their municipality, with their general practitioner, and what may happen in the hospital. It is about strengthened prevention, fewer re-hospitals and a better course for the individual patient. And the employees, our most important resource in health care, must have proper time to do their job. Finally, and of course it is important for me to stress that the delay in treatment that has occurred during the pandemic must be made up; the waiting time must be reduced. After nearly two years of corona, there is no doubt that there are challenges in our healthcare system. Very much in the health care system works well. We experience it ourselves when we are patients who are there but there are also challenges. There are, as things stand right now, for many patients waiting for treatment, and in many places it is also difficult to get the staff needed. We will therefore present our proposal for a health reform and call for negotiations here in the first quarter of the year we have just started. By the way, we have already started. We have taken a number of steps to ease the acute pressure on health care. Together with the SF, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Christian Democrats, we have adopted a Coronavinter package to help the health service through these winter months. Money has also been set aside to speed up the processing of applications from health professionals from third countries, and it has been agreed that the municipalities should relieve hospitals if necessary. And both in 2021 and 2022 and it is important to say that the regions will have to cover all their costs for the settlement of the processing punk resulting from the pandemic. Ever since it took office 21⁄2 years ago, the government has put welfare first and invested in health. Together with municipalities and regions, we have agreed on the biggest welfare boost in 10 years. We have set aside money for 1,000 more nurses and for good treatment in the psychiatric system. Because, unlike previous governments and political majority, we do not believe that we can save ourselves for better welfare or that we can help more patients by underfunding our health care. We recently presented new initiatives. We propose to set up near hospitals, to spend up to 4 billion. kr. to conduct them around the country. We want to strengthen the emergency response • more ambulances, emergency medical cars or emergency cars. And the quality of the municipal emergency effort must also have a boost. Finally, we have proposed that citizens in Denmark should have access to a permanent doctor. Moreover, whether you live in the province or live in the western part of Copenhagen. All this has been put forward, but we need further initiatives, as I said before. It is also important, when we have a debate in this Chamber, that we are honest and have been told to the Danes that we cannot solve all the problems at once. The challenges are great and there are no snapshot solutions, because we are going to lack employees to an even greater extent than what we are experiencing today. That's why we need to see with the government's glasses and I actually think there's support from many parties in the Danish Parliament that we'll have a long-term political agreement on our health care. Of course, I hope everyone will share in this responsibility. It must therefore be a long-term health reform, which is also about the structural, one can say, in other words the patient at the centre, more coherent course for the individual patient in relation to what is happening municipally, at his own doctor and in hospitals, and more focus on prevention. And then we have to make sure that the employees actually have time to carry out the tasks that we know the employees want to take on. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112130814	Thank you. Now there is an opportunity for the general rapporteurs who wish to ask one question. First, it's sir. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112130820	Thank you for that and thank you for the Prime Minister's statement. As I said in my explanatory statement, we are extremely impatient, at least in my party and in the blue side of this Parliament, because we believe that reform is urgently needed. We need to put the buttons right in our health services, we need to relieve the hospitals, and we need to do so, among other things. and to a very large extent do by strengthening everything that is going on outside hospitals in the near health care system. After all, the Prime Minister and the government have promised over the last 21⁄2 years that now we must get to work. And now the Prime Minister says that the government will present another proposal here in the first quarter of 2022, and that, as I understand it, it will also convene negotiations in the first quarter of 2022. Can we count on that? And when I ask, it's because the government has promised the same thing several times, and it hasn't really happened. Can we count on this, i.e. the government calling for negotiations no matter what?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112130926	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112130927	In fact, I was right back looking at the history books and was able to see there that the former left-wing government also postponed its health reform. And it is not the first or the last time in the history of Denmark that a reform in a given area can be postponed. I would say that in particular when you look at the last two years, when not only we in Denmark but the whole world have fought with and against a pandemic, it is no wonder that there are things that we have not been able to do as we had planned. That does not change the fact that we need a health reform, and when I listen to the opening words of the Left today, and now I do not have to write what is said in today's debate, but I have taken note of what also parties that are closer to us often say in terms of health care, I think it really indicates that we have the same analysis of what are some of the problems in health care, and therefore I also believe that we can have a broad agreement. That would be good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131018	Then it is Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131019	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Prime Minister for setting a time perspective on when we can start talking about it. But the Prime Minister said in New Year's speech that it was not time to make major changes in health care. So it just sounded like you shot it out, and it also meant that more health professors, the president of the Medical Association, Danish Regions all say that we can't use the corona card anymore. Does it not impress the Prime Minister that so many professional professionals actually disagree with the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131056	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131057	Sometimes memory may be a little short. When you think about what we have been through as a society and what our health services have been through, I stand by my words that it would not have been right to make major structural changes in health care as well. If we look at many of our employees, you run too fast and have done so over a long period of time, but now we are in a different situation. More than 90%. of the plus 65-year-olds in Denmark have now got the third stick against covid-19, and although we have a large infection in Denmark and will continue to have it for a while, perhaps even more so after the children have fortunately returned to school, it does not have the spill-over effect on serious illness and on intensive hospitalizations as it had before, because of the vaccines, and therefore we are in a different situation. That is also why we hope that the restrictions will be lifted in large parts of cultural life, and that, of course, also means that we must now have this health reform, which we have started with, for example, near hospitals, but the other things we must also bring with us now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131200	Then it's mr. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131201	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for coming here to answer the questions. I was actually so happy when I heard the Prime Minister because we are thinking the same things; we know where the challenges are and what problems we are facing. One of the major challenges in achieving the objectives is that there is a shortage of staff, employee shortage to a large extent. That is why it saddened me a little when I saw that the largest group of those who have applied for Arnepension were indeed health and care workers. Let it go. But the point I made was that the Prime Minister is saying that we should all have a permanent doctor, and of course there is a medical practitioner in mind. After all, we are missing them, and we have been doing so for a very long time, and we also know that the prognosis says that there will be a need for more practitioners. And then I cannot help asking why it is that there is a reluctance on the part of the government in relation to the proposal I made that we should make sure that we were trained enough practitioners so that we could get up to the 5 000 which will be needed in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131308	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131309	There is no doubt that access to a permanent doctor is really, really important, and we are challenged and have been over a number of years in Denmark. Both in some geographical areas, which the rapporteur and I are well aware of, but also in parts of the metropolitan area, it is actually difficult to get access to a doctor. It has not, of course, been possible to say that this problem has been resolved in the past, but I am actually listening to the broad support that there is for this to be addressed in a future health reform, which is why I naturally hope that we will be able to agree on it. Here the training of doctors and, moreover, the training of doctors throughout Denmark play an important role. I remember how much criticism there was of it, as doctors also had to be trained in North Jutland. I even remember that there were some who thought that the quality of the training would decrease, but seen with Northern Jutland glasses it is uncommonly good that doctors are now being trained in North Jutland. So, of course, we also need to discuss education issues along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131410	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131412	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would just like to emphasise that in the Enhedslisten we also absolutely share the impatience to get started with the negotiations on a health reform. However, I also think it is important to stress that when we face the challenges we are facing today, it is because several years of changing governments, including social democratic governments, but also very much civil governments, have pursued a policy of underfunding and running with an efficiency regime which has meant that we have not really paid for the tasks that we have commissioned. So I have two questions for the Prime Minister. One question is: does the Prime Minister agree that there is a shortfall in investment in health care and that, therefore, a prerequisite is also a welfare law in which we guarantee that we pay for the services we are going to order in the future? The second question concerns the Prime Minister also mentioning the challenges of staff, for whatever structure we do, we are totally dependent on having a skilled and dedicated health care professional, as it has also been shown that we have under the corona. But the winter package is due to expire soon, so what is the government's response to the funds that expire now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131519	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131521	I see the same challenges in relation to the economy, because I really do not think it is so difficult to agree broadly in the Folketing that we need a health service that is closer to the Danes, both in terms of proximity but also in terms of better cooperation. That is what the problem is today: that you can smoke down between two or three different chairs and that too much time is spent on coordination. I think we can agree on that. Now it is very difficult to get an insight into what, for example, conservative economic policy is enough because it is not written but what is promised to the Danes, in the form of large tax cuts, we know what is going to sit in. It is a saving on welfare, because that is usually the case when you have a bourgeois government in Denmark; I think it has always been that way. And you cannot run a good public Danish health service, just as you cannot run a good primary school, a good education system or good care for the elderly if you do not also have the will to invest what needs to be done. You can start to see that now after two and a half years. Today there is a political majority in Denmark that chooses to invest in education, and we have also chosen to invest in citizens' welfare with the agreements made with municipalities and regions. It's not enough, but we've gotten there well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131633	Thank you. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131634	Thank you. It was as if you had thought about what I would ask, because that is precisely the economy of it. There, of course, we have put forward a financial bill in which we are investing massively in health care. But then it strikes me a little that the Socialist health rapporteur at the time, Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen said you didn't think it would cost more money to do this. I understand if it costs a plant investment, but it was said that it would really not be operational anymore, because the money goes with it. I'm a little worried about that. I hope that we may be able to put the bar higher, so that we can also get a boost in general in this area. So I just wanted to ask if that's the frame. It's just to get a little closer: is the framework here that it has to go to zero in operating costs when you've made the construction investments that I totally agree to make?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131730	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131731	I do not go around thinking or thinking that we solve all the problems in the Danish welfare community by simply adding more money. I also made that very clear in my New Year's speech. I believe that we can win a great deal in all areas of welfare by getting rid of the very, very extensive bureaucracy, the very comprehensive regulation of what is going on in both school and education, as well as children, the elderly and health. However, we cannot face the demographic changes that are taking place, of our societies, where we live longer and there will be more elderly people, while there will also be more children, but falling youth ages, and claim that there is no need to spend more money in the welfare society. It can't be done. The alternative to that is savings. That is why, when we have that demography in front of us, and that is the conditions in which we have to make political decisions on the basis of and based on, we have to cover the demographic trait in my view; otherwise it will mean savings for many places.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131837	Sir. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131845	Is it me now? Lars Boje Mathiesen Yes, we only get one question each). Oh! Lars Boje Mathiesen I'm just helping my unruined colleague here). Yeah, thanks for that. The Prime Minister doesn't look like Mr. Knox. Jens Rohde to give the floor, we have never tried that before). No, no, no, no, no. I would like to thank the government and the Prime Minister for actually pouring the health reform that was on the table of the previous government down the board. Why? Because it was a saving exercise disguised as a reform. And that is where the regions would be dismantled, which I would strongly warn the government to start playing with the idea. That brings me to my question, in order to follow up on the economy. You can't keep telling people that you can get it all in half. And in my optics, I have a great responsibility for it myself, because I helped to reform the regions myself at the time... a capital blunder that we made and that I made, along with Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, when we removed tax printing from the regions, because such fundamental changes have been made in the economic structure. What is the government's point of view in relation to the taxation of the regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131952	Thank you, sir. Jens Roh. Now we get an answer from the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112131958	Yes, sir. Jens Roh good. But I really think there is a good reason to dwell on this discussion, because it is quite right that the health reform that was on the table when the parliamentary elections were held again meant a further centralisation that was said something else, but here too there was also a further centralisation that we need to do away with in a health reform. I think it is important when we discuss this, to say that health policy is one of the most important things for the Danes, and it is really, really wise and good if we can make broad agreements in this area that some of the centralisation and specialization that has taken place has been for the good. There is reason to commend changing governments for this. In other words, we have improved on cancer treatment, we have improved on the heart and, as far as a number of specialties are concerned, we need, it might be said, centralised health care to provide the very best treatment. But a lot of us are going to meet the health services on a different premise because we are runners because we are getting older or because we may have a health challenge that can be dealt with close to home. And the close health service has been down-priority, I think, too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112132109	Thank you. When I'm a little sharp about keeping to time, it's because I'm predicting we're gonna be in a hurry. Prime Minister Sorry). Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112132115	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. We are also impatient, but we are most concerned that we will have a good long-term agreement that goes forward and solves the problems. I particularly welcome the announcements that have been made that the Prime Minister is going for a broad agreement across the middle, and it is actually because I see that it is across the middle that is the greatest understanding of what we may see as the most current and long-standing challenge for health care, namely the lack of qualified staff. Lack of labour is a problem in all parts of Danish society today, as the Prime Minister also addressed in his New Year's speech, but in health care I think everyone can feel that the lack of nurses, midwives and doctors has reached a level that is not just solved with a fixed grip or one solution, and I think there is a greater understanding across the middle that there are many instruments and tools to solve it. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: will the Prime Minister and the government look at it without prejudice? It is clear that more educated people need to be trained, and it is also clear that less bureaucracy is needed, but what about, for example, what about. foreign labour? Could it solve a part of it too?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112132221	Thank you. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112132223	That already solves part of it today. So, we have a great many employees in the Danish health service who either have minority backgrounds and who are resident in Denmark or who come from outside. In fact, I think we have so many skilled staff, if you look at the overall health effort, that we are probably where we could say today that we would not be able to make it work if all those people left our health sector and our care and care sector. So that is labour shortages is part of the problem, but there are others too, and what we are going to discuss with each other is, of course, that, in my view, we are still using too many of our health products when the damage has been done. After all, we spend the vast majority of the funds in health care when people have become ill, repairing, treating and medicine, and we know that if we were better at prevention in Denmark, we would not only save some health products that can be used better, we would also have better lives. And when we look into the fact that most of us are going to live longer and certainly also get more chronic diseases, prevention must also have a much more central location.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112132334	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112132335	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. After all, I am one of those who thought it was a little lucky that corona came first before a health reform, and that, for example, we had not had the regions closed down before we were in the midst of a coronapandemic, because I think that corona has been a magnifying glass on some of the cracks in health care. I also think it has taught us something about how we can solve tasks in a different, more rational and efficient way. So there is a lot of knowledge that we can really take with us into the future. My question is really whether it is wise at this stage to throw everything up in the air or whether it will be important to prioritise some of the most obvious issues that are in society right now. So, the documentary from the hospital, as TV 2 recently showed, showed precisely a staff that is pressured quite unfairly. So with regard to the pressure in health care and the lack of staff, both in the municipalities and in the regions, is it really not necessary to address that problem first?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112132436	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112132438	I would say that in general I do not think we are where everything should be thrown up in the air, and we have to say that when we have the political discussions it is the health policy, like other major welfare areas, that there is quite a lot that works well. Many decisions have been taken over the years which are still in force and which should also remain in force. This does not change the fact that there are challenges that we need to solve. I very much agree that corona has been a magnifying glass on all of us and on our ability to deal with difficult situations and challenges, as has been the case in healthcare. After the first wave, I made the effort to be around some places in the Danish health service and to talk to various employee groups about what was left, and one of the things that I actually think was mentioned most times was that the hierarchy disappeared during the first wave. There was no difference between being a sosu assistant or chief medical officer, there were no unnecessary meetings, there were no processes, and perhaps it wasn't always that you lived up to everything that the Folketing has required you to go to health care, because it was the patient who was the only important thing. Maybe we should learn from that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112132542	Thank you, Prime Minister. There are no more brief comments in this case. Then it's the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112132608	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor. First a few words about the coronapandemic. I agree that it has been a magnifying glass, and when it comes to health care it has shown a very, very adaptable health care system. That is very, very positive. It has also shown a health service that is challenged when it comes to robustness; which is challenged when it comes to busy employees; which is challenged when it comes to getting more tasks; increasing pressure, increasing patient pressure. And we owe these challenges to the employees a huge thank you for every day, including today, to solve with great flexibility. There are new tasks. And under these conditions, they're working under at the moment, it's a very, very much pressure. We can see that it is not just in Denmark and in our health care. I can say that I have spoken to health ministers, and everyone I talk to in this time also tells me that their health care and their hospitals are enormously affected. Employee groups are enormously influenced by the extra work and the new forms of work, and there has also been an extra pressure that has been under. We should then be aware that, in comparison with many, many other countries, as far as the pressure that our Danish health services have been under is concerned, fortunately, our epidemic management and our burden on the hospital system have a much milder degree than what you see elsewhere. We are seeing, for the second time during the pandemic, a mild to moderate excess mortality which Berlingske is going through today. This is better than many, many other countries, but it also shows very well that we have this third wave on our way into the third year of covid-19. And thanks not least to our vaccine efforts and our vaccine support, this wave suggests a milder course, at least in our hospitals. But we're not through yet, and that's why my focus and the focus of our agencies and everyone in health care's very clear focus right now and here in these weeks to get through this third wave in the best possible way. Our strong focus both in the managements, but also on the floor of the clinics is to solve concrete problems. If you then turn back the time a little longer and look at what the government has been doing since its accession, then from the outset, from day one, we have been aware that the financial framework for the operation of health care needs to keep up with the number of patients. It is not acceptable that more and more patients are coming, but that you are not ready to keep up, because then the employees just have to run stronger and stronger, and then it doesn't stick together in the end. That is not just something we say, because it is something that can be seen in concrete terms in the economic agreements that have been made with municipalities and regions. It can be seen that in the last three years of economic agreements, which we have stood for, we have taken up a total of 8.6 billion. kr. It's a quite different level from what you've been used to in the past. In addition, the money that has been set aside comes from the investments that have been set aside, together with the parties to the agreement in the Finance Act. Last time I checked, it was this 1 billion. kr., we set off to the Coronavinter package, precisely to strengthen the resilience, precisely to help employees and managers get through the best possible way, so that our patients can get through this winter as best they can. Robustness must be strengthened. It is a consequence of demographic development that we will have more elderly people. That development will, of course, continue. It is only good that we live longer in Denmark, but it is clear that when you are older you also need more help from the health service. We need a healthcare system that's there for us. That just underlines the importance of this agenda. Some of what we have set in motion is an agreement with Danske Regioner and with the National Association of Municipalities to establish some of what was the content. That was not exactly the content of the previous government's health reform, because I did agree with Mr Tugendhat. Jens Roh, when he said there were things in there that really couldn't be used. But there were also some things that were actually sensible. So we have taken it out of the drawer, which was sensible. We have quite openly said that this thing was sensible. It must, of course, be adjusted because the previous government wanted to dismantle our regions, and we do not want to do so. So it was adjusted. And it is the agreement on health clusters that I look forward to dealing with the Folketing. We made an agreement on that this summer. In other words, a structural change in which we ensure that, as a patient, you are caught by the municipality when you are discharged from the hospital, that is, by the municipalities around our super-sickhouses. This is an important step which helps to ensure that our structure is therefore future-proof. I look forward to that, of course, but it is a step forward. It is clear that this is an important element, but not the only element of a future health reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133113	Thank you to the Minister for Health. Sir. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133116	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Health for the answer here. I asked the Prime Minister before whether we could now count on a call for negotiations on the solidification of the Danish health service in the first quarter of 2022. I thought with my ears I was listening to the Prime Minister's reply a little overwhelmed. So now I just want to repeat the question to the Minister for Health: Can the Minister for Health guarantee that the parties of the Danish Parliament will be called for negotiations on the solidification of the Danish health service in the first quarter of 2022 regardless of the circumstances?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133203	I can say that we are going far more than just looking for solidification. Robusting is one of the cornerstones, but we are looking for a health reform, a political agreement, very much, very much like a broad agreement, which ensures that the health care which already hit Denmark before the corona epidemic was on the pumps in many places, and where the employees worked too quickly and ran far too many places, and where patient groups, including the large patient groups we have, were thrown between different sectors, and it was not certain that they were caught on the other side of the plant when they were then printed or had to return in the form of re-hospitation. We know all these numbers. So our ambition is to make a strong health reform. It will be with some new structures in relation to health clusters, but it will be with our regions. We would very much like to make it broad, and our goal is quite clear to invite as quickly as we can possibly see there is air for it from our agencies in our healthcare system, and it is in this quarter that we are in now in the year 2022.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133303	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133305	Thank you. I agree that capacity is a challenge, and that is also why it has been critical that capacity on, for example. planned operations have fallen by 20%. during this year according to the figures that came from the Danish Health Service this autumn. At the same time we can look into that about 51, 52 percent. All nurses are full-time. That is to say, 48%. is part-time. Is this something that the government is also looking into? I know that in other welfare areas, school teachers and others, you do not always have the opportunity to be part-time, because there is a requirement that sow and so many should be full-time, because there must be enough staffing so that you can make it stick together. Is that something the government wants to go into? We agree that there is an acute shortage of staff and there will be a greater shortage of staff, but when only half of the staff are full-time, there is also a quantity there, which it would be obvious to look at. This also applies to creating better working conditions for them, precisely because there are more people at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133409	Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133410	It's a very relevant problem, so thank you for bringing it up. It is We may oversend the figures for different employee groups, but the nurses are one of the employee groups where many are in reduced time. The reason they are is that they are simply so pressured and that there is so much hurry that they cannot keep up, and since they must also be able to breathe at home, they often go a little down in time. It is, of course, a symptom to me that there is too much pressure for too long, there have been more tasks and more patients, and the means have not been followed, and then we have the situation where you run so fast that you have to go down in time to keep up with it. Then it is true that what is being said is that it means that the department will have even more tasks and that the hands will then be even fewer in the hours when you are not full-time. I would very, very much like to give a hand in the fact that we broadly in the Folketing have a clear ambition to make it more attractive to devote more attention to time for health workers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133509	Sir. Jens Rohde, KD.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133511	At any rate, I can understand that many people do not wish to do so, given the situation. These are grotesque rosters to which some of those who are full-time are exposed. That is not what I wanted to ask the Minister. After all, this whole health reform thing sounds good, and we would also like to see a health reform, but that is not what matters, it is what it contains. There is one thing that has struck me, and that is the fragility of our emergency response. The Prime Minister also mentions it. One might well have imagined that if we had had a more robust emergency response, we would not have needed so many restrictions in relation to the covid-19, because that is what we are putting our restrictions on. What are the thoughts of the government about creating a stronger preparedness?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133614	Then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133615	I would like to try to reply to it in one minute, and the rapporteur, who has also been trained in this discipline, knows that this is a bit difficult. One of the things we have played out in the part-session for a future health reform that we took in the autumn is to prevent more acute re-hospitation, which is so straining the patient there are many elderly medical patients who are being re-installed 30 days after they have been discharged. We know it ourselves when it happens to our families and relatives: you are very often sent in and out of the hospital, and it is very uncomfortable for the individual and for the relatives. In addition, it is also a great load because it takes up a bedroom. And these are typically rather banal diseases such as inflammation of the bladder or dehydration, where the treatment can actually be moved home to the individual elderly's apartment so that an emergency nurse can go out and help in a collaboration between the hospital and the municipality. This is something that will prevent acute rehousing, and in this way it will also make the emergency response of health care more robust.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133720	Thank you. Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133721	Thank you. The Prime Minister just had time to reply last time that the hierarchy disappeared, and I am extremely concerned about that too. I thought it was great to experience during the corona, by interdisciplinaryism became the right of the day, and that it happened without consulting help and everything else. I thought it was great to experience that there were patients who sometimes recovered while waiting for surgery. This testifies to the fact that our guidelines may not always be as clever as we would like. And I think it has been fantastic to see that citizens have taken responsibility for the epidemic, their own health situation, health, prevention and everything else. But the corona has also shown that we have a hugely pressured health care system. Among the staff, there has been a lot of pressure in everyday life, and if we are not to throw everything up in the air, and I am glad that the Prime Minister said that we shouldn't necessarily make sense, does it not make sense that we are trying to focus on needle-stick operations, primarily in relation to the pressured health care professionals?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133823	Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133825	Yes, it does. There is a great deal of pressure in our health services, both for many historical reasons, but also for current reasons. If you measure in relation to abroad, there is a high efficiency in the Danish health care system. We get a lot of money for our health bills compared to what we spend on bnp, we're pretty good. But it has to be said that when the Danes have gone through fire and water, turned down their social activities and everything we've done through this corona epidemic, it has been to save our health care through this. It means so much to all of us. And it has to be said that for our staff in the health service on all shelves I was just about to say that things aren't connected and now the gaffata doesn't hold anymore. That is why one of the things we need to address to me is to strengthen the management that is close to the employees. Of course, you can also strengthen the management at the top and which they really experience comes with feedback on the work they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133930	Liselott Blix, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112133931	Thank you very much and thank the Minister for Health for his speech, which is a repetition of much of what we hear. I think that when I listen to how bad things are and that you cannot do so much else, that you forget what you have done yourself and that you have not listened to the nurses who have stood down here and struck and said that there is chaos out there and that there is a reason why you cannot drive full-time. And if someone in here is in doubt about it and just thinks that you should go full-time, maybe you should take a month internship at a hospital, have changing hours, come home to a family, you have to look after you might be a mother or a father and then try to see how you fit together. I'd say it's worse than having 80 hours in here in the Folketing. But where was the government's support for those nurses? It is precisely now that we cannot have the health care with all the nurses who need to help. Sometimes when we hear the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health talk, it's about them going up full time and everything else, and it's their fault. No, somebody in here has to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134039	Thank you, Mrs Liselott Blix. Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134039-2	One must have listened very badly if one thinks that I or others have said that it should be the nurses' fault. One of the first things we did in our first Finance Act was to set aside funds so that we get more nurses. It was a clear analysis of the situation. Nurses are missing; they simply lack colleagues. And we set aside funds for it. I remember, in fact, that there were quite a lot of people who thought that it was an unrealistic mission that we set out on, that is to say, getting 1,000 nurses. But when you do that, you can see that, a year and a half after we dropped the money, i.e. when we measured the number of nurses in the health service in the summer of 2021, we actually reached 1,000 extra full-time positions. That effort cannot stand alone, and there must be plenty of other things, but it is a clear priority for this government and also a clear upgrade of the investment in health care and nurses that we had some more nurses.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134143	Sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134145	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the speech. One might say that if you wanted to increase the recruitment of nurses, you probably should not have done the intervention in the nurse conflict that the government did together with a majority in this Parliament. Because if we now look at what it has had to do with the fact that we are now facing major problems in recruiting staff, not only nurses, but also sosus and other health professionals, then it has had some rather dramatic consequences. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Health one thing. After all, we managed to push the government in the budget negotiations to get this winter package adopted, where we could give 1 billion. kr. to a temporary boost to maintenance and recruitment in health care. Those funds are being used up, and they will certainly be used up here in January and February. So what's the answer? Because this is a structural challenge that we are facing. It is not just a corona-based challenge; it is a structural challenge in terms of maintaining and recruiting staff. What does the government intend to do to ensure that we can maintain that recruitment?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134248	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134249	Yes, it's a winter pack, it's a coronavinter package, and it's true that it will be used up during this winter. It's exactly as planned. In addition, we have agreed by the government with Danske Regionser that once this wave has begun to ebb out in relation to seasonal effects and everything we know, there is a huge task that is about having these waiting lists reduced as quickly as possible and using all the capacity • private, public, everything we can • to have those waiting lists reduced. It also costs some money, i.e. some extra money, and there we have agreed with our regions that the bill will be picked up, and that we from the Treasury will have an agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Danish Regions to finance the extra effort that will be made when we have finished dealing with the actual corona situation here in this winter wave.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134342	Sir. Per Larsen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134343	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for Health for coming and answering the questions. After all, the Minister for Health has been Minister for Health for two and a half years. He became Minister on 27 June 2019. I am thinking of the fact that if the Minister had taken up a health reform quite immediately after the Minister became a minister and then we had got to grips with it, that is to say, ensuring that we had fewer patients in hospitals and that we allowed the municipalities to deal with some more tasks in people's own homes and elsewhere, so that we ensured that some more capacity has been exploited in the practice doctors, and that we had all the things that can be taken care of in the near health care sector organized in cooperation with hospitals, so that the pressure had not been great in hospitals today, it would not have been in the health minister's view now that I know the Minister of Health would not help to remove the regions, but, in other words, there was a proposal in the draw-up when the Minister became Minister was an advantage in relation to the health care we have now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134448	Then we'll get an answer, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134449	What if we manage to get all parties involved in a really good agreement to reform our Danish healthcare system? That is our ambition. It may be that it succeeds in getting everyone with it, it could be amazing. Even if we succeed, we must be completely honest with each other and, above all, with employees and patients, that it is not the case that paradise on earth has then entered our hospitals the next day. We know that. After all, it is a huge long-term investment, a far cool move in relation to new structures. We're building super-sickhouses that need to be connected to these new structures. That is why I have to say that everything we can do now and here must be done to reduce waiting lists from the hump that there is in Denmark and in virtually every other country I have heard about during this period. In other words, our vision is that it must be a reform that can be felt day by day, but which has only been fully implemented after some time has elapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134554	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134555	Yes, there are incredibly many things that could be touched upon in this debate and that we are not getting to the bottom of today either. It is true, as the Minister said, that it is as if the coronapandemic has, as it were, highlighted some of the problems we have in general in health care, including hard working conditions for staff and the need to focus more on the preventive and primary issues raised by the Prime Minister. There is a development which I would like to hear from the Minister, and that is that the number of private health insurances has exploded over the last five years, and it has also speeded up during the Coronapandemic, as I understand it. That is something that has been set in motion, among other things. Moreover by the trade union movement, which includes it in their memberships etc. What does the government really think about this development? In other words, it is an expression of a welcome addition to public health services, or is it an expression of the fact that our health services are being so distorted between those who can afford to buy themselves for faster and better treatment and those who have only the public. How does the government really look at this development?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134659	Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134700	In fact, I look at it in such a pragmatic and unideological way. So, for us, it is important that we have more equality in health, and that is on a great many parameters, not least in the area of prevention, where health care is poorly able to catch patients, depending on what is brought about by social backgrounds and educational backgrounds etc. This means that health care today does not break, that it actually supports a social imbalance and a social imbalance in the health of the Danes. It is clear that there may be a parameter, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentions here, which may also be relevant, and let us look at it. It is not the biggest driver of inequality in health. In other words, private hospitals account for approx. 5% of the total hospital capacity, so it is a rather limited effort. We are using them right now, and all of Denmark's regions have made agreements with the private hospitals to use their capacity in this pressing time. In this way it is an important part of our Danish capacity
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134802	Thank you to the Minister for Health. There are no more brief comments. Then I would like to see whether we can expect to be in agreement with each other. I've been a little sharp on time. Now we've spent 48 minutes, and we've got till 8:00. 15. There are 11 rapporteurs for the parties, each having four minutes. If we are then to put the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health back on the platform, we can calculate that there is not much time for short remarks, and I just want to say that there will be room for the maximum. Ten brief remarks throughout the debate. Otherwise, one of two things will happen: there are rapporteurs who are not given the floor, and I think that may not be so fair, and that is why we must work this out together. Otherwise, I will have to cut some from short remarks. That's what the situation is. Sir. Martin Geertsen, thus enlightened.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112134855	Well, then it's time to get started. Thank you for the floor. We in the Left have long believed that there is a need for reforms in the field of health. In 2019, the previous government entered into an agreement with the Danish People's Party on a reform of health care, which then chose the current government to scrap without replacing anything. In the Left, we then presented another proposal last year for a reform of the Danish healthcare system, and I will draw up some main points here. Our project has, as it were, two parallel main aims: on the one hand, it has had a goal to move more health services closer to the individual Dane, and, on the other hand, we have a goal to ensure that an increasingly strained hospital service is relieved by strengthening what we call the close health care system, that is, everything outside the hospitals, with the aim of ensuring better time for the individual patient both inside and outside the hospitals. We therefore propose firstly to ensure better medical coverage in Denmark: We have a goal that by 2035 at the latest there should be 5,000 practitioners in Denmark. In the slightly shorter term, we will ensure, through various economic incentives, that general practice, if I may say so, can deliver more. This will also strengthen the free choice so that the individual Dane will have more opportunities when it comes to choice of doctor. In this context, we will also gradually increase specialist coverage in the thinner populated regions of the country. We also want to strengthen the municipal part of the Danish health service, partly with the aim of reducing the number of re-hospitals and partly with the aim of minimising the number of admissions in general. I think that we should have the objective of avoiding hospitalization; after all, it is so amusing not to be in the hospital either. That is why we are proposing the introduction of national quality standards in the municipal area, so that we have a uniform high quality of municipal health services, and we could propose starting with the following areas: general prevention areas, treatment of people with chronic diseases, rehabilitation of cancer patients, patients with brain damage and patients with psychiatric disorders. We also propose that more treatments be carried out in their own homes where possible. Very well is going around, but we need to strengthen the demand for meeting with the health care system from our own home. And that is why we are proposing the introduction of a genuine patient right in the digital field: we are proposing that patients should have the right to digital consultation with the health service in cases where it is justified by health care. We also believe that up to 35 health houses should be established across the country, where we gather the relevant competences, and there must of course be good geographical spread across the new health houses, which can give Danes easier access to high-quality healthcare closer to, and in health houses there must be room for many different regional, municipal and private competences and professional skills. In addition to the points I have already highlighted, we want to introduce a number of new patient rights with the aim of ensuring better coherence in treatment for the individual patient: we want to introduce the right to package courses for chronically ill medical patients and psychiatric patients. We also want to introduce the right to a patient responsible health care person, who can, as it were, hold you in hand when you as a patient move across departments, hospitals and sectors of the Danish healthcare system. We will also introduce annual health interviews for chronic patients. And finally, we will strengthen the diagnostics and establish what we call yes/no clinics where patients with weak symptoms can quickly clarify whether they suffer from, for example. cancer. In conclusion, I should also like to point out the need to strengthen emergency preparedness, particularly in the thinner populated regions of the country. In the Left, we are very, very ready to start negotiations on health reform. We are very sorry about this, and I do not think it is particularly unclear that the government has not had the same impatience. In fact, we must get started on strengthening the close health care system in order to relieve the hospitals for the benefit of patients and staff. On behalf of the Liberal Alliance, New Civil, Conservative, Danish People's Party and the Left, I shall make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament expresses criticism that the government has not called for negotiations on a health reform for two and a half years after its accession. a more robust health care system. The Government is hereby ordered to convene negotiations without delay, inter alia: with a focus on strengthening medical coverage, the municipal part of health care, employee relationships, patients' rights, the emergency area, home care, etc. V 25).
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135324	Thank you. That will then be part of the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135328	Thank you. One would almost think that the rapporteur was subject to an efficiency requirement, given how much could be said in such a short time, but, like so many other ways of improving efficiency, it says more about speed than it says about quality. Now a great many things have been mentioned, but does the rapporteur agree that if we are to strengthen the capacity of health services in the future, we also need to invest and pay for the tasks that we are further commissioning, and that we also need to recognise that the funds must also be kept up to cover the demographic features, so that there will be more elderly people? I would therefore just like to ask whether the Left is therefore also prepared to vote in favour of a welfare law, which must, of course, be the prerequisite for us to do this exercise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135420	In all the time we have been in government, we have constantly spent more and more money on the Danish health care system. However, I agree with the Prime Minister that this is about not just spending more money, but actually spending it wisely. That is why we are proposing and pointing out so strongly that we need to strengthen the close health care system, otherwise it will be a nuisance for patients who need to spend their time in hospitals, and it will in fact be more expensive. So it is a good investment to spend money on strengthening the close health care system, and we have, of course, set aside over 1 billion in our draft budget. kr. to precisely strengthen the Danish health service and here to a particular extent the close health care system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135510	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135511	Now I am well aware of the funding proposals that the Left usually makes and did so in relation to the previous Health Agreement. After all, it was also based on efficiency improvements and on expected savings that could be found, for example. the closure of the regions. But the central question remains: is the Left willing to commit itself to also covering the funds needed to cover the costs of the increasing number of elderly people, including health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135540	We have, as I said in my little recital, sir. Peder Hvelplund, the gradually spent more and more money. I do not think there is any government, nor does the former Social Democratic government, which did not devote any more money to strengthening the Danish health service and to spending on the Danish health service, but my point is that we can use • I think it was Søren Brostrøm who mentioned this the other day • the gross domestic product two or three times in the Danish health service. That is why it is basically about spending the money wisely and sensibly, and we therefore believe that it is appropriate to invest in the near health care sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135614	Jeppe Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135615	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on that. In other words, wise and sensible could sound like savings. It is not quite true what is being said here. The then bourgeois government in agreements with the regions, in the municipal agreements, did not cover the demographic features. We have then chosen to do so while we have the power, and that is why there is a connection between that and that question, Mr President. Peder Hvelplund asks, namely, about the welfare law. Well, is the Left willing to cover the demographic move? That is, in fact, the question. It has to be said that what is the history is that you did not do so and that, on top of that, you had a green harvester saving. It is true that we do not solve everything with the economy, but it is, after all, quite central to let the money go with when there are more elderly people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135656	I think, sir. Jeppe Bruus' memory is short. Well, out of the last 10 years, there's been a Social Democratic government over the six years just so we get it in place. Well, there is a period of government from 2011 to 2015, when the Social Democratic Party had the power of government. Again, we can keep spending money. I think we can spend all the money we can think of in the Danish healthcare system, which is why it is basically about spending the money wisely. In our proposal for a financial regulation, we will also come forward with money for health. We have done so in all the years in which we have had government power, and we will do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135744	Sir. Jep Bruus.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135745	That's fine, but if you measure what you did in the 4 years you last sat in power it's not that long ago you underfunded the demographic move for 3 out of 4 years. The fourth year I think it was zero, but for the rest of the three years you had under-financing in relation to the demographic trend. Those are the numbers. Well, it's not something I'm making up; you can go down and read. That is why, of course, the issue is central, even when we are discussing welfare law and when we come into this. We're not gonna solve everything with money. That's true. That is also why we need debureaucratisation and all sorts of other things. However, it is crucial that, when more older people and therefore greater needs arise, the money is also spent on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135820	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135821	That is clear from a reply to the Committee on Finance, which I am counting on to be Mr. Jeppe Bruus knows that in the years 2015-2019 we spent 6 billion. kr. in the whole area of health. It is in black and white in a reply given to the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee. I think that we can continue to spend money in the Danish healthcare system, and so must we, but the point is to use them wisely, and that is why we say that if we really have to invest here now, then we have to invest in hospitals, but also in the near health services to keep patients away from hospitalization.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135859	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135900	Thank you. I would like to dwell on the rapporteur's response to standards. For I believe that social and health workers in the care of the elderly know very well that fluids are needed to prevent urinary tract infections, and so they are also interested that more patients should be given the opportunity to receive treatment at home. When that does not happen, it is typical because it will then be at the expense of some other tasks. I am surprised that in the municipalities and regions, which the rapporteur also represents, there is this disagreement here. Why can we not agree on how to solve the task together? What is it in the existing cooperation structures that does not long ago find a solution to how to ensure patient care under the patient's conditions, so that treatment can also be provided at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112135950	I shall not be able to say that, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. I can just say that I think there are many patients who experience that if you live in X-købing, you can get one type of service, and if you live in Y-købing, you can get another type of service, and when you are discharged from the hospital, it can be very different service levels that are delivered, if I may say so. We are very concerned that we will have a uniform high standard in relation to the municipal part of the health service. That is also why, in my speech here before, I made a small trick of saying that we need to have some quality standards in the municipalities, so that we have a uniformly high standard in the service provided by the municipalities. In fact, as I hear, there is no disagreement about this across regions and municipalities. The municipalities, including the National Association of Municipalities, are also concerned that we will have national quality standards on health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140042	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140043	I think it is going to smell a little bit of the municipalities thinking that if they get these standards, they will probably also get some knots from the regions to solve tasks that the regions usually take care of or vice versa for that matter. After all, the tasks must be solved in any case. If it is the case that you have to carry out more tasks in the municipalities and also more health-care tasks, then you also have to have more health-care staff than you already have. The question is: does the rapporteur believe that we have the necessary staff to carry out those tasks in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140117	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140118	No, I certainly don't think so. I think this is gonna be a little bit of a combination of • and I know that's going on in the regions and municipalities • how the individual employee groups can better complement each other. It's like the one answer, and there's probably a lot more. But I would also just like to point to another. I think it is very strange that there are very long queues in relation to foreign labour, both in relation to doctors and nurses who are queued and want to enter and work on the Danish labour market. I think they should if they're highly qualified.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140148	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Jep Bruus, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140211	Thank you. Not many people can predict great pandemics, but that's why you can do things in the right order when you're in the middle of a pandemic. That's kind of how I thought of it when I saw the call for this urgent request on how to strengthen our health care. After all, we all agree that we must, and we also agree that the need is urgent. But there is, of course, in the question and in the call itself a criticism, or at least among the parties that have called, an understanding that it would probably have been better if there had been a bourgeois government with the Left in the lead, perhaps still away with Lars Løkke Rasmussen at the table end. The health services would have been better and we would have been in the process of reform. But the reality is just another when politics is to be given priority and money is to be distributed. Perhaps it is here too that the differences in Danish policy emerge very clearly. When, as a social democratic government, we have made economic agreements with the regions, as I mentioned earlier in the question to Mr. Martin Geertsen, it is the case that we have let the money go when more children and older people have arrived. We have actually invested in those regional agreements in addition to the demographic trait. The last time we had the Left in government, it was far from that and it was not that long ago. There was always less money in the agreements with the regions than the demographic features cost. In other words, everything else was equal, the regions were left with a bad starting point for running health care than before the Left had the power of government. Even the then chairman of the Danish Regions of the Left had to say honestly that the S-government's first economic agreement with the regions in 2019 was the biggest boost to the regions since the financial crisis. In fact, the S-government's three economic agreements with the regions have raised their economies more than the previous six economic agreements combined. Social democracy has thus boosted the economy of the regions by a total of 4 billion. kr. and thus strengthened our health care significantly. So there is also a difference in health where we have had a willingness to give high priority to the health of the Danes. I shall now cut my speaking time slightly in respect of reaching all the rapporteurs, so I shall not make so much of all the other good things we have done, which have also been mentioned by the Minister, but in fact just say that we have been able to praise ourselves a little happily that the Left's plans for major structural changes with the abandonment of all the regions did not materialise. Imagine if we had been in the middle of it when the pandemic hit, but of course you can always be backwards, because no one can predict a pandemic. But I have to say that before I was elected to the Danish Parliament here most recently, I was Head of Communications in SKAT and later in the Danish Tax Office, and I was employed in 2016, when it was in front of dividing SKAT into seven new agencies. It was an excellent and sensible decision taken by the then bourgeois government, but also a huge exercise, which, of course, takes very much on management and staff when it comes to such a reform exercise. Therefore, it seems very reasonable that when you are in the middle of the pandemic, you should not embark on a comprehensive restructuring or reform of our health services. As I said, no one can predict great pandemics, but you can do things in the right order when you're in the middle of you. That is why we have also said that the health issue is coming as soon as possible, and it has also been a little more concrete in today's speeches from our two ministers. Thank you for the floor. And then, before I finish, I will say that I have a text for adoption which I, on behalf of Radicals, the SF and the Social Democrats, would like to read out: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament invites the government to invite to broad health reform negotiations, cf. the understanding paper, in spring 2022, when the pandemic decreases, focusing on future-proof health care with structural changes, strengthening cross-cutting cooperation and close health care, including strengthening prevention work, quality of treatments, digital contexts and recruitment challenges. • V 26).
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140615	Thank you. I understood that the rapporteur shorted his speech so that we had a little more time. So that gave me three more seconds, so it's always something. There is a brief comment on Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140626	Thank you very much. I just want to say I get so tired. I get so tired of us hearing about economic agreements and saying that, uh, you just want to shut down the regions, so we can't, instead of the answer to what is being asked. When are we going to start a health reform? For you have opened up some of it; that is what you say. So, you have gone in and looked at birth grants, and nurses and some other things have been looked at, some of the parts that were in the reform that we presented. But maybe you're just hiding the last thing, that is, what you don't want to be quite yourself about, in the end? That is what this is all about. When do we call for negotiations with the parties of the rest of the Folketing instead of just bringing in everything we did back then? You want me to find the numbers from the last time you were in government, because how much did you save? Why don't you answer what's being asked?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140714	Well, now I have a speech paper, and I understand that I cut out a little bit, but that part of it I actually answered quite precisely. I also referred to what both the Minister for Health and the Prime Minister said here earlier. There were also quite clear answers. And now I think I can save us a few seconds if I stop here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140728	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140729	But it's just repetition on repetition. It could be clever if you said something else and you wanted something else and said something about what things you would like to put into the agreements you want the other parties to support around. You've taken something. In other words, you go out and say that we need close hospitals and that you have to have one thing and the other, that is to say some of the things that should actually be in such an agreement. You go out with that yourself, and how will you find a broad majority to the end?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140758	That was another question. So I leave it to the Minister for Health to present our proposal when it comes to this, and I will not repeat what the Minister for Health and the Prime Minister said about the time horizon, which was also very clear. When I keep a little touch on the economy and history, it is because it does not matter whether you, for example, are involved. is in favour of the regions or not in the agreement made by the then VLAK government with the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140823	Then it's mr. Martin Geertsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140826	Thank you. Well, just to a start here: There's hardly an eye dry when Mr. Jeppe Bruus talks about all the blessings of the regions. I'm so old and I don't know how old mr. Jeppe Bruus is that I remember that the Social Democratic Party was opposed to the establishment of the Regional Councils. And that's why there's hardly an eye dry now, where it's kind of like what to say about the main corners of the public sector in Denmark. So I guess we shouldn't just leave it at that, sir. We all have our own boxing in the history. Jeppe Bruus? Sir. Jep Bruus asked me some questions about the welfare law, and I would just like to ask: does Mr. Jeppe Bruus not that the money must be present in the Danish welfare community before it is used?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140914	Yeah, I actually think that's a really good idea, for example. that you do not give unfunded tax relief because you expect it to have some dynamic effects that will allow you to bring the money home later. And when it turns out that the money isn't coming, tax cuts have been financed. So I actually think it is a very good idea to make sure that there is a link between the expenditure and the revenue that you have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140935	Sir. Martin Geertsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112140936	So the same logic must also apply when spending taxpayers' money on public sector expenditure. Builds the guarantees that Mr. Jeppe Bruus points out in relation to the actual public sector as a whole, on the assumption that the money is present, or are they based on the assumption that it is done just no matter what? I think we owe it to an answer as to whether the money should be present before it is spent. I do not think it is quite clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112141005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112141007	Now it is not my job to offer guarantees. I certainly do not know everything about politics, but I have gradually learned that the word guarantees are rarely used in here, and that is probably very clever. What I actually referred to are the regional agreements. Here it is clear that if you say that you want to cover the demographic move, the money must keep up. That is what we have done in our regional agreements. We have made the best regional agreements for 10 years, as the then chairman of the Danish Regions said. So we have actually let the money go with the opposite of what I pointed out the bourgeois government did every year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112141040	I have two more comments to make on short remarks, and since they are comments to the rapporteur of the governing party, I choose to include the short comments because I assume that there is a little more interest here. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112141052	Thank you. I'm wondering too. It was the Social Democracy which opposed the creation of the regions and which opposed the freedom of choice that we implemented back in 2001, when patients were on waiting lists for years. But let it go. Does it not impress the rapporteur that the Medical Association, the KL and the Danish Regions are putting a lot of pressure on and are now saying quite clearly that the corona should not be the excuse for not getting started? That is the clear message from the many, many organisations that are out there in reality. Doesn't that make an impression? So should I just understand whether it is at the end of the first quarter that there should be both an initiative and a debate, or is it in the spring? So for me, there's a big difference. I think both patients and staff are waiting impatiently.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112141155	Then we get answers from the rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112141156	Yes, it makes an impression when stakeholders approach and deliver important messages. It always does. Secondly, on the precise time perspective: now it became a line, and I think that you will have the opportunity to hear it now I can see that the Minister for Health nods and therefore I think I will let some others, namely those who are going to present it, answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112141220	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112141221	I am going to take down what the Prime Minister started by saying, namely that there must be both a debate and a debate in the first quarter of 2022. I hope that this is what we stand by and not the proposal for adoption that has been negotiated with the support parties. That's kind of what we're taking down. That is, in fact, a good thing, because that is not what was said in the Prime Minister's New Year speech, so it can move within 14 days, so that we can get further and closer to giving patients and staff...
ParlaMint-DK_20220112141255	Thank you, sir. Hans Andersen. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112141257	After all, we have just had the opportunity to put the question to the Prime Minister, and then it seems a little strange to put it to the Socialist rapporteur, who then has to answer on behalf of the Prime Minister. I think I won't.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112141309	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. So that means we can move on. Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112141332	Thank you. Does the Minister consider that it is satisfactory that the government has not acted with due care in such a crucial area for Danish patients as the close and coherent health care, when it appears that it is only very late in the process that the government's own closed committee of officials has not been ambitious enough, and why has the Ministry not intervened in the past so that the current delay of six months could have been avoided? Does that sound familiar to you? Yes, and I can reveal that it was the Social Democratic Health Rapporteur Flemming Møller Mortensen who said so in February 2017. At the same time, there were several consultations in which the Socialist rapporteur was incredibly aggressive and felt that it was a failure of duty that patients were not guaranteed better treatment and more focus on coherent health care. It was in 2017. It was also mentioned earlier by, I do not know whether it was the Prime Minister or the Minister for Health that you were also after the previous government, but then you should have seen that this was something you had to start with as soon as you got the government. This is one of the things that we in the Danish People's Party think is paradoxical, i.e. that we are still waiting. I am sorry about the corona, but if we are to evaluate the last few years, the government has only increased inequality and allowed patients to be lost on the floor. I mean, who doesn't remember those cancer patients who haven't been able to figure out or treat? Who doesn't remember the elderly who haven't been able to get their lungs checked with the doctor? Who doesn't remember that the psychiatric area just got worse and worse? And then I know we're talking about a psychiatry plan, and it's gonna be lucky soon. At least we've got a timer on that. But it's been a long time since we talked about it. I was able to hear that the Minister for Health told us at yesterday's consultation that this major reform would be awful to implement in the middle of the corona, and I totally agree. It should not have been some major reform in which we had to move around everything and everyone, but the low-hanging fruits, i.e. those where we could have actually improved things in a short time, could be taken. And some of them, of course, have been taken by the government, that is what I also mentioned to the Socialist rapporteur. After all, some of the proposals have been made in the reform we were making, that is to say, to give some rights to babies and to have some more doctors and nurses, and there have also been some patient rights in the field of psychiatry, but it is still missing in the small. But there was a lot more we could do. So, in the Danish People's Party, we propose that geriatric nurses be employed in general practice with their own activities, and it would benefit some of the elderly patients, including here under the corona, where there has been 5-6 weeks of waiting to have a time with the doctor if they wanted to see them at all. There could be a geriatric nurse doing her part, and at the same time the doctor could actually take in more patients, especially in those areas where there is a lack of general practitioners. You could also go in and secure some health agreements, so there were some quality requirements, not least in relation to the increasing number of beds in the municipalities, so that these patient rights we have actually follow, whether you are admitted to your own home or out in the municipality. 'Cause they don't follow. There are still municipalities that take for board and lodging, I was saying when you are admitted to a nursing home instead of at the hospital. So I wanted to change that very quickly, and it is not something that will cost money here and now. Today there is still social and geographical inequality in the use of healthcare by older people, and that is where action should be taken. And yes, it annoys me when you keep saying that the reform was about closing down the regions. We have said that is not what this is about. We have seen clearly that this was not what you wanted, but all the other things you could bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112141746	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see that there are any brief comments. So, after a little despriting, I shall give the floor to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112141804	We need a health reform, or perhaps we really need to rectify a starving health service. We have now had a number of years, and we have been able to see how wrong things are when we were hit by a pandemic. 2-percent productivity requirements for too many years have tightened the screw too hard, and corona became a magnifying glass for huge cracks in health care, where in particular the lack of staff and beds and preparedness has become so apparent. However, corona has also shown some strengths in health care, which I also believe must be taken into account in further work on reform, so perhaps it is not quite so wrong that we have not yet started. For example, I have attached myself to greater inter-disciplinary cooperation, experience with patients who recovered while waiting for surgery, and not least experiences with citizens who took responsibility themselves as long as we became involved. These are experiences that I believe are valuable for further work on possible reform. That is why I do not think it is a big problem for health reform to wait for us to deal with an epidemic. I note that municipalities and regions are also moving towards negotiations on health reform, but this has also led me to think what these very specific challenges are that regions and municipalities do not think they can solve in the current cooperation forums. For example, when no solutions have been found to the demarcation circular, or when no solutions have been found for more patients to be treated at home, even if we really want to do so, what are the elements of a health reform that need to be resolved? I do not believe that this is a lack of knowledge or will, but rather a question of resources and perhaps also of whether the resources are being used in the right way. That is why I believe, first and foremost, that there is a need for an everyday revolution. I have not come up with the expression myself, but I think it is very good enough for how precisely it points into some of what I think is most important right now and most urgent right now. Health is one of the most life-affirming subjects, when you have the opportunity to use good professional skills for the benefit of patients. But what is at least as important is time to solve the tasks professionally correctly, create security for patients, and the employees know how. I think that the most important task right now is to ensure that we have real opportunities to do the right thing, and there we have to talk about a nurse's conflict and about crises among staff, calls from staff, calls from hospitals. It's also about pay. It is about equal pay, and it would be good, before we embark on a new health reform, to send out a signal that an Equal Pay Commission is also going to send out money to correct unequal pay in the health sector, and then, of course, it is not least about more regular well-educated colleagues in everyday life. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112142123	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112142139	Thank you to the bourgeois parties for raising the debate and to the Prime Minister for running for it. There is no doubt that this is one of the bound tasks facing the Assembly as a whole, and in the Radical Left we have no doubt that it will be absolutely crucial to our ability to fulfil the huge task of ensuring the future of the Danish health service, that this will be an agreement across the political centre, not just because it will then be future-proof and you can make plans that extend beyond the next parliamentary term, which extends ten years into the future, but also because I believe that, although we agree very much on a number of the objectives, it will also require a broad majority and agree on what is difficult, namely how to achieve those objectives. If I were to point out the three points on which I actually believe to be common points of reference, as I hear the debate today, which I think we all agree on in a way, then it would of course be the first thing to have a greater focus on prevention, as several have said. The second is that this time we will have to strengthen the primary health sector. It can be said that the vast majority of the funds we have put into hospital and health care in the last 20 years have been to counties and later regions, to hospital services which have arrived, it can be said, the clinical efforts there are for the benefit of the elderly and the ageing population and the diseases that they have, whereas there is not much more extra money for private practices and special practices and the whole primary relatively. I sense that everyone agrees that the close health care, the primary health care, this time is next. Finally, as the third one, and perhaps that is what I indicated in my question, we must see as the greatest challenge to ensure that we have enough hands and heads. We can do this by creating a less bureaucratic health sector, and we can also do this by getting help from outside, foreign labour, but it also requires a long, tough move to get some new groups into the labour market, to create a framework, both an economic framework, a structural framework, a fiscal framework that can invite in more groups. I have such a scare scenario, and it is that if we do not manage to get more staff for the whole health sector, then the best people will continue to flee, as is happening to a certain extent today, not as much as one might fear, but if we do not get a proper working environment, they will flee the private sector, which will then be able to provide better services, which will then be assured by more and more people, and then we can get a slip of the way so that the private sector, instead of becoming a good, necessary supplement, which we at least support from the Radical Left, suddenly grows disproportionately in relation to what I think is really wanted from in here. So I actually believe that these three objectives, namely prevention, more focus on the primary sector and to ensure the necessary qualified staff and proper working conditions for that staff, can be agreed quickly, but when it comes to how it is going to happen, I think there will be some discussions where the risk of jumping into the usual trenches and standing and hammering at each other and saying that more money is needed for lower taxes or for more foreign labour to be tempting, and where it becomes absolutely crucial that we dare to use all the tools in a balanced overall approach that has a long-term and strategic aspect. We therefore believe and hope that we will have these negotiations over the middle and can conclude these negotiations over the middle, just as we should do in a whole range of areas other than equal health. But health becomes a touchstone. We believe in the Prime Minister when she says that we will have negotiations in the first quarter, and that is why we are also included in the proposal for adoption, which, among other things, is the case. The government party is involved in the presentation and we look forward to those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112142548	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112142550	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I just want to hear something. For that depends not only on who you make agreements with, but also on what the political content is, and there we have some experience of how health care has been dealt with over the last several years, where there has been real under-financing, and where sufficient funds have not been taken into account for the tasks we have commissioned, and we see that, among other things. The consequence of now. So I just need to hear the radical rapporteur, Mr. Martin Lidegaard, if he does not agree that it is necessary for us to be able to do this task, that we also ensure that we keep the status quo in relation to it, that is to say that we cover the increasing costs of the increasing number of elderly people to be treated in health care, and therefore whether it is not also necessary for us to be able to do this exercise, that we get a welfare law, which in any case puts a bottom below that, in addition to, of course, investing in order to do this task.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112142642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112142643	There certainly needs to be more resources. I just remind Enhedslisten that it doesn't help to allocate more resources if there aren't any nurses, doctors and midwives to hire. Then you can allocate all the resources it needs to be, but it has absolutely no effect unless you can get the staff you need. So, yes, there is. Do we think that the right way to ensure this is a welfare law that simply maintains the status quo today and then presents blindly in the various sectors? No, we do believe that more funding is needed for the prevention and the immediate and primary, and what effect it will have in relation to the regions and the hospital system, I dare not stand and freestyle about here today. We are in favour of money being set aside, but whether it should follow, and if I may say so, the current sectors and then an automatic projection, which, as it were, lies in the whole idea of a welfare law, we are not convinced that is the right way to go about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112142732	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112142733	Yes, now I think, if you care about how to attract more nurses to the profession, that a government intervention in the nurse conflict was probably not the most sensible thing, and that was indeed radicals adding votes, and that is why we have another task in relation to, for example. the winter package that we adopted in the Finance Act and to continue it so that we can attract staff. But the question remains. Because if we are to provide the means to carry out the tasks that Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentions, the premise is that we are still laying a bottom, that is, that we are not going down any further than that. Therefore, I cannot fully understand the opposition to saying that we must at least have a welfare law that ensures that we do not go down to the level, whatever the colour of the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112142810	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112142811	There is such a fundamentally different view of how deep the problem of the lack of nurses and the labour force is. We are in favour of better working conditions for nurses, and we are in favour of having more for that reason. But let's just say that they had done as Enhedslisten wanted, and you could say that had added the nurses' demands, what about all the other areas where we lack employees in the public sector? After all, there is a shortage of labour everywhere, and this calls for more fundamental economic and social reforms, but this requires us to start by recognising that there is a shortage of labour in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112142846	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. There are no more brief comments. I'm gonna ask Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard about to drink off.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112142911	Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112142913	Thank you for that, President. If there has ever been any doubt as to the importance of a properly funded health service for our society, then that doubt has been thoroughly swept off the table with the corona epidemic. Here it was very clear how much it means that we have a health service that can adapt itself to an acute crisis that has sufficient capacity, both in terms of resources and beds, and well prepared preparedness, both in terms of protective equipment and vaccines, and, of course, good and decent terms and conditions for health staff, who can ensure both good working conditions and patient safety and ensure recruitment and retention of staff. Securing it is a political responsibility. Has that been fulfilled? No, I don't think you can say that. What has ensured that we got through the epidemic fairly is an immense effort by our dedicated healthcare professionals, often in spite of the conditions we have offered them. In the run-up to the epidemic, we have had a large number of governments which have pursued a bourgeois reduction policy. Both under Anders Fogh Rasmussen, under Helle Thorning-Schmidt-Schmidt and under Lars Løkke Rasmussen, health care has been starved by an efficiency regime, among others. with the devastating productivity requirement, which was expected to double for half, as long as the staff got a rocket in the back. It was an indecent treatment of our health care, our staff and our patients. That is why we need to invest in our common welfare and health. There is a need to invest in dedicated and indispensable health professionals and to turn the ship around so that working in the health care system becomes attractive again. And that is why it is also crucial that we ensure that we continue the initiatives relating to the winter package that are being taken in the context of the Finance Act and that we also commit ourselves to meeting the recommendations made by the Committee on Labour Structures later this year. It is an important prerequisite for a new health reform that we ensure a new welfare law that obliges changing governments to include money in the tasks we undertake, that we invest in health care so that we rebuild capacity and, most importantly, that we get rid of unequal wages in the female-dominated welfare professions, also in health care, so that we can pay a salary that ensures continued recruitment and retention of health professionals. We owe them that. But there is a need for health reform, and it is urgent. We have pressed for the negotiations to start, and we owe it to all actors that we take responsibility seriously and get the tracks laid for the near health care of the future. It is therefore unacceptable that the government has not called for negotiations yet, and we look forward, of course, to this happening as soon as possible. It is absolutely essential that we ensure that we have a health reform that strengthens our common publicly funded healthcare, where we invest in capacity and provide adequate resources, both in regional health care and also in the development of the close healthcare sector, so that we strengthen resilience, strengthen prevention and reduce health inequalities. Therefore, it is essential that there should be a clear break with the previous Blue Block course with under-financing and unrealistic efficiency requirements, only because they have an ideological desire to create a breeding ground for increased privatisation, where health care priorities are not made according to health professional judgements, but instead according to how best to strengthen the bottom line of private hospitals. The health service is all too important for the right to be given the opportunity to make it an ideological playground. We have seen the consequences of this. So get called for the negotiations so that we can ensure a well-functioning public health service with proximity, quality, equality, a good working environment and high patient safety. It's urgent. Then I will read out a proposal for adoption from the Enhedslisten: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that health care is under pressure on the capacity, resources and wages and working conditions of the indispensable health care provider. This is the consequence of the efficiency requirements and under-financing of previous governments. It hits patients and increases inequality. The Folketing instructs the government to call for negotiations on a health reform that strengthens capacity, retention and equality in health. • V 27)
ParlaMint-DK_20220112143354	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further debate. And then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Rohde.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112143359	A great deal can be blamed on the Fogh government for not cutting down on health care. In other words, there was a real growth in health care from 2001 to 2010 of 3%. And if you follow the instructions from Danske Patients, the Medical Association, the Danish Nursing Council, FOA, Danske Handicaporganisationer og Eldere Sagen, you have to land at 2%. in terms of annual growth to keep up with the pressure of expenditure. So it's just to say to Mr. Knox. Peder Hvelplund that you can spin many stories about the Fogh government, but it is simply not true that health care was cut back at that time. There was a real growth rate of 3%.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112143443	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112143443-2	However, it is just a fact that the economic agreements between the government and the regions have not provided sufficient funding over the past many years, and thus there has been a gradual erosion of the level of health care. And if you look at the period over the past 30 years together, there has been a gradual erosion of the economy. It is true that there have been some years of investment, and we are doing so right now. So it can be said that with this government we are covering the demography; we are adding additional funds under the Finance Act. However, this is not enough to cover the shortfall in relation to the increased number of costs incurred in health care. And we have also seen figures on that from among others. The Medical Association.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112143529	Sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112143530	Yeah, yeah, but it just doesn't have anything to do with the Fogh government. I mean, you have to be careful not to fix a bakery for a blacksmith, because that's the way it is. I agree that there is under-financing, and that is why I keep saying: get it now recreated. For that was the mistake that took place under the Fogh government, and the Socialists then agreed that it was a capital mistake to remove tax printing from the regions. It's about our basic financing structure... there's something wrong with it. But it was just to tell sir. Peder Hvelplund states that there were no cuts in health care under the Fogh government.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112143606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112143607	Nevertheless, it was also under the auspices of the Fogh Government that, at least as far as I remember, the efficiency requirement was introduced, where 2% would have to be delivered annually. more like an efficiency rational that was put in. And that was actually going to have quite dramatic consequences in subsequent years. Fortunately, we have now come to an end. But beyond that, I fully agree with Mr. Jens Roh said that we should get the tax bill back to the regions so that we could ensure that the level of revenue could also be adjusted in relation to the expenditure that is coming. But that is a completely different discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112143640	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and it is being spritted off. That's fine, thanks for that. Then the next rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Per Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112143652	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health for coming here to shed some light on why the government has done nothing to strengthen the health services structurally, although we were promised negotiations on a health reform that was to take place last year. Now we write 2022 and the reform has been postponed. So the question is whether the government at all recognises that there is a need for reform, whether the government recognises that the pressure on our health care is so great and that it is not only due to covid-19. The government could have started work in 2019. After all, with the involvement of relevant health authorities, patient organisations, medical companies and other actors, the bourgeois government had worked out, and the plan that was, i.e. the patient first, the government could have been based on, and we have also heard the Minister of Health say several times that there are plenty of good elements in that plan. We have also understood that the government will keep the regions, but the patient-oriented elements of the plan are therefore very, very welcome to use with us. Because it is indisputable that we have a pressure on health care and that pressure continues. There are probably more of us who have noticed that, for example. KL's chairman, Social Democrat Jacob Bundsgaard, calls for a health reform, among other things. bearing in mind that the number of diabetics is growing towards 2030, which will mean that 1.5 million more outpatient controls will have to be carried out in hospitals if we do not change the organisation, and we would like it to be resolved as close to the citizens as possible, and so does KL. It is also well known that there will be more older people and fortunately for what the forecast points to a doubling of the number of 80-year-olds, and with age we also know that there will be more diseases, and this calls for a strengthening of the close health care system, not least general practice. After all, we have far too few practitioners, yes, we have had that for too many years and that means that not everyone has access to a doctor they know and who knows his patients, and we know that it is extremely important for patients and that it raises the quality of medical work and increases patient satisfaction, that the doctor is familiar and knows his patients. We also know that those who are referred to a clinic with loose doctors have a higher level of references to hospitals, i.e. increased pressure on our hospitals. I am therefore also surprised that the government will not be involved in training enough specialists in general medicine, so that once and for all we can ensure that all Danes are given the opportunity to have their own doctor. You have had the opportunity, but you voted against an increase in attendance when I tabled the proposal in this Chamber. After all, the PLO has judged that we need to reach 5 000 practitioners against the 3,300 that we currently have and which do not meet the needs we currently have. On the whole, we need more diagnosis and treatment to be carried out closer to the citizens, either of the general practitioners, of the medical practitioners or perhaps of the individual chronic patients' own homes. So the question is what will the government do to ensure that all of us in Denmark have a well-functioning healthcare system that can be compared to the best in the world, and now I have noticed here that some negotiations will be convened, and we look forward to that and look forward to it with confidence. Because there is certainly a need for us to get started as quickly as possible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112144044	Thank you, sir. Per Larsen. There are no brief comments. So we move on from the Conservative rapporteur to the rapporteur from the New Citizens' Party. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112144101	Thank you. First of all, let me say that for me as well as for New Citizens, it does not matter whether we call it health homes or whether it is going to be called near hospitals. This is not a discussion we want to enter into. You can call it what you want, but it is the substance that is the essence of it, and I think we should also try to look forward. Then you can shoot at the fact that under the previous government there were some improvements that you do not like. But shouldn't we sit down and try to be constructive in this and see if we can find any content we can agree on? I think the citizens out there are asking for that. We in New Citizens have played out that we think there should be a boost of 3 billion. kr. on top of what is there, and we have also found funding for it. We agree that there must be increased decentralisation, and we think there are some good tactics in it, both from the previous government and from the current government. The focus that I think we need to have on this is the people who have to carry out the tasks of decentralised health care that we want. If we do not focus on those people and on giving them working conditions so that they can actually solve the tasks we want them to solve, then it doesn't help anything, and it is, no matter what structure you set up from in here. When the nurses out there yell at the guard that they are pressed, perhaps it is for some of them on the basis of something more activist and a demand for an always higher salary, but there were also a lot of people out there who shouted guard in the rifle that their working conditions made them unable to work so much, and I know it. My girlfriend is a nurse, she's been working in a heart warden for 13 years, and when you have a 12-hour shift without having time to go to the bathroom, without having time to eat, you can do it for a single day, and you can do it for two days too, but if you know you have to go home and sleep 10 hours, and then you have to get back to work, and you have two more of those guards afterwards, then you can't, and then you can't work full time. But when you do this structure, you can also look at what these norms out there can do. Because they know that when they go down part-time, they leave some work for their colleagues out there, and it hurts them too. So I actually think that many people will have a desire and may be able to watch working hours if working conditions and standards out there followed, so you had time to eat your lunch. If you come home and feel that you have actually delivered a professionally decent job, then I also think you will be able to see yourself in being in it for several hours and able to last for several hours, and when we can see that only about 52 per cent. If the nurses are full-time, there's a huge potential there. The same applies to the sosu assistants, where it is even worse where we can see that about 72%. of them are part-time, and we also know that they are also working in the near health care system. When so many people don't work full-time, we have a structural problem out there, and we have to address that in this as well. You can, when you look at the practitioners, and you say you need doctors, then shoot at this government, and you can shoot at the previous government, but when we sit down and do it, let's do this demographic projection, so we look forward in time and also many years into the future, so that we can cover this, and then we have to solve it with a focus on, not whether it should be one structure, or the other structure, whether we should call it one or the other, but what the real need for it out there is, both for the people who have to be in the system and the people who have to work in the system. This must be our desire from the New Citizens' Party for the forthcoming negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112144509	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112144522	Thank you for the floor. I am glad that we are having this debate in the Danish Parliament today about the Danish health service, and I am, because when the corona crisis began a few years ago, I was also the health rapporteur, and it has been incredibly educational. In the first papers from the Minister of Health, issued in March 2020, the pain limit for the number of respiratory patients in Denmark was approx. One thousand, and now it has been found that when the fight against an epidemic disease is pulling out, so it lasts for years, the pain limit is closer to 100 than it is to 1,000. It triggers a reflection: How can it be that in a rich country like Denmark, where we spend a huge part of our gross domestic product on public service, it is so difficult to deliver a robust effort? And that seems to be a sort of general problem, because it is not just our health care system that is having a hard time in a long fight against something, for example. the police too, and that applies to the defence. We can fight a disease or some criminal gangs or a military opponent for a few months or six months, but then crises should not last any longer. And you get an idea of where it is difficult to sit down and look at key figures, because Denmark has a very small defence if we look at the number of employees and the amount of equipment, we have one of the smallest police forces in Europe, compared to the population, and we are also one of the countries in Europe that has the smallest hospital capacity in relation to the population, so that is clearly the way we do things. It is cheap, but it also has consequences, there is no doubt about that. It is not a single government that has decided that it should be so, and it is almost always a broad majority that has voted through developments, so the problem we are discussing today has something to do with the way in which all Parliament and all governments work. When you sit in a government, you do not just have the right, you also have the duty to take the initiative and to play out, and then we other people will show up and make the most constructive moves we can. That is why, of course, we are pleased to be in a statement which makes it clear that the government, among other things, is. lessons learned from the experience with corona must take the initiative in reforming our healthcare system and that it should have been taken some time ago. However, I also believe that we need to consider the issue of reform in greater depth. In 2021 there was an incredibly good book about the last 20 years of reforms in Denmark, it is called the "Entreprenørstatet" and it was written by the politician Sigge Winther Nielsen, and one of the many good points in the book is that most reforms in Denmark since the year 2000 have failed, whether Denmark has had a red or a blue prime minister. And why are they? They are because they were not planned properly; because they did not aim to involve the sectors to be reformed; because there were no proper plans to implement the reforms; and because the Folketing and changing governments all too often lose interest when the reforms run over the bridge from Slotsholmen and out to it around Denmark where most people actually live. So the call from me today will be: we should not do a typical Danish standard reform again, because it is a reform that fails, a reform that is rushed through without thorough preparatory work and without involving the employees to be reformed, who are marketed with doorstep and spin and fanfares, and then it is forgotten, and the long tough move with the reform begins. A great deal is being said about the need for second-generation reforms, which is certainly true, but we also need reforms on the way we reform. Otherwise, this question debate is not for any purpose. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112144921	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the Christian Democrats. Here you go, sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112144940	It may, of course, be the many years in this industry that you seem to have heard it all before and to such an extent that you can almost feel that you hear voices or have lived a previous life, which reminds me that I actually find it a little sad that we do not get around the psychiatry in this discussion at all. But now it has to be mentioned here. When I listened to the debate in Parliament today, I remembered that it was exactly the same, Per Kaalund, Ester Larsen, Lone Møller and others were discussing in this Chamber in the 1990s. It may be that some decimals have changed in the discussions, but it is like the same things that go back. But a very, very pleasant exception in the series of speeches here was actually Mr. Henrik Dahl's speech, because it is good enough to talk about reforms, but there is a tendency that, firstly, very quickly it becomes a disguised austerity exercise, because we are not willing to take the basic discussion about our funding of them, but secondly, it is made so violent and huge that it is difficult to implement it. Although I also clearly believe that there are, of course, a number of things we need to discuss in the field of health and that perhaps there is a need for reform, I would still like to put forward the heretical idea that one might well consider that such an elephant should be taken in small bits, that is to say, taking things step by step without having to say to the outside world: try to see how big we can think. In other words, things are actually being taken in a way that allows us to monitor them in here, and so, above all, those who have to live with it in everyday life can keep up, and so there is a reasonable expectation vote. I don't know if it'll help, but I think we might be able to think about it. This should not stop me from thanking the Left and other bourgeois parties for bringing up this discussion, because it is important, and it is important that we have these overall discussions so that we put it into our own frontal lobe that we need to discuss how we can do better. But it is of no use, then, that we keep telling the people that we can get it all by half. There is no point in discussing a reform of the health system not discussing the economy in it. I think sir... Martin Lidegaard mentioned the word tax instrument. Now I don't know what sir. Martin Lidegaard thought in this context, but for us it is crucial that we get to grips with the financing structure that we have today, which is an obvious barrier to the fact that, as we have organised our health services regionally, we can also solve the tasks regionally. That is why I would like to see a recovery of the error that I myself helped to make at the time and that tax collection is reinstated in the regions. Then regional expectations can be reconciled and delivered in relation to what is being discussed regionally. I cannot understand why social democracy is so much against it, because they were the jugs against it when we carried it out. But that's the way things are. But that must be the request from here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112145354	Thank you, sir. Jens Roh. Then we are through the rapporteur's line and reached the Minister for Health, who will wind up the debate before Question Time starts at 9 a.m. 15.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112145412	Thank you very much for this debate, too. I have to say, to be perfectly honest, that when I had to prepare for this debate, I was wondering if this was a ritual tribal dance we were going through. I have also seen that some of the rapporteurs have been down to read in old consultations, where the chairs stood differently on the tables, and then there was criticism from the then opposition to the then government: why are you now waiting for the health reform, what comes, etc.? Of course there is something in it; there has to be, also here. I just have to say that my scepticism was put to shame. I think it has been excellent, good speeches, and I think it is also speeches that point in one direction, namely towards something that can be good for our health care. I think that during the course of the debate we were gifted with a great many strong speeches, and there are three main points that I have taken down and for which I think everyone has raised various points and different reasons. The first is that prevention must be strengthened. It was sir. Jens Rohde, who just mentioned a couple of former health politicians who have probably mentioned the same thing. There are probably also a great many health ministers who have stood on the platform right here and said that prevention must be strengthened. If we are to succeed in combating inequality in health, if we are to succeed in getting through the great change that we have in our demography in these years, which we did not have before, but which we now have, and if we are to succeed in achieving with our goal of giving the individual a better life, we must strengthen prevention. The second is this movement of bringing health care closer to citizens' everyday lives. There has been a movement which, for many reasons, also many good reasons, has gone the other way, and much of the specialization we have had is also a consequence of the fact that the Folketing, with a changing majority and other things, has invested, prioritised and lifted some of the areas where we previously were ill in Denmark. There we can see that in some of those areas we are actually much better now here, so some of the lifts that have been have actually been successful. Some of this is at the expense of proximity, and we can combine it with the increase in chronic patients we see, in other words families where there are family members who have one or more chronic diseases. We know this is increasing, we can see that it is increasing, and we know how many visits, how many hospital visits and how many re-hospitals and other things are helping to make life incredibly hard and miserable, and we also need to convert health care into closer to the citizen. The third point I have noted from today's debate is that of staff. It is the most important resource in our healthcare system. We have lots of hardware, lots of instruments and lots of cancer guns and other things, but what really is a shortcoming and what really needs to be invested in is our employees and time with patients. Then I have to say that it is always a pleasure that there are large parties and smaller parties and other things, and at the end of the day some of those who are a little more free to make their input, Mr President. Henrik Dahl and Mr. Jens Rohde, who said: Remember the implementation of this. The aim is not, of course, to reform which we are so pleased that we are closing the door and saying that we have dealt with this problem now, and then there are no more urgent questions in the Folketing. It is a super-thinker, and some direction needs to be adjusted, and that is the price adjustment, the investment and the robustness that is taking place in the coming years, and I look forward to inviting you to negotiations on this. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112145822	Thank you to the Minister for Health. There is no time for anyone else to ask for the floor, nor has anyone asked for it. The debate is closed. As I said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will only take place at a later date. The date of the vote will be announced as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112145841	I should like to inform you that Question No 1, by Mr von der Vring, will be answered in writing. 4 to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries of Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative is deleted from the agenda at the request of the author. Jens Roh. He has to ask questions about the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112145910	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112145914	Thank you. I haven't brought my glasses, so it's good that the question is short. What is the Minister's view of the explosion of municipal recycling shops in several Danish municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112145926	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112145928	Thank you. First of all, I must say that I do not actually have such a data base. I have no knowledge of the development of the number of municipal recycling shops, so I cannot confirm or deny whether it is the case that there is a knobfire there. However, I will try just to elaborate a little bit about the challenges that might lie in the problem. It is certain that we need to recycle more. It is also certain that it is good that municipalities play an active role there. However, we must ensure that voluntary organisations and private individuals have the opportunity to be the first ones to be responsible for the waste which is so much to be converted into a resource through recycling. That is also what is reflected in the legislation that will come into force on 1 July of this year, when we are simply imposing on municipalities that there should be an area in recycling stations where recyclable waste can be found and where private organisations and citizens can go and acquire these things before the municipality may be able to use them in a recycling shop.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150055	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150056	Thank you for your answer. I don't really have a data base either. I have what I hear from organisations such as the Red Cross, the Blue Cross, the Church's Cross Army and others who point out that where municipalities start to make recycling shops and recycling stores, they have a problem in acquiring the goods they are deeply dependent on entering the door. That is why I am raising this problem. After all, problems arise if the municipality takes over a task from civil society, which, after all, works fantasticly well in civil society. Then it is basically a weakening of civil society. That is why I would like the government to focus on the fact that there may be something here that we need to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150158	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150159	Well, I quite share, sir. Jens Roh's concern. It should not be the case that municipalities enter and enter their country, which may otherwise be on the basis of the best intentions, may be in danger of damaging the business with the very good purposes which are often associated with it, on the part of the voluntary organisations. So I think we should keep an eye on that. As I said, I do not really have any data to support it or the contrary, i.e. that it should be a problem that is increasing. Having said that, it is clear at least that the new agreement that we have made, which ensures priority in the recycling stations for voluntary organisations and private individuals in relation to acquiring these goods, is a positive move.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150244	Sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150245	It is, of course, the primacy that they feel is being undermined at the moment. I would also like to thank you for your answer and for the Minister's open mind in looking at this too. Is the government going to do something, so maybe the government will have a talk with KL about the fact that you might have to get a little lighten up here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150318	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150319	In fact, they do not have that priority today, but they will have it from 1 July. And yes, I think it is a good idea to have a dialogue with KL about it, also to see if they have a better overview than we have. It may well be that they have it. Then, of course, this is something we will discuss in the contract circle about the waste agreement that was made a few years ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150349	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150349-2	In fact, I have received a very fine reply from the Minister, so there is no reason to continue to excel in driving each other around the chain. So I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150359	Thank you. We shall proceed to the next question, which has also been asked by Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Jens Roh to the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150404	Here you go, sir. Jens Roh to read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150414	Thank you for that, and that is, after the fundamental discussion: does the Minister believe that municipal activity in relation to recycling shops strengthens or weakens civil society, let alone is in line with the political agreement on NGOs' (including the Red Cross and the Church's Cross Army) priority in access to consumer goods?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150438	We have been a little interested in this in connection with the previous question, but my answer is that I share Mr Van der Klaauw's view. Jens Roh's basic approach is that the municipal work out there can be quite good on this front too. I'm sure we agree on that, but it must of course not weaken the voluntary organisations. So I think I am covered in relation to saying what we have then done to try to ensure that this is not the case and also to assure that we are having a dialogue with the KL about whether we cannot do it even better or whether there are problems we have missed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150511	Sir. Jens Roh.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150512	It is good to have such an answer, and I am satisfied with that. I am very pleased that we share that concern, of course, on the assumption that we all have an interest, and I would stress this strongly, in having more recycling. We have that objective together. But we should not destroy something that works amazingly well and that is a gift to a lot of people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150539	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150541	No, that's right. I don't think we should.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150547	Thank you. It looks as if there are no further follow-up questions. So thank you to the Minister for Climate, Energy and Supply, and thank you to Mr. Jens Roh. It went a little fast here at the end, so we just need a minister. So we're gonna wait a minute. The next question is to the Minister for Transport, and this has been asked by Mrs Mona Juul of the Conservative People's Party. That is Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène. S 358.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150717	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150719	Thank you. The question is: What is the Minister's position on the criticism raised by the reconstruction of Aarhus Central Station, where among others. The municipality of Aarhus believes that the legal certainty of the citizens is compromised, as it among other things. can be seen from Jyllands-Posten's article •Aarhus Kommune criticizes the bill for the reconstruction of Aarhus Central Railway Station?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150739	The Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150740	Thank you for the question. The conversion of Aarhus Central Station is a central construction project in a chain of very large projects necessary for the new electric trains to run between Fredericia and Aalborg. In this context, a construction law is an important tool to ensure that the project can be implemented on time. A broad majority in the Danish Parliament, also the author's party, has decided to follow Banedanmark's recommendation to bring together all the sub-projects at Aarhus Central Station in a single project, so that the period of trackblocks and noise nuisances will be reduced. And that was a good decision. At the same time, a great effort has been made by Banedanmark to ensure that as many of the noisy work as possible is carried out during the daytime, at the expense of passengers' ability to take the train. Should you further minimize noisy work in the evening and at night, this would mean that the train passengers were bothered even more, and we might have to have a longer period with a completely closed Aarhus Central Station. In order to help the citizens of Aarhus during the reconstruction, the bill provides for the possibility of compensation and resettlement for those neighbours who are particularly vulnerable. It has also been previously requested by Aarhus Municipality in connection with their consultation response. That is why I would like to stress that we all have a common interest in ensuring that the reconstruction is done on time and with the least possible nuisance for neighbours and passengers. That is why I would also like to invite the questioner, together with the Transport Rapporteur of the Conservatives, to a coffee chat where we can address the issues that may be involved, including how we can take the initiative to ensure dialogue between the municipality, Banedanmark and my ministry in the form of meetings or similar, in order to find out how best to help each other in the further course and, above all, to ensure that neighbours can get a resettlement or compensation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150946	Thank you. Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112150948	Thank you, Minister. We'll definitely get to a coffee meeting like this. Thank you for inviting us. I should like to dwell on this point with regard to legal certainty, because there is, after all, a professor of administrative law at the University of Copenhagen, Michael Götzsche, who says that there is a legal challenge if you cut off the right of appeal; and if you cut off the right of appeal under the environmental protection law, that is quite a drastic change. Is it really customary practice in the Ministry of Transport to remove the citizens' right of appeal to a body other than the Ministry of Transport itself in such cases, and does the Minister not consider it at all a matter of legal certainty that citizens' right of appeal should be removed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151024	It is a very special situation in which quite a lot of people have, I think, overlooked the fact that what the draft law is really about is being able to ensure fairly generous compensation for those neighbours who are being harassed. Because we cannot avoid being bothered; passengers do, by the way. The aim is to find a way of doing so which is as smooth as possible, just as we know from the metro construction in Copenhagen, where there were also some rather more far-reaching compensations than those normally known.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151059	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151100	There is no doubt that the very thing about compensation for citizens is of course interesting. The neighbouring package notice for the Metrocity ring made it very clear what compensation citizens could expect. In the case we are talking about here, there is no certainty as to the extent of compensation or criteria for who is covered, as I understand it. Therefore, like the municipality of Aarhus, I am very concerned about how affected citizens are guaranteed their night sleep and thus health during the period of these works, because it will of course bother. Why does the Minister want to remove the possibility for the municipality of Aarhus to regulate noisy works and thus balance the progress of the project towards citizens' health?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151142	I think I will just repeat what I also said at the outset, namely that it was actually the City of Aarhus that wanted people to be safe. And I am not sure that we have fully understood the need, in order to ensure the regulatory framework that is around it. Among other things: In order to ensure that the Folketing and the Transport Committee also understand the elements surrounding it, I want to ensure that a technical review of the bill is carried out prior to the first reading of the bill. Because the aim is not to bother citizens as much as possible, but rather to ensure that citizens are compensated for the inconveniences they will inevitably have when we have to ensure the electrification of the railways.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151224	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151225	Well then, it is good that we have a coffee meeting, I think, because there are at least some things that need to be clarified there, and if Aarhus Municipality can choose some other options, we have to have it on the field. But there is also the point of removing the separation between environmental authority and developer. Does the Minister consider it appropriate that the Ministry of Transport should be able to determine the limits and rules for pollution and nuisances during the conversion process and that complaints can only be made to the Ministry of Transport, so that the Ministry is both responsible for the reconstruction and for the handling of complaints?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151255	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151255-2	Once again, we are in a situation that is somewhat dilemmaous, because on the one hand, the municipality of Aarhus has wanted these very far-reaching opportunities to compensate, and on the other hand, the municipality does not want the legislation that comes with it. So you have little had two opposing hearings in this regard. I have also personally wondered why the municipality of Aarhus has done so. It doesn't change the fact that I also intend to live up to the fact that we also take the dialogue, as I also indicated at the outset; so both Aarhus Municipality are invited to dialogue, but also take the discussion widely in the Folketing, which is also behind the great ambitions we have for expansion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151339	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Transport and to Mrs Mona Juul. The next question is by Mr. Carl Valentin of the SF, and it is addressed to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151356	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151357	What will the Minister do to stop the incarceration of foxes and cats in small cages?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151404	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151405	First of all, thank you for the question. Let me start by stating that I find it totally unacceptable to permanently lock up foxes and cats in small cages and if this happens, it must be stopped immediately. I would also like to emphasise that it is illegal to breed foxes and cats for fur production. Of course, it is allowed to keep and breed cats as pets, and in private you can keep domesticated foxes as family animals. However, in my view, keeping foxes and cats in small cages is not in line with the intentions of the animal welfare law. Under the animal welfare law, animals must be treated with care and the living quarters where animals are kept must be of an appropriate size and must be designed in such a way as to meet the needs of the animal. A great many people are holding cats, and to make it quite clear that cats should not be kept permanently in small cages, I will now issue clear rules for this in a regulation on animal welfare minimum requirements for keeping cats.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151522	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151523	Thank you for that answer, and thank you to the Minister for taking this very seriously, after several of us have called out about it. We would also very much like to be involved in the work of amending that announcement so that we can put an end to this. It all comes down to a case where a group of animal friends, called the Forgotten Danish Foxes, have revealed that a former minkkeeper has imprisoned cats in tiny cages. I have no idea why this person has done it, and in some way I would not want to know either, but at least I know that it is deeply reprehensible. And, of course, this is also a person who has probably imprisoned foxes in the past, despite the fact that this is a direct breach of the Danish ban on fox breeding, and I think that is quite serious. I could talk at length about animals in the Danish industry, which suffer for several reasons completely legal. So there are chickens with broken sternums; there are cows that have their calves removed 12-24 hours after birth; there are pigs with stomach ulcers etc. And we could discuss that for a long time, right? However, in cases such as these where there is a direct breach of the law, I think it is absolutely essential that we agree that, firstly, it should be stopped immediately and, secondly, it should not be repeated. In particular, I would like to ask a few questions about the latter. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister will not also change the legislation, so that if, for example, we do not want to change the legislation. breaking the law and imprisoning a lot of foxes in cages and raising them for fur, despite the fact that it is illegal, must also have deprived the right to have animals in the future, so that we have stopped these people who obviously do not respect the Danish animal welfare law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151709	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151711	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Carl Valentin for being on the field in this case and being clear about this. When we have initially been a little reluctant, it is because what the FDA could see on the farm in question was that there were some cats inside the cages, but not necessarily that they were locked up. That's why you couldn't beat it down as hard as mr. Carl Valentin's gonna go upstairs. With regard to whether repeat cases should have a consequence, there is already part of the new animal welfare law that says that this happens repeatedly, it must have consequences for whether or not to continue keeping animals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151747	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151748	I didn't actually ask about repeat cases. I mentioned that if, for example, we now have to do something about it. imprison a lot of foxes in small cages, even if you should not have permanently taken away the right to have animals. There I think it might be appropriate to change the legislation in this way. I would also like to ask a question, because I feel that the Minister has such a slightly different view on which animals can be put into cages. Why is it okay to putt, for example? rabbits permanently into cages but not hares, which is prohibited in Denmark? And why is it okay to lock up chinchillas in cages in Denmark, for example? Not okay with foxes and cats?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151824	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151826	Yes, until a number of years ago it was also allowed in Denmark to have foxes in cages. You might wonder about that today when you think back. But there are things that develop along the way, where you have different views on it. There is also something connected with a tradition. That's why we have ongoing discussions about these things, and we're going to meet in the circle that made this animal welfare law, just to see if there are places where we want to make improvements. It is as I said before that if there are repeat cases, the hammer will fall. One can also imagine that there should be something in relation to really gross cases, that is, what it should then have with consequences. Let's drill it out together, and let's have a good talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151907	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151908	I will look forward to that very much. Indeed, I think that the animal welfare debate is quite marked by double standards. I mean, when you, for example... must lock up a rabbit, but must not lock up a hare, so the legislation is wrong in one way or another. Fortunately, SF's policy is relatively consistent: we do not believe that any animal should be permanently locked up in cages in Denmark. We should be over that time a long time ago. So I hope that the Social Democrats will also go that way, and I look forward to the discussions we are going to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151940	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112151941	Now I know many families of children who have rabbits in cages with great pleasure. I think that's the way you've been used to having them, and if you were going to have them in a different way, you'd have to get used to it. That is why we need to have a thorough discussion on how we are doing this. What is important is that we look at the whole of animal welfare. It may be sensible to have some animals in cages, at least temporarily, as long as it is not all the time, that is to say permanent. So let us have a good, sensible discussion of these things with a focus on animal welfare, but also with common sense and pragmatism.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152017	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin, and thank you to the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries. The next question is by Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left to the Minister for Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152031	Please read the question out loud.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152032	Thank you, President-in-Office, and the question is: what is the Minister's view of the long duration of proceedings in the SIRI for international workers, and what initiatives will the government take to respect and reduce the processing times?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152046	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152047	Thank you for the question. Yeah, what do I mean? First of all, I am rather sorry about the length of the proceedings, and I am sorry that they have been too long for too long. But I am also pleased to be able to say that we are in the process and have been doing so for some time and that it is going in the right direction. As part of the tripartite agreement of 6 October 2021 on the shortage of labour between the government and the social partners and the National Association of Municipalities, a lump sum of 12 million was allocated. kr. to the board of directors called SIRI, who is the case officer in this area. The amount of this million will help to reduce the processing times specifically in the field of industry. The Board has stated that it is in the process of recruiting case workers to increase the number of employees in the business sector further, and the expectation is that it will have the natural consequence that the case piles can be reduced more quickly without compromising on the quality of the proceedings. In addition, as a minister, I have launched an analysis work to map out whether the cases and the use of resources within the board are optimally organised. The analysis must form the basis for improved productivity, even in the longer term, so that we can reduce the processing times. We're gonna have to, among other things. with input from the Danish Employers' Association and the trade union movement have ensured that the procedure is organised in the most optimal way, and the goal is that it should go faster and stronger than it does now. I will keep the relevant rapporteurs informed about the analysis work and the discussions with the social partners and developments in the case piles and the processing times. I can say that this is an area that I follow very closely and that it is one of my very important priorities. I understand that this is not something that might draw such big headlines, but for many companies this is absolutely, absolutely crucial. We need to get the case piles down. We cannot be served with too long processing times because we are in a situation where there is a need to recruit foreign labour. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152241-2	Thank you, Minister. After all, we are in complete agreement that this is not good enough in the way it is doing at the moment. The reason I ask the question is that, in addition to Danish Industry and Danish Businesses, there are also a large number of regional and local business organisations, among others. Business Aarhus, Business Randers and many others in East Jutland, where I am chosen, which is simply out and not only raise the yellow flags, but also the red flags. Well, this is so alarming and worrying. If we want to create growth in our country, something must be done now. After all, the minister mentions that this one-off allocation of 12 million has been added. kr., and that is in a sense positive enough. The problem is that so far nothing has happened in relation to the duration of the proceedings. As I understand it, in some areas the length of proceedings has almost doubled in relation to the service objective that has actually been decided politically. It is totally incalculable for the individual company, when they are in need of labour now, that they may be able to foresee a waiting period of several months and perhaps even more than that. So it is simply not sustainable. It is certainly not sustainable when we talk about the fact that it is both companies and universities, but indeed the individual employees who simply do not know whether they have been bought or sold. Because when you haven't gotten this permission, you can't get a bank account, and you can't get yourself established in Denmark as an employee, and that doesn't really happen. So the answer is that until the 12 million. kr. We have a challenge, or perhaps even more funds, to begin to translate. Therefore, my follow-up question could be: How about copying some of what we in the Left have recommended, namely that after the biometrics are taken, it should be max. Going 14 days? This means that it should not be the one-month service target that we are already far away from, but 14 days. You will be able to relate to that. Does the Minister agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152442	When we made the tripartite agreement back in October, the amount system, which is one of the really big business arrangements, had a time of 132 days. The most recent figures I have are from December, and the cases were closed on average in 97 days. So it's gone from 132 to 97 days. I still think 97 days is far too long. It is just to emphasise that it is going in the right direction and in the course of 2022 we will be in place. I'm pretty convinced of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152517	But as I understand it, and I have done so by getting the new one in the Danish website, it is true that in some areas, fortunately, we have to say some improvements, but it is still far, far away from the goal. We also have a large number of other areas where it has still doubled in relation to processing time. You can see that if you go in and look at the website's latest numbers. As the Minister began by saying, this is just not good enough, which is why I am asking a specific question, and that is: we are far away from the service target, but why not create a new service target, which is simply 14 days?
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152549	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152550	One of the reasons why I have decided that we should not only plan the piles down, but also analyse each individual case step in the process, is precisely in order to achieve a service objective that is realistic, that companies can navigate and that foreigners can navigate and that we can also deliver on. I do not want to take it in advance, but I dare say that I believe that 14 days is ambitious enough. It is probably also ambitious enough, but I also believe that the vast majority of companies, if only we were to meet the existing service objectives, would be happy, but unfortunately we are not doing so, although we are well on our way in that direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152627	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152628	But it is not just something about saying that we must now be ambitious. The problem is that the most recent figures I have show that there are 59 000 vacant posts in Denmark. It's a number that increases violently almost every day. This means that Dansk Erhverv has analyzed that Danish companies have lost 35 billion. kr. The Danish bnp could be 13.3 billion. kr. bigger if these positions were filled. So it is not just some ambitious objective; it is something that needs to be said.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152702-2	First of all, I have to say that the lack of labour also increases other needs. Do you take enough apprentices? Is it possible for seniors to stay on the labour market? What about disabled people looking for a flex job? There are also some people at home who could be helped into the labour market. Then there is also an entire European labour market which is open to Danish companies, and then we have these occupational schemes, but the latter cannot solve the whole problem. We have record numbers of foreigners in Denmark who are in employment. Last year, we wrote out many, many more residence permits, so thousands of residence permits and many more than we did in 2020. So at the same time as we try to reduce the case piles, applications are also pouring in, so that really is being produced on the board at the moment, and I am satisfied with that too. It just needs to continue in the right direction, because we are not where we should be, yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152748	Thank you. The question has been answered. Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and to Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen. That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220112152757	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday 13 January 2022, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
