ParlaMint-DK_20220505100005	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 29 April 2022, it was decided that the responsibility for all tasks under the Common State Facility management solution is transferred from the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Social Affairs and the Elderly, the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, the Minister of Children and Education, the Minister of the Church, the Minister of Industry, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration, the Minister of Employment, the Minister of Interior and Housing, the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Education and Research to the Minister of Transport. The announcement will appear in the Parliamentary Times. According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 29 April 2022 provides that the responsibility for the tasks of waste management and cleanliness under the joint state facility management solution for the Department of the State Department is transferred from the Prime Minister to the Minister of Transport per year. On 1 May 2022, the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor space and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management relating to the Department of Finance, shall be transferred from the Minister of Finance to the Minister of Transport per year. On 1 May 2022, the Resort Responsibility for all tasks under the Common State Facility management solution, including tasks related to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor space and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management relating to the Department of Foreign Affairs, shall be transferred from the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Minister of Transport per year. 1 May 2022, that the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor space and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management, relating to the Department of Justice and the Court of Justice, shall be transferred from the Minister of Justice to the Minister of Transport per year. 1 May 2022, that the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor space and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management, relating to the Department of Social and Older Affairs and the Social Investment Fund, shall be transferred from the Minister for Social Affairs and the Elderly to the Minister for Transport per year. 1 May 2022, that the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor areas and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management, relating to the Department of Climate, Energy and Supply, Climate Council and National Geological Surveys for Denmark and Greenland, is transferred from the Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply to the Minister of Transport per year. 1 May 2022, that the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor space and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management, which concerns the Department of Health, the Danish Health Authority, the Danish Medicines Agency and the Board for Patient Safety, is transferred from the Ministry of Health to the Minister of Transport per year. On 1 May 2022, the Resort Responsibility for all tasks under the Common State Facility management solution, including tasks related to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor space and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management relating to the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Fisheries shall be transferred from the Minister for Food, Agriculture and Fisheries to the Minister for Transport per year. 1 May 2022, that the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility managementless, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor areas and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management, relating to the Department of Children and Education, the Board for IT and Learning and the Board for Education and Quality, is transferred from the Minister of Children and Education to the Minister of Transport per year. 1 May 2022, that the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor space and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management, relating to the Department of the Church Ministry, is transferred from the Minister of Church to the Minister of Transport per year. 1 May 2022, that the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor space and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management relating to the Department of Business, shall be transferred from the Minister of Business to the Minister of Transport per year. 1 May 2022, that the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor space and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management relating to the FSA, with the exception of internal external security, shall be transferred from the Minister of Business to the Minister of Transport per year. On 1 August 2022, the Resort Responsibility for all tasks under the Common State Facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor space and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management, relating to the Department of Foreign Affairs and Integration, with the exception of meeting meals outside normal working hours and certain maintenance tasks, shall be transferred from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration one to the Minister of Transport per year. 1 May 2022, that the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor space and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management, relating to the Department of Employment, Labour Law, the Conciliation and Employment Market and Recruitment Board, shall be transferred from the Minister of Employment to the Minister of Transport per year. On 1 May 2022, the Resort Responsibility for all tasks under the Common State Facility management solution, including tasks related to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor space and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management, relating to the Department of the Ministry of Interior and Housing, the Benchmarking Unit and the Central Register of Persons, shall be transferred from the Minister of Home and Housing to the Minister of Transport per year. 1 May 2022, that the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor space and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management relating to the Department of the Ministry of the Environment, shall be transferred from the Minister of the Environment to the Minister of Transport per year. 1 May 2022 and that the responsibility for all tasks under the joint state facility management solution, including tasks relating to canteen and meeting catering, cleaning, internal service, internal maintenance, security, outdoor space and waste management, as well as facility management in the form of procurement, procurement, supply and contract management, concerning the Department of Education and Research and the Danish Ministry of Education and Research, is transferred from the Ministry of Education and Research to the Minister of Transport per year. 1 May 2022. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Finance (Nicolai Wammen): Bill no. L 198 (Proposal for a Law amending the Budget Act. Christian Juhl (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 200 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a new health and safety advisory system). Anne Paulin (S), Carsten Kissmeyer (V), Signe Munk (SF), Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV), Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Katarina Ammitzbøll (KF), René Christensen (DF), Peter Seier Christensen (NB), Ole Birk Olesen (LA), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Orla Østerby (UFG): Request no. F 57 (What can the Minister say about the Government's future energy policy initiatives in the light of the energy policy statement?). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100130	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100141	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 58 (S, SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), against voting 45 (V, KF, DF, NB, LA, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100206	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100222	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, ALT, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100244	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100301	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour 103 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, LA, FG, ALT, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against 2 (NB), abstained 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100322	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100338	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. In favour of voting 48 (V, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, ALT, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)), against voting 55 (S, SF, RV and EL), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100401	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100420	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (V), elected by a majority (the other committee)? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100428	The negotiations then concern the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100434	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour 103 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, ALT, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100503	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100521	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, ALT, Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Liselott Blixt (UFG) and Marie Krarup (UFG)) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted and will now be sent to the Minister for Finance. There are no more votes. Now there has been time to leave the Chamber, and that is why I expect calm in the Chamber so that we can proceed with the first readings.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100643	The debate is open. Sir. Henrik Møller, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100706	Thank you. It is the case that in March a majority in the Danish Parliament adopted the new leave model, in which we among other things. introduced earmarked leave, a fairer distribution of the right to maternity benefit and the possibility of transferring maternity benefit to social parents and related family members. Today, we have to deal with the last legislative changes in the context of the European Union's Leaves Directive. With this proposal, we are strengthening employees' employment-related rights, which are about the protection of dismissals for workers who are carers. This protection must also apply to social parents and related family members who, according to the new model of leave, can also take part in maternity leave. Of course, in order to benefit fully from the new model, they must also be covered by increased protection for employees as parents. This means, among other things, that social parents have the same employment rights as regards the right to request flexible work arrangements. In addition, we extend the employment protection of related family members who take leave after maternity leave. The second part of the proposal improves the conditions of leave for parents who have triplets or multiple children at the same birth. On this occasion I should like to thank Hans Andersen from the Left for bringing this into the debate and guaranteeing the possibility of actually doing something. There is no doubt that having children is a gift, but having three or more children at the same time is a huge gift, which requires a great deal of resources, and I therefore welcome the fact that these parents are given 26 weeks extra leave with the right to maternity benefit. The weeks are common to the parents, who have the opportunity to distribute the weeks themselves. Social democracy can, of course, support the initiatives contained in the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100907	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505100919	Thank you for that, and thank you for the comments made by the rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party, who reviewed both the elements of the draft law, but of course also signed that we can actually make a concrete improvement for some families alongside the original agreement. It is not a question of many families, but there are a few families who have triplets or more children at once. So with this bill we can really improve their situation with extra leave weeks in this context. The Left also supports this bill to roll the directive into Danish law. We support this about, just as we supported the agreement we have made on earmarked leave. After all, it provides protection for parents against dismissal by exercising the right to have caring leave. So I will be brief and just say that the Left supports this bill and we very much welcome it and hope that there is broad support for also the element of ensuring that, when families have three small newborns, there is also an opportunity in the form of an extended right to 26 weeks extra leave in this regard. Against this background, the Left will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505101058	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then I think it is Mrs Astrid Carøe who represents the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505101107	Thank you. In the SF, we accepted the EU Leave Directive with open arms, because in addition to securing the equivalent bar, the directive also provides for a generally better balance between working life and private life, and we think that is very good. With today's legislative proposal, we must now ensure that we are in line with the last provisions of the directive, and that includes among other things. better opportunities for caring leave for relatives and more flexible working conditions. I am very pleased about that, which is why I can also begin by saying that we are of course in agreement with the draft law. As far as I am concerned, the bill contains a great many good initiatives to ensure a better balance between working life and private life in Denmark. I am particularly pleased that with this proposal we ensure better rights for close relatives of seriously ill people, because there is no doubt that it is hard work that someone you love is ill, and it is really important that we in Denmark can create the best possible conditions for the relatives in their very difficult situations. Therefore, it is good that we are now ensuring the possibility of more flexible working conditions and caring days, so that relatives do not have to use holiday days or sick people to get hospital visits to go up with working life. This will give both the sick and the next of kin more tranquillity and more presence in a difficult time. In addition to adopting the final parts of the Leaves Directive, this proposal also requires us to debate an extension of the bar for parents who have three or more children at the same birth. To me it seems quite obvious, because parents who have triplets are under quite a different pressure than parents who have a single child. This applies to both breast-feeding, diapers, sleep and the possibility of providing presence and safe well-being for all children who have been born. That is why it makes great sense, of course, for parents of triplets or even quadruples to have access to extra leave. But I also think it is a pity that we cannot at the same time extend the right of leave for parents of twins and premature babies. I am well aware that such an exercise has a much greater scope in economic terms than this one, because many twins are born in Denmark and many prematurely born children, but I nevertheless think that this is a discussion that we should also have forward-looking, because these parents are undoubtedly also under very great pressure. Special parents of premature babies may have to spend almost all their maternity leave at the same time in order to be there for the young new one, for example. is in the hospital. I think that is quite problematic, because premature babies often need to start a little later in the institution than other children, but they risk getting into an institution earlier, if mother and father have had to use the whole bar all together. Therefore, we in the SF will continue to work to ensure that the leave period can also be extended for these families, even if the scope is greater financially, because we think this is best for the children and for the families. Having said that, I am, of course, very pleased that with this proposal we are going one step along the way and giving families who get triplets better opportunities to settle in their new everyday lives, and that is why, as I said, we are of course backing up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505101422	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505101430	Thank you very much, President. This bill has been examined by my fellow rapporteurs who have been on the platform before me. It is basically about implementing the remaining parts of the Leaves Directive, because we have talked about equality between men and women in relation to maternity rights. And then there is the element of an extended leave to parents who have three or more children at the same time, and let me just say two words about it. For that is what we agree with in the Radical Left, but we just think that you skip a link when you recognise how difficult it is to become parents of triplets, quadruples or more, but does it relate to becoming parents of one child? What about those who become parents of two children? I think it's weird to make that jump. That does not mean that we do not support it. I would also like to say, and it may be, that it will be so much christiansborg technical that we have negotiated, we have made an agreement, and I actually think it is a bad idea to avoid an agreement to come up with an element that was not part of the negotiations. Because if we return to the debate on the Leaves Directive, there were also a great many wishes that the Radical Left did not necessarily get through. But we were a number of parties who made an agreement, and we have such respect for the agreement and the great step we made, after all. But all in all, the Radical Left supports this bill, which basically ensures a better balance between family life and family life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505101616	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505101623	The Enhedslisten, like the previous parties, supports this bill. It's important. This is part of a larger agreement, perhaps even reform of our maternity rights, and it is really important. One of the very important things that has happened and which is happening now is that the protection against dismissal that you have, if you are going on leave, is extended to social parents and other related family members, who have recently been granted the right to leave with a previous bill. It is so important that this protection goes with it, of course, and it extends the rights to include some of the families who do not fit into the usual boxes. So we are really, really happy at Enhedslisten that we can once again be allowed to press the green button to secure the rights of those families. Something has also been included in this bill, which was not in the political agreement that other rapporteurs have also touched on. This is the possibility of extending one's leave if one gives birth to three or more children at once, and of course we think that is a really, very good proposal and very important one. It is violent to have one child; I can hardly imagine what it would be like to have three at once, so of course there must be an opportunity for you to have some extra time. What puzzles me so much, and which I can hear also surprise previous rapporteurs, is that the Minister decides to implement this right, this extended leave right for families with triplets or more children, but completely refuses to take the talk openly about what we are doing with, for example. They were prematurely born. The development of premature babies does not correspond to the age they have, and if you only have the maternity leave that you have under the law, then you send your children very, very early into the institution if you have had premature babies. When the minister suggested putting this thing with triplets into the bill, I thought: Very well, so we're gonna talk about the premature ones too, because so many aren't. And there was a pure rejection by the Minister that this could be done at all, and I am surprised. When you have had a long political process of agreement, everyone, as Radicale's rapporteur also says, has cut a heel and chopped a toe along the way, and the Minister knows very well that we have all been wondering why a single proposal is being put in that way, but completely refuse to take up the discussion about the premature children. It's a huge problem for those families. There are not many of them either, but it is really a violent thing to have premature babies and then stand there without having an extended maternity leave. So I would like to urge the Minister to join us because it seems as if there must be an open debate on this meeting soon, so that we can resume this talk and make sure that we do not still have a hollow maternity leave system, because unfortunately we do, even though this bill is patching up some of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505101954	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mr Beazley's report. Niels Flemming Hansen, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505102001	Thank you very much for the floor, President. Yes, here comes the rest of the Leaves Directive, which adopted earmarked maternity for fathers a few months ago rather than allowing the family to take that decision for themselves. But having said that, there are very, very many good things in this proposal: the right to parental leave for five days for a household member who is responsible for essential care, and at the same time extra leave for twin births. We will ask a little about this in committee about twins and whether you should also look at it and at the same time we will ask about the self-employed, who can also have sick children or household members. With these comments, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505102041	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we have come to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505102049	Thank you, President. After all, the Danish People's Party is a family party, and we are always happy when things are adopted that improve the situation of families. As such, it is not because we have so much against what is decided today, but we are concerned about the implications of the directives in the European Union. For no matter how we turn it around, it is an intervention in the Danish labour market model. We would have preferred the European Union not to interfere in this, because I think that we in Denmark are quite good at welfare. We are quite good at dealing with family, which is why it makes no sense for us for the European Union to interfere in this too. I have said this before, and I would like to say it again: I find it worrying as the Danish labour market model is increasingly challenged by the European Union. It is the salami method, it is the slice of slices that are cut off, and in the end there is nothing left, and that is a pity, because it is the model that has ensured this free, flexible labour market with security and job security, unlike many of the southern European and German-speaking countries that are struggling with a very sluggish and inflexible labour market. So it is for reasons of principle that we in the Danish People's Party will vote against this proposal, although there are many good things in the bill. I hope that at some point we will also start talking about subsidiarity and subsidiarity. There is not much subsidiarity left in the EU anymore. We feel it more and more in the Folketing, and I think it is too bad. So the Danish People's Party will vote no at the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505102238	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and since I do not see that several rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is now the Minister. Here you go to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505102254	Thank you very much for that and thank all the rapporteurs for their contributions. As several speakers have said, this draft law puts an end to the great legislative work on implementing the Leaves Directive. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to begin by thanking the parties of the Danish Parliament for the good political discussions that have been going on and, of course, also a special thanks to the parties that are included in the political agreement of 26 October last year, and to the Danish Employers' Association and the main organisation of the trade union movement, on which both the agreement and the two legislative proposals are based. With the bill, we are implementing the provisions of the Leaves Directive, among other things. the protection of employees who are carers. This is done by changing the law on the right of employees to leave work for special family reasons. For employees who are parents, only minor adjustments are made to the rules already laid down in the Equal Treatment Act. At the same time, we take the consequence of the fact that, by L 104, we have granted new rights to social parents and related family members under the maternity law. That is why the draft law also provides greater protection for employees of those groups. This initiative is outside the framework of understanding laid down by the DA and FH for the implementation of the Leave Directive. However, the government has found it most appropriate to provide social parents with the same protection as parents when taking leave together. Because I do not believe that we can recognise social parents in relation to the law on maternity leave if we do not at the same time provide them with the same employment protection as parents when they make use of their opportunity to take leave. In the same way, with some exceptions, we grant the same protection to the related family members who take part in the leave of a solo parent. The bill improves the conditions of leave for parents who have three or more children at the same birth. In such situations, the parents receive 26 weeks' extra leave with entitlement to maternity benefit. The extra leave means that there is a longer period during which parents can be at home with the children. The law on parental allowances is a common right which parents can share. This change does not follow from our agreement of 26 October last year. But there has been a great political desire to take care of parents who have three or more children. That is why the government has found the necessary and possible funding for the proposal bypassing the political agreement. Finally, the draft law makes changes to the Act on Active Social Policy as a result of the amendments to the maternity law on the equal treatment of post-natal leave. In these words, I look forward to the goodwill of the Danish Parliament and, of course, as always, make myself available for consideration by the forthcoming committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505102550	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505102606	The debate is open. First, it's sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505102621	Thank you for the floor. With the bill here we propose to ensure that minors do not lose their residence permit in Denmark when they are sent on a re-educational journey. As the rules are set out today, the residence permit will lapse after 3 months when a young minor has been sent on a re-educational journey. In addition, the draft law proposes to introduce an extended obligation for municipalities to pass on information to the Foreigners' Board and SIRI respectively if they become aware that a young person is either at risk of being or has already been sent off on a re-educational journey. It is also proposed in the bill that these agencies, i.e. the Foreigners' Board and SIRI, should be able to offer a conversation with a minor foreigner without the parents being present or being aware of it. In the Social Democratic Party we are concerned that we are doing everything we can to prevent young people living in Denmark from being subjected to negative social control and being sent off on a reeducational journey because they have become too Danish. The draft law also proposes to introduce special access to permanent residence for persons who have been sent on a re-educational journey and for this reason have not been able to obtain permanent residence under the lax rules which other young foreigners between the ages of 18 and 19 have been able to do. Finally, it is proposed to amend the law on foreigners so that it is in line with a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights which obliges us to lower the three-year rule of family reunification to a two-year rule. After all, we still have the opportunity to temporarily increase the period from 2 to 3 years in future large flows of refugees and migrants. With those words, I can announce that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505102801	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505102833	Thank you. I was very pleased last year when we discussed the motion for a resolution that residence permits should not automatically lapse for minors who have been sent on a re-educational journey. That is why, of course, I am also very happy and grateful that the government listened and now wants to change the law. For me and others. has long been out to trouble this gap in the legislation, which causes people who are already having a really hard time to be let down. Who doesn't remember Samia's story of her reeducational journey, which came out at Information Publishers a year and a half ago? It was about a young hopeful girl who just wanted to be like her Danish peers, but it was obviously not well-known, for she was torn away from her friends, school and siblings and sent to Pakistan, where she ended up for 7 years 7 years of daily humiliation and violence. During that time she was to act as a housekeeper for the family down there, and unlike Cinderella, she did not end up meeting the prince on the white horse and living happily ever after. No, she was forced to marry, and when she finally returned to Denmark after 7 years, she had to apply for asylum because her residence permit had lapsed. Young people returning from reeducation trips should not be subject to double penalties by losing their Danish residence permit. I don't want them to pay for the actions of their parents. It is therefore only good that their residence permit in Denmark should continue to apply. But that is only one part of the bill, because of course young people should not be sent on a reeducational journey at all. They have the right to choose their own life and to have their own body. Just as we must do away with all negative social controls, we must also prevent young people from being sent on a return journey at all. That is why the SF and I welcome the fact that the bill contains an extended obligation for municipalities to disclose information that can help the authorities identify possible re-educational trips or other stays of negative importance. Along with the proposed interview between young underage foreigners and the immigration authorities, which include: Thus, the authorities now have tools which I hope and believe will help to identify any forthcoming reeducational journeys, and hopefully this will help to catch and save young people before it is too late. Against this background, I am very pleased to deal with this bill, which we in the SF support 100%. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505103123	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505103128	This time it is something different from what the rapporteur is used to me asking about. As the rapporteur himself says, there are two very different parts of this bill. There are the rules on family reunification, and then there is the matter of reeducational journeys, and I think it is strange to take two things that have nothing to do with each other and confuse them. Will the rapporteur's party support the fact that we share the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505103155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505103156	I cannot take a stand on this, but we can of course deal with that in the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505103206	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then we move on to Mrs Kathrine Oldag, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505103223	Thank you, President. It is a pleasure for us today to deal with this bill, which, of course, sets the rules for this group of the most vulnerable children who are sent out on re-educational trips and who have no basis for residence in Denmark other than that which is linked up with their parents; they were punished under the old rules by having their residence permit withdrawn. For the Radical Left, it is a distortion of proportion which punishes those who have already been punished or are already the weakest. So that we are now getting the rules straightened out so that the municipality, in cases involving children who are being re-educated, keeps an eye on whether this is what is going on and has an obligation to report, I think is an excellent way to combat this injustice, which is social control and re-educational journeys. The second element is, of course, that children are no longer deprived of their residence permit. That is only right and proper. That children can also be granted permanent residence permits at their 18th birthday, on the basis that they have previously been deprived, is of course also an excellent idea. So, all in all, this draft law corrects some strict rules that have hit quite wrong and that have actually not met the purpose for which the rules were introduced, and that is why the Radical Left, of course, strongly supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505103359	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which means that we will move on to the next rapporteur, Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505103417	Thank you. Unfortunately, I would say all too rarely that a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslist is adopted and then becomes a bill from the government, but when last year we tabled B 275 to amend the rules of the Aliens Act, we were fortunately able to see that only the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance were opposed. The proposal was put forward at the time because we were able to see that one of many, I would say, inappropriateities in the Aliens Act were to a large extent punishing minors if they were subjected to negative social control in the form of being sent on re-educational journeys. I have to say that I am really pleased that we are standing here today dealing with the legislative proposal that comes from the debate we had at the time, but at the very least in the debate we often have in here, on how to eliminate negative social control. After all, over the last few years we have been able to do more about the problem of negative social control, because unfortunately there are too many cases in Denmark where young people are subjected to negative social control. We have been given the paragraph against psychological violence, where negative social control has been moved from the comments into the legislative text. We have been allocated money on the Finance Act for the further training of teachers and educators. We have a crisis centre for young people with a dual minority background, which is unfortunately subject to additional negative social control. I am very sorry that this is a phenomenon that exists in Denmark, and that is precisely why I am glad that we can work together to do something about it. For many years we have had such a tight policy on foreigners that it has actually put the people who have wanted to help. Now we are relaxing so little on the rules so that we can actually help the people involved, and I think that in its eagerness to tighten the rules on residence permits we must be careful not to stare so much blindly that we are actually going to put the people who are actually trying to help, and that is precisely why we are also in the Enhedsliste glad that both the Left and the Conservatives supported our motion for a resolution a year ago. Then I'd like to do something I don't do very often. Indeed, I would like to commend the government today, and perhaps it is because we have a new minister, perhaps because it is finally the case that the government listens just a little bit both to the Enhedslisten, but also to the Human Rights Court, which is also reflected in this bill, because the second half of the bill is precisely about how we can get better family reunification rules. Now it will be the case in the future with this bill that you can apply for family reunification if you are a fugitive according to section 7 paragraph 7. 3, after 2 years instead of 3 years. I hope that this will mean that in future we can also put the overall differences behind us and talk a little about the substance, namely about the people we want to help, especially those who are subjected to negative social control, but also those who are actually entitled to family reunification to Denmark, which I also believe will provide better conditions for integration. After all, we should not make legislation in Denmark as a country that is contrary to the Convention on Human Rights, and now we should also be saying that, fortunately, we have been condemned to respect the right to family life, so we must of course also change the rules. We in the Enhedslisten strongly support this bill and hope it is a sign of a whole new line from a whole new minister. Enhedslisten can warmly support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505103823	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505103826	Thank you. The rapporteur says that it is not every day that motions for resolutions from the Enhedslist are tabled as legislative proposals. It is also not every day that is actually the support of the Left and Conservatives. So congratulations. I do not think we should over-interpret it as if it were a new, close cooperation between Conservatives and the Enhedslisten on immigration policy, but I am glad that we can agree on this. What I want to ask is that, as the rapporteur himself says, and I also asked the rapporteur from the SF before • are two very different things that lie in this draft law. The Enhedslisten tends to support the sharing of legislative proposals if there is a desire to do so. Will the Enhedslist support it in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505103903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505103905	Well, sir. Marcus Knuth can take it easy. I think that later today, when we deal with some proposals in the area of citizenship, we will find that there has not been a new close cooperation between the Enhedslisten and the Conservative People's Party in the field of foreigners in this way. But thank you very much for your support. Yes, Enhedslisten believes that if there are parties that want legislative proposals to be split up, then you have to do it. By the way, we also expect other parties to support us when we find ourselves in a situation where we need to split up legislation. I think it is the most democratic, especially when you consider that we often get from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration these pile of legislative proposals, where you as a party may be able to support two or three of the initiatives, but not the rest. So we can easily support in committee that the bill is split up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505103949	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. This means that we have to move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505104008	Thank you, President. I would say, like the previous rapporteurs, that one part of this bill is precisely that it should not be the children who are being punished for being sent on a re-education journey. Of course, we wholeheartedly support it. As I said, a great deal of praise to the Enhedslisten for putting this problem on the agenda in the form of a motion for a resolution, which is now supported by a broad majority in the Folketing. That part must of course also be seen as part of a number of other initiatives by the Folketing and the government in the fight against young people being sent on a reeducational journey. Then there's the second part, the three-year rule in relation to family reunification. It was something that we introduced in the last period of the Blue Government. It was one of our important tools in managing the asylum influx that was when we introduced it. There we also said that we were well aware that there was a procedural risk, I think the wording was, so we were aware that we went to the edge of the conventions. But we felt it was necessary to get to grips with the influx that came. Now there has been a judgment that says it was obviously going too far. I know that the Danish People's Party has focused on whether the government is not quite fast enough to say: Fine, then we just go from 3 to 2. Could you do it another way? Have you looked into this thoroughly enough? I do not think that it has been studied thoroughly enough if this is the only proposal from the government. If it is the present which is apparently unconstitutional, or what the government is presenting here, then we have to lean in the direction proposed by the government. I just think it is a pity that the government has not initiated a separate, independent legal work to see whether the border should be at 2 years or 2 1/2 years. What can be done to get as close to the convention as possible, given that it is one of the tools we used to control the influx? So with those words, I am certainly happy and hope that there is support for sharing the bill here. At any rate, we want this so that we can get a little deeper into the first part of the reeducational journey, which we wholeheartedly support not to go beyond the children, but also the part to change one of our important asylum restrictions and perhaps to get a little deeper in relation to whether the government could do more to see if it is exactly where the dividing line here is being put, which is the right cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505104241	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks, which means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505104255	Thank you. So, the Danish People's Party cannot support this proposal. And I have to say that I was absolutely sure that we were on the right track when Mrs Rosa Lund made her speech here in the platform. It is therefore a proposal which involves more relaxation of the law on foreigners, and we do not need that. The government will change the rules so that children sent to their country of origin do not lose their residence permit in Denmark after 3 months as the situation is today and as is the case for other foreigners after 6 or 12 months. On the contrary, the government will ensure that the residence permit does not disappear at all for a foreigner who has been on a re-education journey in his country of origin. So it will be free of charge for parents to send their child to reeducation in their home country. You can count on the child to return to Denmark once he has been sufficiently bottled up with sufficient amounts of culture and religion in his country of origin. The government will also allow foreigners to return to Denmark, even if it only happens once they have grown up, just as the government will make it easier for these children to obtain permanent residence permits. We cannot support these relaxations. On the contrary, the consequence of sending your children on a return journey in the country of origin should be that the parents themselves lose their residence permit in Denmark. It must be the case that foreigners living in Denmark have to choose between following Danish customs or going home. But the relaxations are not over. It will also facilitate access to family reunification for persons with temporary protection status in Denmark on the basis of a case by the European Court of Human Rights in which a Syrian man was successful in the fact that the refusal of the Foreigners' Authority to grant him family reunification with his wife was a denial of Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights. So also in this bill we see how the Court of Human Rights is used as an argument for relaxing Danish alien law. There is a positive element which has just crept into the draft law, namely to tighten up the notification obligations of the municipalities in the case of re-education journeys in the country of origin and the possibility of having talks with children at risk of being sent on re-education journeys without parents' knowledge. We will be able to support these two initiatives. But these proposals are a drop in the ocean in this proposal, which is likely to lead to more children being sent on reeducation trips because it will be free of charge. In fact, we are of the opinion that the law on foreigners must be tightened and that is why we cannot support the proposal. On the other hand, I think it would be good if, as Mr. Marcus Knuth says, divides the proposal and it would be nice if we could get the Minister's position on it, because we can support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505104549	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505104604	Thank you for the floor. And thank you for the fact that I just got caught on the wrong leg. It was a great haste with which the previous proposal was dealt with, and then I came in the back of the queue. It won't happen again, I hope. Back in 2020, I was brought to the attention of the problems of the place of residence of young people when they are sent on a reeducational journey against their will. It was after I read the book " written under the pseudonym " which is called "Reeducation. " It is about a young woman who loses her residence permit in Denmark after she has been subjected to severe social control and forced to her parents' home country Pakistan, where she is locked up for a very long time. I later met the author of the unhappy story; she lost her basis for life in Denmark after she managed to escape from Pakistan. I would very much like to thank the government for finally putting forward this bill. We have been pushing for a long time to change the rules on residence for reeducational journeys. I can also say that among the things I have been involved in implementing is my small share in the fact that there is now a proposal of this nature on the way, one of the things I am actually most proud of in my work here in the Danish Parliament. Basically, in the Left, we see with great seriousness that children and young people in Denmark are subjected to social control of their parents and sent to their parents' home countries to renounce Danish standards and values. The current rules are awkward. They were thought for the best of purpose, but they did not work, and they did not seem to deter parents from sending their children. That is why, of course, we need to change the rules. In 2019 it was made a criminal offence to send your children on a reeducational journey. The penalty framework is up to 4 years in prison and the possibility of expulsion. The fact that in 2019 it was made a criminal offence to send your children on reeducation trips should only have a deterrent effect; it should not affect the children's place of residence in Denmark. In addition, the draft law lays down inter alia: up to further steps to ensure that more cases of social control are dealt with in time and that more cases are dealt with as cases dealing with precisely reeducational journeys. We in the Left are very, very positive about that. That is why the Left supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505104847	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is now the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505104903	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteurs for the debate on the legislative proposal and for the broad support that exists across the parties. In the last parliamentary assembly, the Danish Parliament discussed the Government's bill for stronger action against social control. It was mostly about social control in connection with marriages and forced retention in marriages and similar relationships. During the course of the discussion, the issue of reeducational trips was also discussed, and there have been cases of children who have been sent for reeducation and who have lost their residence permit because they have been too long away from Denmark, and that is not fair. That is why the government, together with almost all the other parties, supports motion for a resolution No. B 275 from the Enhedslisten that a residence permit should not automatically lapse when minors have been sent on a re-educational journey. It is not the children who have been caught in the wrong world view, and it is not they who are to be hit. We must ensure that they are helped, because after all, they are also the victims of these cases. With this bill, the government now comes with its response to the debate and the demand for changed rules. We turn the rules upside down; we propose a new starting point for the withdrawal of residence permits in relation to foreigners who, as minors, have been sent on a return journey or another stay abroad of negative importance to the person. This means that as a clear starting point the residence permit will not lapse when it is considered in the individual case that a foreigner has been sent on a re-educational journey as a minor, and it will be irrelevant that the alien may be. has become of age during the stay. The proposal is intended to provide an assurance to the young person that, on his return to Denmark, he should not risk uncertainty about his or her place of residence and experience having to pay for the actions of his or her parents. At the same time, the so-called three-month rule is proposed to be repealed so that a residence permit no longer lapses three months after a foreigner has been sent on a re-educational journey. In addition to the scheme, the government also proposes that the municipalities should provide information to the Foreigners' Board and the SIRI to a greater extent than today, so that the governing bodies at an earlier stage have the relevant information to identify cases of re-educational travel. It is also proposed that the governing bodies may hold a conversation with a minor foreigner without informing and participating the custody holder. It is not an interrogation but an opportunity for the young person to be free to tell about the risk of being sent and the circumstances in which the young person has already been sent. Such an interview may have an impact on information in a case where, on the new basis, a residence permit is not to be considered to have lapsed or in a case where there may be grounds for refusing to issue special travel documents. In addition, the government is proposing a completely new special access to permanent residence permits for foreigners who have been repatriated and who, therefore, have not been able, like other young foreigners, to meet the requirements for permanent residence permits. The special rules apply only to this group and only for two years after the decision that the residence permit has not lapsed, or in some cases no later than two years after the return to Denmark. It will then be possible to obtain permanent residence permits in accordance with the general rules. In addition to the changes to the rules on the withdrawal of re-educational travel, the Government proposes with this bill a change to the rules on family reunification for refugees with temporary protection status. The proposal comes as a result of the so-called M.A. judgment given by the European Court of Human Rights. The proposal is that the three-year waiting period, which applies as a starting point to the family reunification of refugees with temporary protection status, should be changed to a two-year rule in the law. Since the autumn, the Foreigners' Board has administered in accordance with the judgment, so that family reunification is already permitted after two years using another provision of the Aliens' Act. The aim of the proposal is therefore to bring the principle of the law on foreigners into line with reality. Our assessment of the M.A. judgment is that, within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights, a 3-year waiting period can be introduced if Denmark again experiences a mass influx of asylum seekers into Denmark. The Government therefore proposes that the waiting period could be set at three years if such a situation arises again. Finally, I can say that I look forward to further consideration and, of course, I will endeavour to answer all the questions that come up.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505105317	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505105319	Thank you, Minister. I think we agree that children who are sent on a reeducational journey by force should not, of course, be punished because they themselves are victims. However, is the Minister and it is perhaps a small concern that I have in relation to that part of the legislation • sure that the law here is good enough to also catch those who maybe in recent youth years, at 17-year-old or perhaps even 18-year-old, voluntarily take on, for example. Koran school in a country such as Pakistan or Saudi Arabia, so that this is a law that protects the victims, but does not at the same time provide protection for those who voluntarily travel to be part of an ideology that we do not support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505105406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505105408	It is clear that when you make such a law here, you cannot stop thinking about whether or not somebody is using it in one way or another. It may be the individual as well, but in principle it may also be the parents who try to get better, more favourable conditions in relation to the residence permit. Therefore, it is not the case that you automatically get better conditions for residence permits if you have been on a re-education journey. It will also be based on an assessment in individual cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505105437	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505105438	Thank you. I wish we had time for more questions, and of course we also have time for this in committee. But I'm gonna jump to the other part. As the Minister probably noted, I was critical of the fact that this is the only way to go automatically from 3 years to 2 years in relation to family reunification without testing the boundaries a little further. Now I know that the Minister is new in this area, but we have been several parties that have thought that the government has been quite quick to cut down on one of the important asylum restrictions that we had. Does the Minister think that enough has been done to ensure exactly where the limit should go? Have we not gone a little too fast?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505105514	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505105516	What I have been told by my predecessor is that he has done what he could to press people on their stomachs and test whether there was a chance to stretch it any longer. Because it is not with our good will that we reduce the number of years. We introduced ourselves under the SR government at the time of 1 year, and then it was extended to 3 years. It was a good arrangement. Now we've got a verdict that makes it go down to two years. As I have had it presented, it has been tested by, and we have no interest in making it shorter than most necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505105550	Thank you. There are no more questions for the Minister. I understand that there is a desire for us to take a different round, and the Rules of Procedure also provide for that. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505105610	Thank you. I'll start by apologizing. I had called for consultation myself and had to take it, and I had already shortened it to only 45 minutes. That's the price when we're a small party. I hope it gets better next time. So I'm sorry. I am not going to, and I would like to make that clear again, form a government which relaxes foreign policy. We have made this very clear. That is what Mrs Mette Frederiksen said before the 2019 elections. Nevertheless, the government of Mette Frederiksen has on several occasions relaxed the policy of foreigners in recent years: higher benefits for unemployed foreigners and immigrants, easier access to unemployment benefits for foreigners, the abolition of participation payments for foreigners' Danish education. And now there is a proposal that refugees should be more easily able to have family reunification, and that there are no longer consequences when children and young people, typically from Muslim families, are sent to re-education in the parents' home country. It is one foreign policy relaxation after another, and politicians cannot be supposed to be able to go to the elections and promise one in order to do something else afterwards. When they do, they must be absolutely sure that we in the New Citizens will come after them and display their hypocrisy. We will therefore again, as we have promised the Danes, try to get the other four parties in the bourgeois opposition to block the relaxation of foreign policy by activating section 42 of the Constitution and having the bill sent to a referendum. The voice of the Danes should be heard when the Social Democracy runs from its promise to the electorate to stand guard over strict foreign policy. Foreign policy must not be relaxed. It has to be solved from scratch. The Danes must have their freedom and security back. One of the numerous problems that follow in the wake of an openly failed immigration and integration policy is the phenomenon of re-educational journeys: children and young people, typically from Muslim families, who are sent to re-education in the parents' home country because they have become too Danish, or in order to prepare them for an organized Islamic marriage. Imagine that a majority in the Folketing accepts that we let people into our country and leave them among us, that is, people who disgust our standards and values so much that the phenomenon of reeducation has become part of our everyday lives. It's almost unbearable. Through the media we can follow the harsh tales of children and young people who, against their will, are sent to stay far away from family, school and friends to get an Islamic upbringing. And those stories touch us all. But the solution is not to take away the opportunity that exists to punish for this today without replacing anything else. Now I know that there has been a debate before I came, and I also know that because this is a different round, I have less time than I had prepared my rapporteur's speech to last. But it will simply have to be the case that if we relax in order to meet the young people who are getting into trouble today, we will have to put something else in place. And to introduce better opportunities for family reunification, we are very opposed to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505105933	Thank you. It is true that there is a difference from 5 to 3 minutes between the first and the second round. I should like to know if anyone else wishes to speak. As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505105954	The debate is open. Sir. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110011	Thank you, President. With the bill here, the government is proposing to implement a tripartite agreement from February this year to continue the Igu regime and extend it until 1 January 2024. At the same time, the bill proposes that those Afghans who reside under the special law for persons who have helped the Danish authorities in Afghanistan be included in the Igu scheme. In the Social Democratic Party we see the igu as an important tool to help more foreigners enter the Danish labour market. The Igu contributes to an important integration task, and it acts as a stepping stone to the labour market. The Igu makes it possible for foreigners who find it difficult to find a foothold in the Danish labour market to be trained so that they can match the demands that the Danish labour market demands of workers today. It is of course important that we stick to this, because there are too many people who originate in non-western countries who are outside our working community. Employment rates are too low and this needs to be corrected. Even if things are moving forward, things are moving too slowly. The draft law also proposes that the State should continue to pay a bonus of up to DKK 40,000. to private employers employing pupils enrolled in an Igu programme during the period from 1 August 2019 to 31 December 2023. With those words, I can announce that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110135	There is a brief comment. Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110139	Thank you. Given that Danish companies are screaming for labour and that there are incredibly many of the people who have come here as migrants especially from Muslim countries and who are outside the labour market, does the Social Democrats really believe that it is reasonable that Danish taxpayers should pay companies a bonus to take these people to work? I could understand it if there was high unemployment. Then I could understand that it was said: we have to do something extraordinary. But we are in a situation where companies are screaming for labour, and then the Danes must, at a time when the Danes really have to tighten their belts, because prices are rising energy prices, food prices are rising, etc. It just doesn't make sense. But perhaps it does for the Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110234	We are extremely concerned that very tough demands are being made on those who are resident in Denmark that one should contribute, one must be part of the community, one must do one's duty, one must do everything possible to support oneself. But we also have to recognise that there are groups which are very far away from the Danish labour market today because they do not have the qualifications to take a job. Then it is true that companies are looking for labour. But if the very small available labour that is available is not really available, because people do not have the right skills to challenge the jobs that companies find difficult to fill, then we also have to make an effort to train them and give them competences so that they can actually
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110313	Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110315	Well, that's crazy. Listen to this: Some of those who lack labour are among other things. Our hotels. We know that many of the people outside the labour market from the MENAPT countries are women. There are a lot of women who go home to everyday life and look after children and look after houses and look after homes. Of course they can come out and clean, make a bed, do a job that you can, when you are Filipino or Thai, or whatever else you are, the many people who are in our hotels already and who work a certain body part out of your pants. My question is this: is it reasonable that Danish taxpayers should pay a bonus to employers to take employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110349	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110351	I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund should be very careful to talk down to all those who work in the hotel and restaurant trade and say that these are jobs that you can only hold without competence. Actually, I don't think that's fair. It certainly also requires skills to be in a hotel or in a restaurant. That is why there are also some of those who are now outside the labour market, whom we need to upgrade, also to be able to challenge those jobs, such as those in the United Kingdom. is with cleaning in hotels. That is why we need both to extend the Igu scheme, but also to continue with this bonus scheme, so that we ensure that companies also have incentives to contribute to upgrading.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110424	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we are moving forward in the right order now to Mr. Mads Birded, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110437	Thank you for the floor. I am pleased that we are going to vote on an extension of the Igu regime, which the former Left Government helped to establish following tripartite agreements between the government and the social partners on better integration into the labour market back in 2016. In the Left, we believe that getting a job and being self-supporting is a key part of living in Denmark. This is whether you are a refugee with temporary status in the country or whether you are staying in the country permanently. Everyone must work and contribute to Danish society if they can. Furthermore, it is absolutely crucial for integration that you as a refugee or a family in Denmark come to a Danish workplace, get Danish colleagues, learn the Danish language and participate in the society that we are all part of. This is the right way to take Denmark into account. That is why we support the proposal to extend the Igu scheme, which helps to set the framework for a successful integration process in Denmark and which is an important stepping stone into the Danish labour market for refugees and family members of refugees who have not been given sufficient qualifications to meet the demands of the Danish labour market. Last time we continued the Igu scheme in 2019, almost 2,000 Igu programmes were registered. Today, almost 3,000 agreements have been registered since 2019. There has been a slight increase in the number of agreements on igu processes, among others. Because of corona. That is why we are not yet in line with the scheme. We must continue to strengthen our efforts towards this group in the coming period. It is proposed that the scheme should also include persons with temporary protection status in Denmark because they assisted the Danish authorities in Afghanistan. This group is not yet part of the scheme, and they must of course be. That is why the Left also supports this part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110627	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no desire for short remarks, and that means that we move on to Mrs Halime Oguz, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110642	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. Today we have to deal with a legislative amendment to the basic integration training scheme, which is to be continued. The agreement first saw the light of day in 2016 as a trial scheme and as a central part of the tripartite agreement on labour market integration. For the SF, it is important that the social partners take responsibility for integration, as we achieve good results in this way and have integration that works. That is why we continue to support the scheme, which increases the opportunities for refugees and family members for jobs, and which has proved to strengthen the professional, linguistic and social competences of the target group, as well as the knowledge of the Danish labour market. Against this background, I can inform you that the SF supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110735	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110747	Thank you very much, President. Integration basic education is a very good and important tool in increasing employment among refugees and family members, and thus it is also a very good tool for integrating people into Denmark. The integration basic training contains both a business-oriented part that focuses on language, and a focus on upskilling. So we in the Radical Left are really happy to be able to continue with this scheme, and we are also pleased to be able to extend it so that the people who were evacuated from Afghanistan and who are staying after a special law are also included. As it is today, it includes refugees and family members aged between 18 and 40 who have been in the country under 10 years of age. In the Radical Left we would really like to expand the target group further, because our experience is that there are also people who have been here for more than 10 years, and there are people outside this defined age group who could also benefit from an integration basic education which is a very good way of getting their feet on the labour market. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110858	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505110912	Thank you very much. I was hoping for a little bit more ambition when we were going to review the igu. I think it is good that we are extending, and I also think it is good that we are involving the Afghans and Ukrainians, but we should have an Igu who had a more direct entry into the labour market in the form of some qualifications, some kind of certificates or evidence of participation or/and a competence that could lead to a further entry into an education system. That is why I still think there are some shortcomings, and the Igu can easily become a dead end for someone, and I think we should do something about that. In addition, I believe that we also need a vigu-- adult integration training course, and I think we should start on that. So when it comes to the Minister's turn, I might as well now reveal that I am going to ask if there are plans to improve that kind of thing at that time. I will curiously await what the Minister will reply to at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505111012	There are no brief comments, and that is why we go further in the rapporteur's report. Marcus Knuth, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505111026	Thank you, President. It was we who introduced basic integration training 5, 6, 7 years ago, and it has been a relatively great success in the very bureaucratic and troublesome system we had in bringing refugees into the labour market. With this scheme there is much less time, much less bureaucracy when you get into the municipality, because you have to enter the labour market, you don't have to go through long, heavy Danish courses, where you just sit and are on social benefits and get money into the bank account without even contributing. We think it makes very good sense to extend it, and we are pleased that it is one of the good initiatives we had in the whole area of integration that the Social Democrats are taking forward. Then there is the part about the Afghan evacuees that has come here under a special scheme, a special law, and therefore the vast majority of them, at least last time I checked, do not have asylum status and are therefore not included by the Igu, but it makes sense that they can also make use of the Igu. Then Pernille Vermund had a very good consideration, for we introduced a job bonus, so that Danish companies can take refugees into their jobs as an extra carrot, but it was introduced at a time when there was no massive demand for labour that exists today. So I think that is a very good point and thank Mrs Pernille Vermund for that. I think we should ask the Minister whether it is actually still timely care of the Danes' money, or whether it is the case that experience shows that Danish companies will take people in anyway. Because if that is the case, there is no reason to make use of a bonus as well. So I think that is clearly a question we should pursue. But overall, we support the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505111220	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, which means that we move on to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505111234	Thank you. What we heard here at the end, I think, was interesting, and I am also curious to hear the Minister's reply to that. Perhaps, in reality, a bonus scheme should be introduced for many older people who would like to enter the labour market, because unfortunately there are still problems, although that should be quite natural. Well, that's another talk. We would also like to hear the Minister's reply to the last question from Mrs Pernille Vermund, which was repeated by Mr Vermund. Marcus Knuth. It is not at all because we want to support the proposal, but that is why it is interesting to hear how far we can go. The Danish People's Party has been opposed to the scheme since the basic integration programme was launched in 2016, and there are several reasons for this. One of the main reasons is that foreigners who have completed basic integration training are entitled to unemployment benefit one month after the completion of the training, which, as you know, lasts two years with a 23-week school part. The integration basic training is a shortcut to obtaining the right to benefit. When initial integration training was introduced, the then government and the social partners felt that the code had now been broken on how to get refugees and family reunification into the labour market. I think it has to be said that this is not the case. In 2018, when the first ones had come through the Igu scheme, 45% was. of the 21-64-year-old refugees and families with at least 3 years of residence in Denmark on the labour market. In the fourth quarter of 2021 that figure had fallen to 41 per cent, so igu has not been a success story. At the end of 2021, 2,742 agreements were registered for an Igu process. Before this reading I checked the current figures and by the end of March 2022 27 more agreements had been reached, so it is not going very fast. It may be a little boring with all these numbers, but actually quite useful in this debate. Now we want to continue training so that it continues until 31 December 2023 and include those covered by the special law on Afghan interpreters, and we cannot support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505111505	Thank you to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no brief comments, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505111518	Thank you. We in Denmark have an incredibly spacious labour market, a labour market on which it is very easy to integrate. How can I say that? I can do that by looking out at the many foreigners from many good countries who come here, working, both people who are experts in their trade, and also people who come with little more than a will and a will and a desire to get up in the morning, support themselves and make a real effort. People come here from Eastern Europe, from southern Europe, from South-East Asia, from remote regions, which integrate into our labour market and which contribute positively in all sectors. Unfortunately, people also come here from Muslim countries, the so-called MENAPT countries. A great many of them have come either as asylum seekers who have been granted asylum or as family members, and they bouncing heavily into unemployment statistics. They've been doing that since the first day, and they're still doing it away. They do so in Denmark, and they do so in other Western countries. Everything else has been tried differently to integrate them into the Danish labour market, but it has not succeeded. When I say 'them', it is of course important to say that there are also people from the MENAPT countries who are in our labour market and there are, of course, good, well-integrated people. But far too many live at home on passive support, especially among women. You've come up with this latest jump, and maybe it's not that new, i.e. the Igu scheme and the Igu and also a bonus scheme for Danish companies to take these people into the labour market. There is little evidence to suggest that it has been a great success, at least not when you look at unemployment statistics in the annual horror publication on immigrants in Denmark. So why are we spending the money on this? Why don't we just say once and for all: if you are a foreign national and you live in Denmark, you have to support yourself, and if you can't, you have to go out? We could see, when a 225-hour rule was introduced, that it was adapted. All of a sudden, this group, which was not on the labour market, worked as much as it needed to get a benefit next door. So I wonder if they too will adapt if you say once and for all: Listen, friends, you have 2 years to create a job, get you a job or plan your departure. I am quite sure that by far, the vast majority would become self-supporting relatively quickly, because it is not the case that you can live on passive support in the countries from which they come. It's not like that. By the way, as I said at the beginning, we have a situation today where we have a labour market that is crying out for labour, and in that light and in view of the fact that, whatever we do to try to integrate people into our labour market who do not want to, it has not worked, and for me and New Citizens it is quite crazy that we have to use Danish tax dollars to pay bonuses to Danish companies that have to accept labour. If we really wanted to, we could put these people at the door and say, "Now it's not a crown for you if you don't get out of the guard." If you can, and that is where you come from, and if you are a foreign national, then you have a special obligation to make an extra effort if you want to stay here. That must be the way forward. Of course, new citizens cannot support the proposal to spend even more money trying to integrate some people into our labour market, which obviously has neither the will nor the ability to get up in the morning and do their jobs. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505111922	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, it is now the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505111936	Thank you to the rapporteurs for receiving the bill. I am pleased that there is support and a majority for continuing the Igu scheme. It was created in 2016 as an experimental scheme and was based on the tripartite agreement between the government and the social partners on integration into the labour market. At the time, as today, it was intended to ensure the possibility of work and qualifications for refugees and families whose qualifications and productivity were not yet in line with the requirements of the Danish labour market. Foreigners in igu-progress get regular employment, but on a student's salary. They come out at a workplace, meet Danes, learn more Danish, get a better knowledge of Danish norms and values, at the same time include real rights to education, for example. within the amu system during the process. The draft law that we are considering first today will give effect to the tripartite agreement between the government and the social partners from February this year, and the draft law will continue the Igu scheme for a further 11⁄2 years until 1 January 2024. The bill will also allow for Igu courses for foreigners who have a residence permit under the law on temporary residence permits for persons who have assisted Danish authorities in Afghanistan, etc. and who, moreover, fall within the target group. Finally, the draft law extends the bonus scheme for private employers employing pupils in initial vocational training courses in parallel with the Igu scheme. As I have said, I am pleased that there seems to be support for the bill, especially in view of the fact that earlier this year the Danish Parliament also decided to allow people who have been displaced from Ukraine to participate in the Igu programmes. In this way, the scheme could also be a small part of the response to the challenges posed by the extraordinary situation in Ukraine for our society. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112136	There is a brief comment. First, it's from Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112140	Thank you. As I put a question to the rapporteur, I would also like to put the same question to the Minister: at a time when companies are crying out for labour and when we have people who have the physics to be on the labour market, although it may well be that they can fit into all jobs. So they are neither sick nor worn out, but are people who should get out to order some of the many places where there is a need for help. is it really social democratic policy that Danish taxpayers now have to pay a bonus to get these people into work when there is such an extreme shortage of labour? Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112225	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112227	I think it is fair to employers to compensate them for some of the trouble that can be caused by people who may find it harder to understand the language or who have some other challenges. I myself have worked in workplaces where people with foreign backgrounds from the municipality, who came out in work tests and in different courses, are often far more difficult than if people speak Danish and have an ingrained understanding of Danish values. That's why it costs extra. Compared to the big wheels of foreign policy and the costs associated with it, this is a very small part of it. That's about. 40,000 kroner. over 2 years, so you get 1,700 kroner. a month. I think that if that is the price for us actually succeeding in getting people into work, so that they can also pay some taxes and, of course, also help to ensure that it all runs around and that they become independent individuals with their own earnings and all the self-respect that it gives, then it is a price that is worth paying.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112326	Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112327	We have plenty of industries, not least the catering industry, where people come here without being able to speak Danish. They take jobs as dishwashers, as cleaning staff, etc., and quietly learn the language because they have colleagues because they have an interest in entering the Danish labour market so that they can support themselves, and because they have some standards that say that when you want to enjoy, you must also provide. But here we are dealing with a group that gets nourished; no matter where in the Western world they are, they get nourished from head to bottom. Is that really fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112404	Then we get answers from the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112406	Well, I happen to have tried to work in the restaurant business myself, where we got people out. Whatever you can say, washing dishes can all find out, it's just trouble when people, for example. I don't know the language. There are some extra costs associated with it. Then you can think it's wrong that people are here and that you want to change how the influx is. We are endeavouring to ensure that there is as low an influx as possible, but it is indisputable that there is some trouble for an employer, and I think that is fair enough to compensate people for that too. It is not for the benefit of the individual that they should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112437	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112439	I fear that the Igu could become a dead end, and that is why I would like to ask whether there is any consideration of the possibility of a systematic entry, either for work in the form of, for example, work. certificate or evidence of formal qualifications or for training in the form of credit transfer and such. Then I would like to ask whether there are any considerations about introducing a v-igu, an adult integration education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112508	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112509	No, there are no considerations about making, you might say, new ramifications within the Igu scheme. I think it is important and that we should be aware that the Igu system is a limited system built on top of the large influx that occurred in 2015 and that, if we expand it too much, we risk actually acting as wage dumping, pressing the conditions on which people are, and therefore I am very careful to go down that path. In terms of whether it will be a dead end, I do not think that getting a job is a dead end, but it is a great opportunity to become a master in one's own life and to be an active and participating citizen and answer every one's, and I think it is the most important thing that we get people into jobs. And then I am sure that people, on the day they want to take an amu course or a real vocational training course or, to that extent, take a academic education, so that they are prepared to move on to it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112609	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112613	Thank you. If I may follow up on what Mrs Pernille Vermund asked, it is precisely this bonus scheme. For a bonus scheme for companies can make sense if it is the case that there has been a large influx to Denmark and it is difficult to get many out into the labour market in a short time. But right now we are a little in a different situation where for a while, among other things. also because of corona, has not been a great influx to Denmark and where the labour market about something really lacks labour. So has the Ministry actually made the effort to investigate whether this bonus is still relevant? Because if it is, it may make sense, but if it is something that has lived out its time, it might be a waste of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112653	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112655	I will send you an answer as to whether it has been examined; I am not a hundred percent down to that yet. However, I would say that I think it makes sense to have a bonus scheme, regardless of the fact that there is also pressure on the labour market, that there are additional barriers associated with this, and if these arrangements are to work, it is of course both necessary for individuals to enter them, but it also requires employers to find it attractive, and there is, of course, part of the overall package that they say yes to when you as an employer accept people, and I think it means a little in relation to how you look at it. Well, that's 1,700 kroner. a month, and now I don't remember the exact level of pay, but it might be 8-9 per cent. I think that is not what makes the difference. But it can be a compensation in relation to it. But I'll send it over if there's been anything, and it's not because I can't understand the point of view. But I think there are extra assignments to take people on this scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112757	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112759	Thank you. But just for the sake of good order: any crown that can be saved from taxpayers' money is well saved on behalf of the citizens. So even if it is not a huge cost, it is still something that we must be aware of. And there are plenty of other schemes, and I also believe that Working Holiday shows that it is typically people who do not speak Danish, and it is not the case that companies who use that scheme just get a bonus every time they hire one from let's say Argentina. But in any case, I would like to thank the Minister for her attention and, of course, I am aware that this draft law has been drawn up long before the Minister himself arrived, so we will look forward to that answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112837	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112838	Thank you. Of course, it is quite true that you do not need one penny more than what we need, but on the other hand I would also say that if we get people into jobs, as is happening to a large extent at the moment with people who have a foreign background, then we will also save some money in the long term or at least get some more revenue. So, of course, you have to keep an eye on that too. Then I would like to say in relation to Working Holiday that it is usually people who speak English, at least those from the United States and Australia etc., but probably also those from South America. So they have at least some pre-conditions for getting in better.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112915	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112918	Thank you. I myself said in my rapporteur's speech that reading figures is quite boring, but it is nevertheless very relevant, it can be said, in relation to this, and one can only see that it has not been a success. I mean, it hasn't, and that's why I'm surprised that you keep going. Because it has not been an immediate success with the figures that are quite obvious. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505112945	I mean, it's about 2,700 that have come through this process, and it's still some if you look at what their alternative would have been if they hadn't gotten into a job if they'd had difficulty getting a job for the salary that we pay in Denmark if they didn't have qualifications for it. Then it is true that it is now very low, but we also have a large group of displaced persons from Ukraine at the moment, and of course we hope that they will come home to their country and help rebuild it, but that, while they are here, they can also join our labour market and contribute, just as we are helping them to be protected in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113024	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113025	I think they can do that, even without this arrangement. I do not think that will be a problem at all, especially for Ukrainians. But that is actually not what we are talking about. That is not what we are talking about at all, and I mentioned it a little in my rapporteur's speech, and I am kind of in my head thinking: why not? I mean, it was like, when I said it, I just said it and it has become in my head that there are many older citizens who have an incredibly difficult time entering the labour market, and there one might perhaps consider that a system could also be created so that people could be brought in. Because there are a lot of people who want to, but the labour market is not always quite right about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113105	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113106	I certainly agree that there are many elderly people who are discriminated against at their age, and that is quite unreasonable, just as it is to be discriminated against on other things. But I also find that there are many older people, including those who are actually retired, who in these months are being called back into the labour market and get jobs in shorter hours around society. So I agree that we are not trying to ensure that older people in the labour market also have the same conditions as everyone else, but that is not my area to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113139	As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113152	The debate is open. First we give the floor to Kasper Sand Kjær from the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113204	Thank you for the floor. The bill here proposes to implement an agreement that the government entered into with Agriculture & Food, 3F and GLS-A back in October last year. The aim of the agreement is to ensure that the training scheme for foreign trainees in the green area has a primary educational objective. In addition, the agreement must ensure that Danish pupils and apprentices are not displaced for the benefit of foreign trainees. Of course, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is fundamentally positive when good experiences and educational opportunities are exchanged across borders. It is positive that foreign students and trainees have the opportunity to come to Denmark as part of their education, just as Danish young people can go and train elsewhere in the world. But what is of course important is that it should not be at the expense of Danish pupils and apprentices, but that it should be done on proper conditions. Among other things, it has to be done. is ensured by the fact that a residence permit for an intern in the green area will be subject to the condition that the internship has been employed or sought for pupils or apprentices if there has been a significant shortage of apprenticeships within the profession. The draft law also proposes that the Trade Committee for the Training of Farmers should be able to assist SIRI in on-the-job inspections. Finally, the draft law proposes that a so-called dispute between a foreign intern in the green area and his/her internship should be brought before the Trade Committee on Agricultural Training and that, if a settlement cannot be reached, the matter could then be referred to the Dispute Board. With those words, I can announce that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113349	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that is why the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mads Bird from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113404	Thank you for the floor. The bill is the implementation of the agreement reached by the government and the parties behind the Trade Committee for Agricultural Training last autumn. We in the Left support such agreements. The Left has a long tradition of supporting agreements that are made within the Danish model, and that goes on if of course we go along with them. Denmark has a rich tradition of educating some of the best employees in the green area. This agreement helps to ensure that future farmers and gardeners receive the best possible training. Today there is a great shortage of green labour, and therefore the Left is also in favour of an extension of the internship period of foreign trainees in Denmark, which was carried out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Foreign trainees are an important part of daily work around the country. Like Danish students, foreign trainees form an ordinary part of the labour force in the country's farms and horticultures. Of course, we must continue to support this. In the Left, we also understand that we in Denmark cannot stand and ask for more foreign labour for an agricultural sector that wants more hands, without even taking the lead in educating our own. Therefore, we are also positive that Danish students should take precedence if there is a shortage of apprenticeships. Against this background, the Left will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113531	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Halime Oguz of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113550	Thank you for the floor, and thank you to the Government for this bill, which is a necessary strengthening of the educational objectives of the internship scheme in the green area, because the scheme must not be abused for social dumping, and both trainees and the internship should benefit from an internship. Therefore, SF believes it is a very good idea to strengthen the supervision of foreign trainees in the green area. In the areas where Denmark has a significant shortage of jobs, it is okay for Danish pupils and apprentices to be displaced by foreign trainees. This is why we support the draft law, which means that the residence permit of an intern is now conditional on the fact that a given internship has had or sought pupils during a Danish vocational training course. Against this background, I can inform you that the SF supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113647	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113702	Thank you, President. We also support this bill. This is a very good proposal which, of course, translates into the agreement that the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned. I would also like to add to the previous rapporteurs that there has been a practice in agriculture where Danish agricultural pupils have been actually chosen before they have been chosen from abroad, but that we now also have a law that ensures that they do so every time, we in the Radical Left really do think that is quite excellent. The problem in agriculture, for example. In West Jutland and North Jutland, it has long been that you have not been able to recruit enough agricultural students. There are simply not enough Danish young people seeking agricultural training. This is also another fundamental problem which, of course, we do not have to deal with with with this bill, but at least now we are getting to grips with the fact that the pupils who are are going to have an apprenticeship in agriculture. Then it is also gratifying that the foreign trainees receive the same rights and the same right of appeal as the Danish trainees. That is why we warmly support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113812	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505113829	Thank you, President. This is a subject that we are really, really happy about. I think we had the former minister in consultation on very many interns. At least we asked many questions, also in close cooperation with the Left, because we could just see that a lot of Danish farms were hungry for foreign trainees, and a lot of those who came here came here, among other things. from Ukraine. I myself have visited agriculture and have seen with my own eyes how difficult it can be for some Danish agriculture, not least because it is difficult for a lot of agriculture to recruit young Danes for the same work. During corona it got really, really bad. In fact, we had Ukrainians here in Denmark who wanted to go to work, but could not, because they were literally not allowed to enter the country because of troublesome Corona rules, but the fact that they were already here meant that they were not allowed to enter the labour market. It's great when our good associations out there can find each other for themselves. Now Agriculture & Food and 3F have found each other, and with the support of the Minister and the blue parties, an agreement has been made that both 3F and Agriculture & Food are happy and that farmers are happy about it is of course also with a strengthened focus on people who abuse the scheme and on control. And when everyone is happy in the associations, especially Agriculture & Food and 3F, we are also happy. So, of course, we wholeheartedly support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505114001	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505114017	The Danish People's Party fully agrees with the government that an internship in agriculture should be used for training and that the internship scheme should not be abused for social dumping. If we have contributed in the past to changes in law in relation to the internship scheme, it has also been for that purpose. Foreigners who have come to Denmark for a period of work or internship must be treated properly. We have seen some cases where the working environment has simply not been right, for example. the Filipino truck drivers who had come to Denmark via work permits in Poland and the Romanians who were associated with the construction of the new hospital in Odense, who had been accommodated in Vollsmose, where they had delivered three pigs for sharing on a balcony. This is simply not a proper way of dealing with employees, and although these cases do not concern trainees but employees, unfortunately there are broken vessels in the industry. It must then be the case that the agreement reached between the government and the Technical Committee on Agricultural Training, among other things. it becomes clear that the residence permit of an intern must be conditional on the fact that the internship has had employees or sought pupils or apprentices who are undergoing vocational training if there is a substantial shortage of apprenticeships. We are pleased that it will be possible for foreign trainees to raise disagreements between the intern and the internship of the trade committee. So all in all, we will be able to support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505114215	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505114220	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing today is, as has already been mentioned, the implementation of parts of an agreement concluded between the government and the parties behind the Technical Committee on Agricultural Education, Agriculture & Food, 3F and GLS-A. New citizens support the intention of the proposal, and we also note that the consultation responses from the organisations behind the agreement are immediately positive with regard to the proposed legislative proposal. That is why we in the New Citizen expect to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505114249	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then I can give the floor to Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505114301	Thank you. Actually, I've had some doubts about how we're gonna deal with this bill. But after all, it is all very positive things that are in it. For example: This means that as a student you will have a much stronger legal position than you have had in the past, and there are other parts where you will be better off and where we will be stronger in relation to social dumping. It is just that there are also some things in which we do not really think that employers had to be accommodated. But this is sometimes the case with the art of compromise; it is an agreement in which the parties have agreed on it. And that also means that we end up backing it up. But now that we are on this issue here today, I hope it calls for such general reflection and reflection among the parties of the Folketing. The journal 3F has an article today that shows how Ukrainian refugees are being exploited as cheap labour in agriculture. And in relation to the problems that exist, we warned about it when that bill was to be dealt with, and it just shows that we have by no means solved the problem. I hope that some of the problems we have seen with students who did not know where to go will be resolved with this bill. And that is also why we are going to support it, in other words because of the improvements that are there. But we are not in the finish line. Enhedslisten backs up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505114431	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. That is why we are giving the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505114448	Thank you to the rapporteurs for their speeches. It is essential for the government that internships in the green area are used for training purposes and that the internship scheme is not abused for social dumping in the green area or for easier access to work in the green area than the existing business opportunities allow. At the same time, the government also recognises that the foreign trainees are an important part of the daily operation in the green area. It is therefore also important that the internship scheme ensures a fruitful stay for both the foreign intern and for the Danish internship, which at the same time assumes an educational responsibility. In October 2021, the Government and the Parties to the Trade Committee on Agricultural Training concluded an agreement to seek to improve the scheme for foreign trainees in the field. The agreement contains four initiatives: firstly, a requirement for the internships to have employees or to try to recruit trainees in vocational training if there is a substantial shortage of internships in the industry; secondly, a strengthening of the supervision of foreign trainees and the internship; thirdly, the right for foreign trainees to complain to the trade committee; and fourthly, an extension of the period of stay of foreign trainees in the green field. The draft law is the execution of parts of the agreements which require amendment of the law. The initiative of the agreement, which concerns an extension of the length of stay from 12 to 18 months for foreign trainees, has already been implemented. The draft law lays down a requirement for the internship to sign a declaration of employment or attempt to recruit pupils or apprentices in vocational training if there is a significant shortage of places for pupils in the industry. In addition, it is proposed that the Technical Committee for the Training of Farmers should be able to assist the Danish Agency for International Recruitment and Integration on visits to the internships. Finally, the Aliens Act provides for the possibility for a dispute between a foreign intern in the green field and his/her place of internship to be brought before the Trade Committee on Agricultural Training to seek conciliation. Furthermore, it is proposed that, if no settlement can be reached, the dispute should be brought before the Dispute Board. It is my hope that with the agreement and now with this bill we have found a permanent solution that can reach the future of the internship scheme, and with these words I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their good contributions and look forward to the further examination of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505114707	Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for the floor, and since there is no one, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505114719	The debate is open, and first we give the floor to Mr Beazley. Kasper Sand Kjær, Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505114731	Thank you for the floor. The bill here proposes to implement those parts of the reinforced international recruitment agreement that were concluded in January this year • those parts of it that require amendments to the Aliens Act. We have already been around it several times: Danish companies across industries are screaming for labour and having difficulty recruiting the workforce they need, both in Denmark and among European employees, and therefore it has been in demand by companies and employers' organisations that the opportunities for strengthening their international recruitment were looked at. The draft law here proposes, among other things: to introduce a temporary supplementary system of amounts, setting the income limit of DKK 375,000. for a limited period of 2 years, for the management of labour shortages in the years to come. In addition, the draft law also proposes to extend the fixed-track scheme so that the requirement for the number of full-time employees to be employed by a company in order to be certified to use the fast-track scheme is reduced from at least 20 to at least 10 full-time employees, i.e. half-time, which will allow much more companies to have access to that scheme. For the Social Democratic Party, it is of course crucial that we ensure that Danish industry and Danish companies have access to the labour they need. At the same time, however, it is important that we ensure that Danish pay and working conditions are respected when we open up the possibility of more foreign workers coming to Denmark from outside Europe. That's why it's always about finding a balance between protecting the Danish labour market and the Danish model on the one hand and allowing companies to recruit the workforce they need on the other. This bill has found that balance and embraces both considerations. The bill also includes extending the job search period from 6 to 12 months for foreign students who have completed a higher education in Denmark, and finally it is also proposed to extend the positive list and the Start-up Denmark scheme. With those words, I can announce that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505114946	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mads Bird from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115001	Thank you for the floor. The government has had difficulty for some time in fulfilling their responsibilities to secure labour at a time when companies need labour. The Left has long struggled to make it easier to attract qualified international labour. We tried to get the government involved in this when, together with the Conservatives, the Liberals and the New Citizens' Party earlier this year, we tabled a resolution which would do just that. The government's solution, however, is a short-term arrangement with too many bends and too much trouble. This in no way solves the challenges facing businesses. In the current situation, we do not need short-term solutions. We need reforms to ensure that our companies have access to the labour force that guarantees growth and prosperity and that will help to finance the welfare of the future and the green transition. Unfortunately, we have a government that has spent the last three years implementing initiatives that pull people out of the labour market and thus restrict our companies' access to labour. That's worrying. That makes us all poorer. When it comes to international labour, they have created a model that in no way secures the labour we need in Danish companies. We want another way in the left. We want much more, and we want to ensure that companies have access to the skilled labour they demand and which is part of the basis of the welfare that we have at home. We want to lower the limit further than the proposal here adds up to as much as DKK 360,000. For international labour, for the countries with which we have the most trade, it must be done permanently. And, contrary to the government's bill, this should not be seen as a short-term solution where it can suddenly be changed, but must be in a way so that companies know what they have to comply with in a lasting manner. The wise men agree with the considerations we have put forward. They say that it will not have a noticeable lasting effect if the limit is raised again in a few years' time. That is why it must be a permanent arrangement. For the reasons I have mentioned here, the Left cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it stands. It is simply not ambitious enough. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115235	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115241	Thank you very much. I must admit that I am disappointed with the conclusion reached in the Left not to support this bill. After all, our two parties are alliance partners, when it comes to wanting to give companies the opportunity to get international labour, to get the labour they need. The Left rapporteur stands from the platform and says that one is more ambitious and wants much more, wants a permanent solution. We also want this in the Radical Left, but we also say yes when we take a step in the right direction. Why is it that the Left does not support us taking a step in the right direction? We do not quite achieve it, but that is the way it is when compromises are reached.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115324	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115326	I believe that the disappointment between our parties is mutual. If the Radical Left had lived up to the principles they used to live up to in this area, they would have gone with us, and then we would have had a majority in favour of a system that would have increased labour supply much more than is the case with this very bad proposal. I think that when you can choose between a bad model and a much better model, it's not that difficult a choice, but it's obviously been for the Radical Left on this issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115359	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115401	No, it hasn't been very difficult, and that's because the model of the Left, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: does it really think that companies look at labour differently according to which countries they come from? Or does the rapporteur think that companies do not really care about a worker's origin and country status and are actually just interested in the fact that it is skilled workers who enter and participate in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115441	So, now I am completely confused, because the regime we have put forward, in which the Radical Left cannot see itself, you call it discriminatory, even though it extends the number of countries much more than is the case today. We think it is logical to define countries based on whom we have the most trade. I find it difficult to understand that it is discriminatory to want to increase contact with countries with which we already have good experience and have a lot of trade.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115514	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115517	I must admit that the rapporteur's conclusion surprises me somewhat. Should it really be a difference of 25,000 kroner? at annual income level, which means that the Left cannot support a bill that Danish companies and Danish employers' organisations have been calling for for longer to meet their challenges of recruiting labour? We may disagree on how exactly the cut should be, but here you are moving a huge step in the direction that the Left has been in favour of in the past too, but because you did not reach the last 25,000 kroner. by the way at the annual income level, then the Left chooses to vote against. Is that how it was supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115602	If it was the only crunch, I think it might be easier to find each other politically. But it's not. Your system is not permanent; it may be cancelled again if the business cycle changes. No one out there is asking for that. You need permanent and firm rules that you can navigate by, and not wanting to deliver it is in our optics and, according to the experts who have assessed our two different proposals, a completely wrong way to go. So that's especially where the water divides. But then it also means a lot to us that the government continues to set such a high limit that it simply shuts out more people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115655	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115656	Now this is really about relaxing. That is what the draft law is about; it is about relaxing the system of amounts, so that more companies will be able to recruit foreign workers than they are today, where they cannot find labour within the borders of Denmark or Europe. That's why it's not exactly the right picture. Would the rapporteur not agree that employers' organizations want this bill to be adopted because they can see that it opens up the possibility for more of their member companies to recruit labour that they cannot recruit today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115732	Well, I am certainly very much concerned with the views of the social organisations on these matters and have noticed that they think that our proposal is far preferable to what the government has put forward and, above all, they point out that making temporary arrangements is very unsustainable compared to making a permanent solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115750	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Halime Oguz from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505115807	Thank you. In this bill, we translate parts of the political agreement that we concluded with the government, the Radical Left and the Christian Democrats back in January. The purpose of the agreement is to remedy the shortage of labour through international recruitment. This has to be done, among other things. This will be achieved by means of a temporary supplementary scheme to make it easier for foreign workers to come to Denmark and work for a period of time. Specifically, the limit is reduced from an annual income of DKK 448,000. for DKK 375,000. during a limited period until July 2024. For SF, it has been important to limit the scheme to two years and to suspend the scheme if gross unemployment increases. In addition, companies must have posted the job on Jobnet before searching for foreign labour. These fence posts help to ensure that the foreign labour force does not outperform the Danish workers, and this is important. In addition to this, it has been essential for the SF to ensure proper employment conditions so that we avoid social dumping, both because it is the only decent but also to ensure equal and fair conditions. The agreement also states that business must take responsibility for bringing the Danes outside the labour market with them. This is precisely what is extremely important. Right now there are 76,000 young people without jobs or training, 49,000 people with disabilities who would like to work, 26,000 seniors who are trying to get their feet inside companies, 14,000 looking for a flex job, and then there are 10,000 people who are currently having difficulty finding an internship, etc. etc. So there are plenty of idle hands in Denmark, and we should focus on them before we call for foreign labour. The economic boom is fantastic, as it gives us the opportunity to create a new and more inclusive labour market where there is also room for those who cannot work full time or too full screw every day. That is why we would have liked to see a greater focus on that particular point. However, having said that, we in the SF would of course like to recognise that there are some companies out there who are currently having a very difficult time, and when companies themselves demand foreign labour, we would like to help introduce this temporary arrangement to see if it can help. Against this background, I can inform you that we in the SF support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120042	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120057	Thank you very much, President. Every time there are new employment figures, I see that several government ministers go on Facebook and welcome a strong Danish economy. And with the strong Danish economy, as things are at present, there is also a massive shortage of labour, and it is a challenge that needs to be solved. The solution then consists of many different elements, and one of the elements is what we are discussing in the Parliamentary Chamber today, namely strengthened international recruitment. With this bill, a new temporary system of amounts will be put in place, with the limit of the amount being lower than today. We set the requirement for the number of full-time employees that a company needs to have in order to be certified to use the fasttrack scheme, down from 20 full-time employees to 10, and the job search stay is extended from 6 months to 12 months for foreign students who have completed a higher education in Denmark. These are all very good initiatives. Could we in the Radical Left have wanted a more ambitious agreement, as the rapporteur of the Left wanted? Yeah, we could. Could we have wanted a permanently lower limit? Yeah, I'd like that, too. However, we are very satisfied with the agreement we have made and with the solution we have come up with now. I would also like to remind you that when there was a Left Government, the VLAK government, it was always the Danish People's Party that stuck a stick in the wheel in order for companies to have access to international labour. Now, as I hear the rapporteur from the Left, the Left is sticking a stick in the wheel for companies to have access to international labour, that is to say the labour they really need; the labour we as a society need to be able to achieve the green transition, in order to meet the many demands and aspirations of the welfare society. I am simply speechless and disappointed. But, of course, on the part of the Radical Left, we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120314	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120316	Thank you to the rapporteur. I could not help but notice that the rapporteur just now called the very good proposal that we have presented, in which we permanently reduce the amount of money for these countries, with which we are dealing very, very much, racist; I think that is even what the rapporteur called it. Samira Nawa No). If that wasn't the word, I'd like to apologize. Was it discrimination? All other things being equal, not long ago we discussed the Igu, where we are just going in and giving a bonus to companies that take people who have come here through the refugee system, like everything else, are people who have come here from, among others. Middle East. So the rapporteur's party is in favour of setting up a bonus scheme aimed solely and exclusively at people who have come from a particular group of countries. It may make sense if it is the case that it helps people to get into the labour market, but why is it that you support discrimination and apologize for using the wrong word in relation to one bill and not the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120418	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120419	I think I called it discrimination. When I do that, it is because there are politicians from the various parties behind the proposal that Mr. Marcus Knuth refers to, who has been out and actually very frankly say that it is about not wanting foreign labour from Muslim countries or from the so-called MENAPT countries. And when you are so clear about it, it is also an active discrimination that is involved, and we in the Radical Left will not be supporting it. As far as international labour is concerned, we do not really believe that companies look at the labour force differently, depending on where it comes from. Of course they look at it differently if people are not equally qualified, but it is the qualifications that are at the centre, not the country of origin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120512	Thank you for clarifying that with the word discrimination. But all other things being equal, it is the content of the proposal that we are making that is important, regardless of the wording of different parties in the rhetoric of what lies behind it. And if the content is good, and if the content strengthens it, that our Danish companies can bring labour here from the countries with which a great deal is already traded, why not look at the content?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120542	But the content is also very good in terms of the elements contained in the motion for a resolution that was tabled, because a great many of them were, after all, the same as the elements of the agreement in which the Radical Left was involved. But there was also this element of content, not just a wording, as one politician has said, but, in terms of content, the discrimination which looks at some countries and excludes other countries. And we in the Radical Left cannot support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120616	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120621	Thank you. This is just getting more and more bizarre. Following on from what Mr. Marcus Knuth asked me about, I have to ask you something. If, when you introduce the Igu and now extend the Igu, you do so in recognition of the fact that there are some people who have come here and who, for linguistic and cultural reasons, have more difficulty in integrating themselves into the Danish labour market and therefore need financial help, and if you do so in a single legal procedure, and we did so for two legal proceedings since, not with the support of New Citizens, but with the backing of the Radical Left, who said Radical Left: we would like to make positive treatment here because we recognise that there are some linguistic and cultural challenges for the people who come from the METAPT countries, and if, when we deal with this proposal, you do not want to recognise that there are linguistic and cultural challenges for people coming from the METAPT countries and you do not want to make positive treatment for those who have special qualifications, then it does not make sense. I fully agree that if you had been principled all around, that would have been fair enough. But this is gilding one party and then rejecting another.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120728	No, Mrs Pernille Vermund is completely wrong. In other words, the legal treatment that we have just had for a few legal proceedings since on the Igu scheme is, of course, about refugees and family couples and about them being able to enter the Danish labour market. It is therefore complete and one to the principles of a Radical Left that part of being able to be integrated is to be able to join the labour market, even if you have a refugee background, and even if you are a family member in Denmark. I simply do not see what logic Mrs Pernille Vermund is trying to impose on the Radical Left that we should not be discriminated against when it comes to international labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120814	But the logic is that Radical Left says: companies don't care where these people come from and that there is no difference between labour, depending on where it comes from. At the same time, two legal procedures have since been extended, in which we grant special subsidies to Danish companies and make special arrangements for people coming from Muslim countries, because we recognise that there are some linguistic and some cultural barriers to their entering the Danish labour market. So, either there must be some linguistic and cultural problems with the people who come from Muslim countries, or there is not. It cannot be that it is there in one legal procedure and that there is not in the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120852	Well, it is quite possible that Mrs Pernille Vermund's party said no to the Igu scheme because it had something to do with some Muslims. This is not the case for the Radical Left. And when I say that the labour market does not care where people come from, it is based on the fact that those people have the same qualifications. When some refugees come to Denmark, we agree that there can be challenges with the language and there can be challenges with the history of the labour market and qualifications in general, and it is therefore appropriate to provide the labour market with a subsidy to help those people enter the labour market, and the Igu is made up of both a business-oriented part, a language effort and an upgrading effort. So it is not quite the same thing when we are talking about recruiting international labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120941	The next brief remark is to Mr. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505120944	I would just like to know briefly whether the rapporteur can confirm that the proposal we have put forward would make India a country covered by the agreement we have proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505121004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505121005	That sounds like something I should be able to answer yes to, but I have to admit I'm not quite keen on it. But I'm sure that's true.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505121012	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505121014	India is one of the countries with which Denmark has the most cooperation, and that is why it will be included in our proposal. My next question is whether the rapporteur can then confirm that India has one of the world's largest Muslim populations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505121027	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505121028	Yeah, but that's true. The problem is: why are there countries which would be excluded by the proposal that Mr. Mads Birded and other parties have been behind it if it wasn't about them being Muslim countries? If, on the other hand, we go out and say openly and honestly that is exactly what this is all about, then we are talking about discrimination, discrimination which, frankly, I do not believe in is discrimination between employers and the labour market. There you look at whether the person you recruit is qualified to do your job or not qualified.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505121116	Thank you very much to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Victoria Velasquez from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505121128	Thank you for that and for an exciting debate. There are, of course, many ways of discussing how we can both create better opportunities for some work environments, but also how we ensure that we make demands on employers. And it comes down to the fact that, unfortunately, we have seen time and again how there are no inhibitions when it comes to the hunger of some employers after being able to make some profit. They like to do so from the backs of wage earners, whom they make the most of. Therefore, we believe that fast-track schemes can be one of the best ways to work and manage international labour, because it is frankly recognised that there are economic incentives for employers to, as it were, comply with the law and to actually be decent employers. So even if there are some who are reasonably indifferent to other people and only care about their own wallet, then they get an economic incentive to behave properly. This proposal, however, is about more than that. It also goes in and changes the size of how many employees you need, and sets it down to 10. This also causes concern, and it is in relation to the fact that we already know today how many people have come and have to work and where there is no control over employment contracts, there is no control over the money that has to be paid in taxes, there is no control over the wages that people have to have and there is no control over their working environment. And then you expand the group on such a massive scale without actually following it to the door, and it simply creates an imbalance. So we are very, very concerned about that part. In addition, it is also some industries in which we have seen before that there may be high levels of social dumping and where we see some problems that already exist today. For example: with the CSC and the conflict there, where it happened that the employees were set to go 40 per cent. In this way, they are being played off against foreign employees who had much worse conditions and who also exploited the fact that many of the IT professionals were listed in a black book if they, for example, were to be found in a black book. made use of battle steps that you have as part of the Danish model in Denmark. That is why we think it is a pity and that it would make a great deal of sense to look at fast-track schemes and how to make them less bureaucratic and how to make it even simpler to use, but that at the same time we also make some demands on employers. SF made a lot of good suggestions earlier, and this is something that is also mentioned in Denmark, but the hand is not on the hot plate. There is nothing concrete that actually ensures that we get more flex jobs created and that we ensure that more people are able to go further, so that they, for example, can go further. can qualify for the needs that are. That is why it is going to be declarations of intent, instead of real demands being made. And when I talk about employers, it's really for the state too. After all, this agreement is part of a larger agreement, where there are also new things in the procurement law, and it is also just declarations of intent that do not seize the opportunity that has been offered in the bowl speeches to actually secure more apprenticeships and secure some of the things that we know are extremely important if we are to ensure that we have qualified and trained labour in the future. This also comes on top of the fact that, at the same time, the unemployed have been suspicious and impoverished for a very long time, and that is among other things. This is not the case in the United Kingdom, but in the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom, it is the case in the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. We have seen numerous examples of this, that is to say that a great many people are looking for a great many different jobs, but I really do miss the fact that there is also a discussion of employers in relation to the fact that they are looking for the dream worker and that, in fact, we are creating more opportunities for continuing training and that there are requirements for someone to be employed in flex jobs or in other ways, so that we can have a more inclusive labour market. That work continues on, and I hope we will get some more things on, and then there are also some things that are still uncertain about some of the money that needs to be negotiated further in relation to Denmark Can More In Denmark, where I hope it will be possible to get a little more concrete on the table, including the procurement law. Because this part of it doesn't live up to it, and that's why we can't back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505121621	Thank you very much to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505121637	Thank you, President. This bill seems to us to be the hypocrisy of the government when it comes to foreign labour. We have been fighting for a long time for a lower amount of money; now, together with the Left, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, we have proposed a really, very good and permanent regime that makes it easier to get here, especially from the countries with which we are dealing most. And the government simply does not want that, and that is in spite of the fact that the Danish labour market is hungering for foreign labour as never before. After all, we have just had a long debate with the Radical Left. We had so hoped that the Radical Left would support this proposal, and we hear Mrs Samira Nawa asking Mr. Mads Birded. The agreement put forward by the government is a small step in a positive direction, but it will not be supported here, even though it is a much larger step in a positive direction, simply because it is called discrimination. So, India is one of the countries with which we include in countries with which we work. So I'm having a hard time seeing how it's discrimination. If it is the case that our agreement in the eyes of the Radical Left is not exactly as you would like it to be, but a huge step in the right direction, I simply cannot understand why you will not support something that will be unequivocally good for the Danish labour market. That's what it's gonna do. Not only will it be clearly good; it will be permanently opposed to the solution presented by the government together with the Radical Left. That's what the government brings here. It is bureaucratic, it opens up far too late, and there are leg buckles like having to prove that you have looked up a job first and so on. etc. I mean, it's a pretty messy, messy solution to what we're coming with, and it's targeted at what our companies are hungry for, and it's permanent, instead of the government being able to rewind it, and then they can stand and say: we came up with a solution that was a small step in the right direction, but now we are rewinding it. This is among other things. That's why we can't support this. And then it comes in the wake of the government's many other initiatives, which repeatedly undermine the Danish labour market and reduce labour supply and which make Denmark and the Danes poorer. We are also opposed to this, and we are also opposed to the draft law presented by the government here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505121859	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Yes, there was a brief comment here, I'm sorry. It's from Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505121912	I just want to know if the rapporteur can confirm that it is a little strange to talk about a form of religious discrimination when you give the country with the third largest Muslim population access to the Danish labour market with this agreement. Is it completely on the moon to talk down that track?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505121932	I am very pleased that the rapporteur also mentioned India in relation to the Radical Left, because when it is the case that such a large country with such a large Muslim population is included in our agreement, I find it difficult to see how we can point to this and call it discrimination. It is as if, particularly in the Radical Left, who really wants to be a party that wants to cooperate with the Blue Block on foreign labour, it is simply using it as an excuse not to support it and an excuse for working with the government instead of doing what is said and providing support for an agreement that is permanent and which also includes countries that certainly have a great anti-Muslim population.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122012	Sir. Mads Birded, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122013	Thank you for your answer. We must hope that such general geographical knowledge of the countries around us will become more widespread.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122022	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122026	The next brief remark is from Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122028	Thank you. One step in the right direction, the Conservative rapporteur calls this bill, but why is it that we do not really want to support it here, because it may well be that you cannot have everything you dream of, and we cannot do that in the Radical Left, unfortunately, because then the world would have looked quite different. But since you can't get everything you dream of, but you can get some of it, should you say no to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122056	I'm sorry if I was saying the wrong thing. I do not think that this is a step in the right direction, since it is something that we can simply rewind. All other things being equal, I am left with the fact that Mrs Samira Nawa says no to what has come from the blue parties here because of some statements made by the new citizens, rather than looking at the content. And when it is the case that India, with a huge Muslim population, is one of the countries we put on the list where we want to reduce the amount system permanently well and feel, it seems more as if you have been offended and do not want to be in the agreement, because New Citizens are included, even though it is a really, really good agreement, not just a step in the right direction, as Mrs Samira Nawa calls the government's, but a really, really good agreement, which also includes countries that are very far away from Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122152	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122154	I am sorry; I had not just caught, it was myself that was quoted. I just have to comment on this with the discriminatory element, because that has been made clear in the press. Among other things, it has. was sir. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance, who has said that the reason why his motion for a resolution has been drafted in this way is that some countries have been excluded from the list, is that North African countries and countries from the Middle East will be excluded on the basis of some crime statistics and on the basis of the fact that there are several parties that should agree on it. So this isn't something I'm just pulling out of my hat in relation to the discriminatory element. You look at crime statistics, but when you come to Denmark as an international labour force, it is not to be a criminal; then it is to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122246	That is precisely why I do not understand why the Radical Left is rejecting this agreement, because everything else is going to be a huge step in the right direction for Danish companies. And all parties have different reasons for why you support an agreement, and if that is the case and now I am not going to put words in the mouth of New Citizens' Party that New Citizens say this is a good deal, because there are not very many from Muslim countries, we are just looking at it because we think it is a very good deal overall, because there are many countries whose citizens contribute in Denmark. Why not just look at the content instead of having the rhetoric that different parties have used, which everything else just hasn't been the same, depending on which party it has been?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122322	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122325	Thank you. Now the word discriminatory has been used several times in this debate and can the rapporteur confirm that there is a difference between discrimination and discrimination and that we already have a policy, a policy on foreigners which is discriminatory? We have politics in many areas where we accept that in Denmark we are a Danish citizen, and therefore we have rights in Denmark that others do not have. We have a Scandinavian and Nordic defence cooperation. We have an EU. There is also a difference between coming from an EU country or coming from a country outside the EU. We have NATO cooperation in which we commit each other. For example, it says: Ukraine outside. It is a terrible situation for them to stand in. Similarly, we have for visa rules and other, of course, conditions for different countries, which means that we discriminate. Does this mean that we discriminate? No, it doesn't. So I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122421	I can safely confirm that and now the rapporteur replied with many of the things that I myself wanted to say. We have the same discussion when it comes to citizenship. If you are from a Nordic country, you can declare yourself Danish. If you are from an EU country, it is much easier to get permanent residence and therefore Danish citizenship. We have had the whole debate in relation to Ukrainians who come to us in the wake of the war. After all, they already had 90 days of visa freedom for Denmark. You don't have that if you come from Somalia. So there are a number of levels where you already make a difference. When it comes to foreign labour, it makes sense to look at which countries we have good experience with. And then one can use one rhetoric or another, but if it is the case that the agreement itself is really, really positive and also has countries like India with which there is also a Muslim population, which means that it cannot be a discriminatory agreement, why not just back it up?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122518	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122519	And then to the question number one. 2: Can the rapporteur confirm that the resolution we tabled in this Chamber had discrimination based on (1) it should be the ten countries with which we have the most trade, and (2) it should be the countries which have visa-free access to the European Union, and hence discrimination already within the EU system, which is usually something that the Radical Left is enthusiastic about?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122546	That is exactly what the rapporteur says. I support the rapporteur. I don't want to say the exact same thing again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122554	The next brief remark is to Mr. Kasper Sand Kjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122557	I actually have a simple question. I am just a little curious to hear what the rapporteur intends to say when he meets Danish company owners and has to explain why he has voted against a bill that will make it easier for them to attract foreign labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122615	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122616	I would say that I think it is really, really a pity that we had a proposal which, in terms of content, was something for which we could actually have obtained a majority, but that the Radical Left, which is the tongue on the scales here, chose to go with a proposal from the government which is temporary, which is full of leghold traps and which alone is something the government is doing in order, like to appear as if for a short moment you would like to open up foreign labour, knowing that many of the trade unions that support the government may not think it is a good idea. That is why we do not support something so difficult and bureaucratic and temporary when we have put something on the table that is just very good, but that does not get a majority, because the Radical Left has looked mad at a remark from the New Citizens' Party. That is at least how I hear it. So, despite a very sensible content, we have a good agreement that is not a majority in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122707	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122709	That's not what I was asking. I did not ask about the proposal that Mr. Marcus Knuth has made a number of points, and there is by no means a majority in favour, even with the Radical Left. What is interesting here is that we have a bill that makes it easier for Danish companies to recruit foreign labour, which is being shouted at across industries and which employers' organisations have called for, and which, if Mr. Marcus Knuth on behalf of his party goes down and presses yes to the green button, will make it easier for Danish companies to recruit foreign labour than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122746	I'm just gonna straighten out, sir. Kasper Sand Kjær he asked me what I would answer if I was asked on the street, and that is what I answered. But everything else equal is what the government brings here, an attempt at short-term and temporary appearances, like having a solution that one can withdraw again as soon as one wants to, and which is bureaucratic and full of leg buckles. And when it is the case that we have a solution that is just really, really good, then of course it is the one we are leaning towards.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122816	Thank you very much to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505122829	It is actually quite funny to sit here and constantly hear that discrimination is being talked about. We don't order anything else in here. Well, legal treatment is actually discrimination. You can't vote until you're 18; you can't get a retirement pension until you're a certain age. We discriminate all the time, all the time, not just in the field of foreigners, so we should not be so much against that. That's the way it is. Then I actually thought it was quite beneficial to get a complete clarification from the platform, whether it is the bourgeois except the Danish People's Party or the red wing, from the fact that when you talk about recruiting foreign labour, it is also from countries where there is a large Muslim immigration. This cannot be renounced, whether it is from one wing or the other. It has been emphasised many times here from the Left and Conservatives that India, for example, has a very large Muslim population, and they are also included in the proposal from the bourgeois wing around the Danish People's Party. Anyway, back to the proposal: The government will introduce a new scheme which de facto reduces the wage you have to pay as a foreign employee to get to Denmark, from 448,000 DKK. for DKK 375,000. by setting up a new system of amounts. Although the government reserves the right to limit the scheme if more than 10,000 employees come to Denmark as a result of the scheme, we are vertically opposed. Moreover, it is only a reservation, not a promise to change the system. The challenge of attracting foreign labour to Denmark is in many cases greater than the gains. Integration problems, wage pressure and reduced working conditions are just three of the challenges. The Danish People's Party believes that the 448,000 DKK. is a good starting point which ensures that it is mainly people who do not exist on the Danish labour market who come here. If you lower the limit as significantly as is proposed here, it is quite common positions on the Danish labour market which will in future be filled by foreigners. There are about 100,000 unemployed in Denmark. In addition, there are 12 to 13 million unemployed Europeans in the EU countries who can easily be taken to Denmark if there is a shortage of labour here. It is incomprehensible that there should be a need for immigration from the Third World, bearing in mind that companies can pick up labour easily and unbureaucratically throughout the European Union. Furthermore, the government's proposals do not imply any limitation of the countries from which foreigners can come. This means that the government opens the way for immigrants to come to Denmark as labour from countries with which we have poor experience. It could be countries in the Middle East, North Africa or Pakistan. Under no circumstances are we interested in this in the Danish People's Party. There are other approaches that can be taken in order to provide more labour, for example, as has been done, to remove the set-off in the old-age pension, which we have also achieved with the government. Maybe the government should wait and see what the consequences are. In short, this proposal runs the risk of giving Denmark more immigration from the Middle East and North Africa, and we will not, under any circumstances, contribute to this by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505123141	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Vermund from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505123201	Thank you. This draft law is one of several clear examples of the damage that our economic growth and prosperity must suffer when we have a red majority; when we have a government that pretends to come to the rescue of Danish companies by making a proposal based on a so-called agreement... an agreement without a majority behind it... about a proposal in which the professional organisations themselves say that this will probably not make the big difference in relation to the labour force. It will not, because the period we are setting out here is short-lived, because the rules on what unemployment should be like in order to recruit are totally out of line, and because all the clums and bends that have been put into the draft law and in the agreement make it unlikely that the companies will make much of it. And if they do, then there's the challenge in this agreement, in this bill, that you don't give a shit about the fact that the labour that you then seek to get here, including the families that might come in the wake, can also be people coming from countries to which we find it very difficult to send people back because they won't accept their own citizens if their citizens commit crime in Denmark. So when we talk about the problem of bringing more people here, for example. from the MENAPT countries, it is not just because of the crime statistics. It is sad for the victims who suffer when that happens. But it is also because we know that they are criminals more than others, and we know that they commit crime and also serious crime, such as rape, so it is very, very difficult to have them returned to their country of origin. I think it is the Danes who owe it to them to tell us, even as a Socialist, that they are willing to open up immigration, to people from countries that we cannot, if they commit crime when they are in the country, get rid of again. We see what problems it causes at Kærshovedgård. It is a discussion in itself and a matter which the government has promised to resolve, so that people should not be allowed to stay and sentenced to expulsion, who go around harassing the rest of the population. We have just had a consultation on where the government could tell us that it has been so almost like that kicked to the corner or given up a clean confession case. And that is another example of what we can expect with a red government and a large red majority. The proposal before us neither solves the task of the many Danish companies that are crying out for labour nor the task of ensuring, when we then bring people here from abroad, that we ensure that it is not people who are causing greater problems for our societies, especially in relation to the cultural conflicts and the crime that follows people from primarily the MENAPT countries. That is why we are voting against in the New Citizens' Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505123512	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There were no brief comments, which is why we are giving the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505123524	Thank you and thank you for a good debate on the legislative proposal, which is, of course, a response to the legislative measures that the government agreed in January with the SF, the Radical Left and the Christian Democrats to put forward. The draft law provides for a temporary supplementary scheme to deal with labour shortages in the years to come and will include: have a limit of DKK 375,000. annual and will be in force for two years, from 1 July of this year to 1 July of 2024 as long as the unemployment rate does not exceed 3.75%. In addition, we propose to extend the fast track system so that the requirement for the number of full-time employees employed by a company in order to be certified to use the fasttrack system is reduced from at least 20 to at least 10. The draft law also proposes an extension of the positive list for persons with higher education, so that the professionally defined funds and regional labour market councils have the possibility of adding additional job names to the list, and provides that the posts on the list should be deleted at the earliest after two years, so that there is more predictability. The bill also includes an extension of the job search for foreign students who have completed a higher education in Denmark so that they can stay and apply for a job in the country for 12 months and not as today only 6 months. Finally, the bill extends the Start-up Denmark scheme so that a foreign business owner who wishes to open a branch in Denmark by an existing company can also apply for a residence permit through the scheme. At the same time, the Aliens Act states that a foreigner who has already set up a self-successful company in Denmark, for example. while the alien had a different residence basis, has the possibility to apply for a residence permit through Start-up Denmark to run the business. Then I would like to say that there is a majority in this Parliament who recognizes the challenge of labour shortages, and I do not think we agree on how far one should go and how one should do it, but I think what is said by the Conservative rapporteur is very wrong when one claims that this is not a step in the right direction. I think that is simply wrong basically. You may think it is a very small step, or you may think it is almost only a tiny bit to move your foot, but that does not change the fact that it is a step in the direction that is about the fact that it is easier to get labour to Denmark. The amount limit is being reduced and there are a number of restrictions on it there is no doubt about that, but that does not change the fact that it is a step in the right direction. We in the Social Democratic Party have never had a great ambition that the limit on sums should be reduced or drastically reduced. On the other hand, we recognise that there is a situation at the moment where there is a shortage of labour and that is why we agree to this. In other words, one may disagree with how big a step it is, but the direction is quite clear, and I really think it is wrong to say that if only the Radicals would be included in the agreement made between the four bourgeois parties, which together make up 59 seats in the Folketing, it would be adopted. Because you know that's not the case. It is a mathematical fact that even if the Radicals voted in favour of it, there would be no majority in favour of it. So I think it's too bad, and on the left in the old days it was called misery theory. In other words, we voted against all the small progress so as to hope that society would become so miserable that there would be a revolution in the end, and I do not want to accuse a conservative politician in particular of wanting a revolution. That would probably be taking it too far, but I think that V and K should think about whether we want to pursue a policy in the way that we now have something that the government has been sceptical about for a long time and that we then agree to, because there is a need for it in society. Now you are offered an improvement and you may think it is too small, but if you are really very far from having a majority for it, is it really the right decision for two old social parties that have helped build up this society and all the institutions that we are so proud of and the democratic culture we have? Is that really the grip you take? Because it has been clear that the Danish People's Party is not interested in this scheme, and now there must be elections here within a year and a little more, but even if there were a bourgeois majority, the Danish People's Party would still be against it. So there is absolutely no certainty that it will be adopted on that side of an election, and I do not really understand it. But I am sure I will now have some questions, and then we can take the debate further. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124018	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124022	Thank you. I love the Minister's comparison with the theory of misery. But it could also be that, as a citizen, you don't struggle to go against the dark, to break everything before you change anything, but that you believe in the light at the end of the tunnel, and that you actually believe that the Danes can feel the difference in whether you have a red majority or a blue majority. Then it is true that, as long as the Danish People's Party opposes this proposal we have tabled, there is no majority in favour of it. But that does not mean that the proposal we have put forward cannot be improved. It could be that the Danish People's Party could have an interest in it if some of the countries on which the Danish People's Party is betting could come out and that we could still increase the possibility that Danish companies could get labour to do so. You don't know that. It could also be that the Radical Left could come up with better ideas when they see that we are already discriminated against all around our system. This is not about discrimination, it is about discrimination, and it is about discrimination for some elementary reasons to which I would like the Minister's answer. Isn't there anything about it when you shut people here from the MENAPT countries, then it's harder to send them home if they commit crime in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124138	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124139	Thank you. I would like to say that I understand that new citizens stand where new citizens stand. That is what has been elected to the electorate, but I do not understand why V and K do it. Because I think I might mention one major and important social legislation since the chancellorgade settlement, where the two parties have not been involved in one way or another and have contributed and also voted in favour of the way in which we have organised our society. And, of course, New Citizens have a different history, and that is of course something else, but I do not really understand that this is the way to check out the responsible cooperation, as there are in so many areas in Denmark. Then, in relation to what some people are coming here, I would say that the figures I have in my possession say that there are less than three people who have received benefits under the Act on Active Social Policy under the current system of amounts and that there are 0.5% on unemployment benefit. There is no indication that the people who come on this scheme are a great burden on society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124245	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124247	Now it goes without saying that if the conditions for a residence permit are that they are in employment, then they will be in employment, and that is not what we are talking about. What we are talking about is that if they commit crime or if they bring their families here and a son or daughter grow up and become criminals, then it is far more difficult to expel people from the MENAPT countries than from the countries that we, for example, are. has a lot of trade with. I know that the Minister knows, because the Minister is also responsible for Kærshovedgård, how many of these people sit and where, in the wake of other governments, the government is boxing these people back to their country of origin. So would the Minister not just acknowledge that there is a huge difference between sending an American back if he commits crime and sending one back to Somalia?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124333	Yes, there is a difference between that and, of course, we have many agreements, especially with Western countries, in a number of areas. But I must also say that the challenge we have in Denmark with people who have a background in the Middle East and North Africa and who have difficulty in integrating and who commit crime does not come out of the system of amounts, but that it comes out of the fact that there has been an excessively lenient immigration policy for many years. And that is why we have these challenges, which I do not really think we disagree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124402	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124405	Thank you. I think it is a little telling of the proposal that the government has put forward here that we have gone from discussing whether it is a big step in the right direction. I would say that our agreement is a quantum leap to discussing whether it is a small step. Now the Minister is saying that it may in fact be just a matter of moving your foot a little. In fact, I would like to admit to the Minister that with this agreement we are moving our feet a little bit. I just do not think it is a step in the right direction when it is a temporary agreement. Anything else equal can be asked, as Mr. Mads Birded did: When it is such that it is a temporary agreement that is judged not to have lasting effect, i.e. because it is only temporary, is it at all a step in the right direction, when it is at the same time so troublesome and wrinkled that it is more a symbolic act to signal that you want some foreign labour? My question to the Minister is: why is it that we do not support our agreement, which is indeed lasting, which will have a much more positive effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124509	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124510	But I simply have to say that there is something in the composition of the rapporteur's arguments that is not logical. So, are you moving in the right direction, or are you moving in the wrong direction? If there's one person on this arrangement, we've in principle moved in the right direction. Well, I can't imagine the rapporteur thinking that there's not just one person on this scheme. If there are now 1,000 on this scheme and you think it should have been 3,000, we can discuss it, because okay, that's fair enough, it's a degree difference, but we can't disagree on the direction. It lacks any internal logic. I mean, I just don't realise how it is presented by the Conservative rapporteur. Now I've forgotten the question I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124553	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124554	I would really just like to move on to the Minister's own rhetoric, because if the objective is that the more people who come here on the scheme, the better it is, i.e. that 1 is good, 2 is better, 3, 10, 100, what I know is even better, then our agreement is the one you have to vote for. That's the way it has to be. The Minister himself has just said that it is so extremely few of those who come here on the system of amounts that place society at a disadvantage. So why not support our agreement, which is a quantum leap in the right direction, if it is the Minister's view that there might just be one in relation to the government's proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124630	Well, I think it is very well known to the rapporteur that the social democracy has never been a big fan of cutting the limit too much. We already have an EU labour market that is completely open, we have a number of exemptions from the positive list, we have an amount limit and we have many other arrangements. And it's clear that if you set the limit so far down now I don't think that's what you do with your proposal that everyone can come in, then of course it leads to social dumping, and then there's a lot of new professionals who have to compete with people from all sorts of countries around the world. So we are worried about that, and that is why we cannot vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124706	The next brief remark is from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124709	Thank you. It's just because just now there was such a debate about the Danish People's Party between the Minister, the Left and New Citizens, and then I was thinking that I might just have to respond to that. So I just have to say that we in the Danish People's Party are not interested in changing the amount limit. As I said in the rapporteur's speech, we will recruit from the many unemployed who are in Denmark, and if that is not the case, there are plenty of Europeans who can come here. This is much easier than what the proposal we are discussing here or the proposal that comes from the bourgeois wing minus the Danish People's Party points out. It's just to clarify it so that we don't get paid for something we don't want.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124755	That was also very precisely how I understood the position of the Danish People's Party, and it is nice to clarify that you do not want to change the amount from the 445,000 DKK, and that shows exactly the situation that right now we have a proposal on the table. It is in this Chamber, it will be put to the vote within a while, and there is the Left and Conservatives having the opportunity to take a step in the right direction, and instead you choose to vote against it knowing that you have no prospect of voting otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124827	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Mads Birded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124831	I believe that the great political disagreement is that we consider the step taken in this agreement to be so small that it is symbolic, or perhaps even a mockery, of the problem. So many hands have been pulled out of the job offer that what you do here is too little. There is war in Ukraine, and we will also see it as a mockery if we send a gauze and a roundball bat. Something more is needed to solve the problem, and that is where we have our appeal here. So I understand that one can say that if something goes the right way, one should always back up, but can the Minister not also follow the argument that something can go so little in the right direction that one has to say that we do not want to give anyone the impression that we are really solving something that cannot be measured as a solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505124935	I understand the composition of the argument that one can somehow lose the debate on something. But I do not think that is what is at issue here. So I think that's what we're actually arguing about. After all, the level of amounts is very close to each other. We were based on the 445,000 kroner, now it is DKK 375,000, and the four bourgeois parties will then have the additional DKK 15,000. down, so I think we've gone quite far in that direction. I just do not remember a situation in which the Left has said, knowing that you cannot get your own proposal through, that you will not vote for anything that goes in the same direction as what you would like, I do not remember having experienced that here in the last seven years I have been sitting in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125028	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125030	As I tried to draw attention to in my rapporteur's speech, I do not really believe that the difference in the amount limit was the biggest knot; it was more this about whether it was a permanent arrangement so that companies could count on these employees for as long as they now think they were good employees. It was really the biggest crunch. We would probably also like to see a figure lower than DKK 360,000, and there is a big difference between that number and the Social Democratic figure. Will the Minister admit that it is more the duration of the scheme than the amount limit which is actually the greatest challenge here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125113	I have not been in the negotiating room at all, so I cannot take it from there, but I can at least say that that is what I have come to think of the Left side is a pity. But on the other hand, if I were in opposition to the Social Democratic Party and I said that I would like to have the daily allowance up by 10,000 and then the Left came and said that you could get $5,000. For two years, I think I'd take it. That's what I find difficult to see why the Left doesn't do here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125145	Thank you very much to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125157	The debate is open, and first we give the floor to Mr Beazley. Kasper Sand Kjær of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125216	Thank you for the floor. The draft law here proposes to adopt a number of amendments and adjustments to the legislation in the field of aliens and integration. This is proposed, among other things. to strengthen the fight against the use of illegal labour so that persons convicted under particularly aggravating circumstances of violating the rules of the Aliens Act concerning the employment of foreigners may be deprived of the right to participate in the management of the form of business with which they were in the management at the time of infringement of the rules. In the Social Democratic Party we want a fundamental fight with the illegal labour market. We will not accept that unscrupulous employers have rejected asylum seekers and other foreigners without legal residence employed in their company, and this is typically done under deeply problematic working and living conditions and at very low wages. After all, the proposal here follows on from the fact that, back in 2020, we tightened the penalties for companies using illegal labour. The fight against the illegal labour market has been an important focus for this government and for the Social Democracy, which already had a number of initiatives on the illegal labour market back in our 2018 foreign policy initiative. However, the draft law also contains many other essential elements, including: foreign graduates who have completed a master's degree in Denmark and who have applied for a residence permit under one of the occupational schemes on the basis of an offer of full-time employment must be given the opportunity to start their full-time work without having to wait for the case. There are a number of further proposals, for example. to abolish the possibility of extending residence permits for persons on the greencard scheme. It was, of course, an arrangement that a broad majority in this House abolished in 2016, but access to extension was not abolished in this regard and it is proposed to be done now. There is an abolition of the rock card scheme in relation to Danish education, because it has basically not worked as intended, and ensuring that more criminal aliens without legal residence can be immediately released and, finally, that Danish legislation is in line with a recent ruling by the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Savran v. Denmark. With those words, I can announce that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125440	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125444	That's what I thought. But I just have to say that this proposal is quite a kiosk, and I think it is a bad habit to mix so many proposals where there are some that are OK, but where there are also some that are really bad. It is a trend, I think, which is constantly being reinforced, and it annoys me. So I think we need an explanation as to why we do it. Is it too much to get some maybe hard things to slip down in favor of some others? I would therefore very much recommend dissecting a little more so that there may be more about doing the good things and then saying no to the bad things. I would like to ask the new minister if you have read each paragraph • whether you have reached it. There are so many good officials who can put you in a ministry. Maybe we don't have the advantage or the butt. But this is just too much, even in such a short speech by the rapporteur, I think, as the rapporteur did.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125545	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125546	It is true that there are many elements in the draft law, and it is, of course, always a reflection on how much one has to collect in one legislative proposal and how much one has to divide into different. I guess it's somehow something about the effectiveness of the people's rule in here: if we can pool some things, we can do it a little faster. Sometimes it might be better for it to be separated. In relation to the specific legislative proposal here, we can also discuss in committee whether we should look at doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125617	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125621	Thank you. I would like to continue with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard's comment. Because it's not just that it's a lot we have to go through. That is also the fact that when we have, I think, ten points in a legislative proposal, we still have only five minutes of rapporteur's speech, which means that it will be a jap job. I have to say that even the rapporteur from the government's party is not at all in depth about what this has to do with consequences. A few points are mentioned in the draft law, but they do not go into depth, and there is not much political in what the rapporteur has said. This is usually the case, and this shows that when you have to say something about so many points in such a short time as we do, it will be difficult. Having said that, I would like to ask about this greencard scheme. Because I understand that this is just an extension that exists in the legislation today. But what is the reason for removing the extension of the greencard system at a time when Danish companies are hungering for labour?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125714	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125716	To the first part: fortunately, it is not the case that the draft law alone stands and falls by whether or not I reached around all the elements. It is also clear in writing what the draft law contains. However, in order to answer that question about the greencard scheme, it was abolished in this case by a majority in 2016. After all, it has been replaced by lots of other schemes, among others. some of those we discussed before, which allow companies to attract foreign labour. So the only thing that has really been left has been the possibility for those who were already on the green card scheme for their stay to be extended. There is, after all, as part of the legislative proposal here that they can move on to the arrangements that exist today, so that a residence permit via the greencard scheme counts in the labour market relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125803	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125806	But why? Why are some people and some companies bothering people who are in work and companies who have employees? Why bother them instead of just saying that for the people who are already here, this greencard system applies until they are no longer here and people who come here in the future can discuss the new arrangements? I simply do not understand that. As far as the legal procedure is concerned, it is not just about what the Socialist rapporteur has the opportunity to say in five minutes. After all, this is also about, in some respect, what we are dealing with here, that we have to take a political position on the content of a very, very large proposal and have to make our position known in five minutes. I just think it's worth taking with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125849	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125850	Well noted, and let us discuss in committee, as I have said, whether the legislative proposal should be in its present form when it reaches third reading or whether it should be split up. I would certainly be happy to take that debate. In relation to the green card system, it is also a question of how many different arrangements we should have. After all, I think that this is also a matter for companies of having a system that is transparent and manageable. It is now a few years since we abolished the green card system, and perhaps now it is also time to move those who are on it to the existing arrangements.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125923	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mads Bird from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505125938	Thank you for the floor. It is very difficult for me to describe what this bill is about, because it is so far and it is not a proper way to put forward legislative proposals. What is here should be divided into at least four different legislative proposals so that we can have a proper political debate on all the different elements of greencard, the strengthening of the rock card system, the adaptation of the legislation to the conventions that are in force and the monitoring of foreign labour for so long. These are all important issues and we should divide this bill into four parts. As things stand, there is no way we can support this proposal. We do not understand why the bill should both deal with sanctions for the use of illegal labour as well as greencards as well as clip cards for self-supporting students, as well as the repeal of the revision clause relating to section 29c of the Aliens Act. I mean, I know that when we were in government, we made such a mess once in a while. But there you were good at talking about it, and sometimes we listened. Now it's our turn to talk about it. In the Left, we find it unacceptable for companies to exploit foreign labour and we agree that actors who undermine the rules of the labour market create unfair competition for law-abiding companies in this area. However, the sanctions proposed by the draft law are not proportionate in our view. There are already very high fines in this area. I wish we had time for a proper debate on this. For example, in agriculture, which everyone knows a Liberal always ends up talking about when he just talks long enough, there are many employees from third countries. If you make a mistake in paying your foreign labour on a farm, it will mean that a number of foreigners will be very likely to be paid the wrong salary, which in turn will mean that the farmer meets the stricter criterion and thus loses the right or may lose the right to pursue his own business. We simply do not think this is proportional. We are not going to support that part of the bill in any way, but we hope that we can split it up so that we can have a proper discussion of all these parts. On the greencard scheme, I can say that it was lifted in 2016 there was a lot of trouble with it too, although we did not vote for it. Our position has been to make the greencard system work rather than to put it to the test. But summa summarum is my message from here that we should split up this bill. Otherwise, we will not be supporting it. I hope that this will be listened to, and I look forward to having a proper look at all the many different aspects of this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505130257	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I note that there are not very many rapporteurs present in the Chamber today. It may be that that is why there are no brief comments to the rapporteur, but thanks to the rapporteur of the Left. Then I would ask the rapporteur of the Socialist People's Party to come up with the person is not here. Nor is the rapporteur of the Radical Left present in the Chamber. The rapporteur for the Enhedslisten is also absent from the Chamber. I think that is very, very problematic at first reading. I'm looking at the government and I'm thinking maybe they're thinking the same thing. On the other hand, I can see the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome to sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505130341	Thank you, President. I fully agree with the President on this issue, namely that it is a pity that the rapporteurs are not here, but in other words, a world without the support parties of the government will, of course, make life for us in the opposition even easier if it is permanent that they are not here. In relation to the bill here, as several people have pointed out, it is a mixed country trade. I fully agree with Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard that this is a pity, because there are so many different parts in what we do not have time to discuss properly. The government wants to abolish the greencard system. We agree that there have been some problems with the green card system, but why abolish it instead of trying to reform it and make it something that works? In relation to the Danish education and the rock map scheme, it was something that the Social Democratic Party supported us in introducing at the time. I fully agree that there is a Rambøll survey that says that it does not work as intended, but it is perhaps something that we • the parties that helped to introduce it should discuss before simply abolishing it. But I would like to say on the whole about the points that are here, and there you have to look at the overall effect of what lies in being positive, not least the safeguards against illegal labour. Of course, you could press the yellow button here, but we choose to look at whether to press the red button or the green button. Probably gonna push the green button. We just think that there is a lot of this that we could have discussed in more detail with the Minister before we had to take a position. That's where we're at the moment. stand. But, of course, we will have some questions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505130527	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next party in the rapporteur's series is the Danish People's Party and Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505130544	I cannot help saying at the outset that I loved the President's • what should you say about the ball, so not too much has been said. And I have to say, I'm wondering too. I really do. I do not want to say that this cannot happen to the Danish People's Party, but it has never happened to the seven-ninth court yet, but it may well fail one day. But this is where things are going, and this is where things are written down. I also feel a little provoked to back up the song given. However, as has been said, it is a mouthful of a change of law with several proposals made by the government. It has already been turned a few times that it is simply too poor that we get such a kiosk basque as I called it. Then you sit there and you think, "What do you say?" What do you say for that? What are you supposed to say against that? And what does it end with whether you vote against or against? We have to come to that. But I would urge you to take this proposal seriously, in particular. As I have said, we look with kind eyes at some of the proposals, whereas we believe, on the other hand, that we have not dared to go far enough in other areas. We believe that it is all right to be denied the right to pursue an economic activity if it is not possible to comply with the rules of the law on aliens in respect of employment. It is also a welcome tightening up if we want to shut down the green card system, which in the past has proved unworkable. Too many of the highly educated foreigners who were to benefit from the card just ended up in unskilled jobs. Finally, it is also appropriate to wish to cut off foreigners for example. war crimes from receiving return aid if they have been expelled from Denmark. Of course, they still have to leave the country as soon as possible, but we don't owe them 1 kroner. For the trouble. So far, so good. On the other hand, we in the Danish People's Party are also sceptical about other measures in the bill, where we do not believe that the government has gone far enough or is actually out in relaxation of the Aliens Act. It is suggested that foreign graduates who have been offered full-time work after completing training should be able to start in the post before the Board of International Recruitment and Integration has dealt with their case. It is a far-reaching relaxation which tends to be positive discrimination or discrimination, or whatever it is called, and we absolutely believe that the application must be finalised and approved before there can be talk of entering the Danish job market. And what does the government think will happen if you start your full-time job but then got your application rejected? It is also intended to amend the rules for the review of the expulsion of a judgment, so that an expulsion must be checked if the foreigner concerned has received a treatment on grounds of mental illness. This is also a relaxation of legislation, but a crime is therefore a crime, and it is not Denmark's job to show complacency because a foreign perpetrator has been sentenced to a treatment sentence. If you cannot behave as a foreigner in Denmark, you must travel regardless of who you are. Nor are we enthusiastic that with the amendment of the law the courts will be able to shorten the duration of the entry ban for already deported, just so that Denmark's international obligations can be respected by expulsion. We see no reason to shorten the entry ban in order to meet these obligations. Denmark has nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to keeping people out who have proved unable to join Danish society. As I have said, there are both good and bad things in this proposal, and we would very much like to call for it to be split up, and for at least the elements that are leading to the relaxation of immigration legislation to be scrapped, and instead we would be firmly committed to showing that, as a foreigner in Denmark, we are expected to behave in accordance with Danish legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505130951	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Pernille Vermund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505131004	Thank you for the floor. This bill contains a large number of amendments to the Aliens Act, and I am not going to repeat previous rapporteurs' criticism of my own criticism that so much has been piled up that has nothing to do with each other. I know that the Minister is generally in favour of dividing up legislative proposals, and we hope that will be the case here too. I will review the parts of the bill one by one and make our position on it. That's why it's gonna be a little list. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is when you pile up a lot. New citizens consider the first point of the bill, a reduction in the right to operate in certain cases in breach of the rules on employment of foreigners, to be extremely far-reaching. To punish a manager for breaking the rules on the employment of foreigners by completely denying him or her the possibility of taking part in the management of the kind of economic activity which he or she was carrying out at the time of the infringement of the law is disproportionate, not least when we know that there are quite tough and quite considerable possibilities for sanctions and penalties in this area today. If more sanctions are to be imposed, it is an opportunity, but the removal of the right to operate goes a long way. We also support the proposal to ensure a faster job start for foreign graduates and the proposal to optimise the processing and administration of the Start-up Denmark scheme. In contrast to the Danish People's Party, we do not believe that it is a relaxation of the policy of foreigners when we remove the red tape and red tape of foreigners who are already resident in Denmark and who want to enter the labour market, but who, because of the bureaucracy we have set up, cannot do so. So, of course, we support that too. Then we are opposed to shutting down the green card system altogether. We recognise that there are other arrangements, but at a time when Danish companies are screaming for labour, it seems frankly crazy to shut down the system completely. It must be the case that the people on the green card system and the companies that have people on the green card system can continue to do so as long as those people are here. And, of course, if you want to move to another arrangement, you have to be able to do so voluntarily. We are also immediately in favour of abolishing the cutting-card system. If you are a self-supporting foreigner who pays tax and is legally resident in Denmark, you should be able to receive education, including Danish education, on the same footing as other taxpayers. New citizens are opposed to relaxing the rules on the expulsion of criminal foreigners. A foreign national convicted of crime must be shown consistently and after the first sentence. It is absolutely essential that we here in the Folketing and not human rights judges in Strasbourg determine the policy of foreigners in Denmark. Because we can be chosen and chosen from, the Danes cannot do that with them. Then we generally support that religious preachers who convey extreme values and attitudes contrary to fundamental democratic values should be able to be kept out of the country. However, we also recognise that there is a risk that such a list of sanctions might eventually include people with attitudes that were not intended to sanction when the law was introduced. Who knows what's gonna happen in five or ten years? What, then, are these attitudes that are contrary to democratic standards and values from the point of view of future governments? There we want to ensure that future politicians also have a hand in how the government controls this list of sanctions, and therefore we would prefer to maintain that there is a review clause in the law and that it is then perhaps 3-5 years away. We support the proposal to amend the rules of the Return Travel Act on return aid so that foreigners excluded under Article 1 (f) of the Refugee Convention on war crimes, crimes against humanity etc. are prevented from receiving return aid. Of course they shouldn't. Finally, we support the proposed amendments to the rules of the Penal Code on immediate transmission. In the course of the committee's work, we will ask for a split of the draft law, as I began by saying, and I hope that somehow we can find some clumps where as many as possible can vote for what we are in favour of, and then we can vote against what we do not like. And then we also have a number of questions that we need to put out at second reading, particularly in relation to these two points, which concern the amendments to the rules on expulsion. These seem to be reliefs, but reliefs that are introduced to counter court rulings, which say that if we do not relax, we will completely lose the right to expel and that sounds a little turbulent when I say so, but it also seems to be described as such. And there we want to be sure what's up and down in this and whether you've gone as far as you could. We will finally take a position on the proposal when we know whether it will be split up and how it will be, but as the legislative proposal as a whole is, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505131519	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Pia Kjærsgaard, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505131525	In fact, it is not for the rapporteur, but I dare one eye. I noticed that the President moved a little when I was talking about ballet/song. Maybe it was just a statement or a sad statement. So it's more so that the President doesn't feel too intimidated by me. I didn't mean to. But I thought it was well-chosen anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505131540	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505131544	I have no comment to make on what one has of language from the platform here. I think that must be the task of the President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505131553	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. I can see that the SF rapporteur has arrived in the Chamber and is therefore to be welcomed as rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505131608	Thank you. I very much regret that I have not reached the debate; I was in the middle of a panel debate and you have been very quick in the Chamber today. But I'm glad I could at least run in and give SF's perspective on it. It has to be said that this L 189 is quite a pile of proposals. Normally I'm not so happy that you take so many different things and put it into a single bill; it's kind of a bad thing. Having said that, however, I also know that our democratic processes in this Chamber have been marked by a pandemic and, in conjunction with an otherwise busy parliamentary calendar, it has created a bit of a bottleneck. So I won't complain too much about the format. But that also means that I will concentrate on some of the major points of impact in my speech. First of all, it is sensible to strengthen the legal protection against the use of illegal labour. This is a sensible policy, because it must of course be the case that when you take a job in Denmark, it must be done on Danish pay and working conditions. In the SF, it is a matter of priority that unacceptable and greedy employer behaviour is completely stopped and that we wave goodbye forever to illegal labour and social dumping. Secondly, it is also very good that applications for Start-up Denmark are now being optimized. With our business initiative, we have created the framework for better and more sustainable conditions for entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. It is sensible that we should now set out to make the application process more flexible and more effective. Thirdly, it is not too early for the clip card for self-supporting students in Danish education to be abolished. It is a hasty and bureaucratic system that has not brought many positive things with it. Fourthly, it goes without saying that when the Court of Human Rights delivers a judgment against Denmark, it must of course be corrected. It is therefore a good thing that rules on the review of a judgment for foreigners who have been convicted of a measure should be changed. Nor can I completely refrain from the temptation to point out that one could only have listened a little to the warnings when the rules were changed. Although I had hoped for it, I believe that it can be too much to hope that it will take place in the future, just as I am critical of the fact that it is clear that the proposal here only meets the absolute minimum of what one is obliged to do. Last but not least, there is also part of this proposal which deals with the list of sanctions and attention, which is also known as the Imam list. When there was a debate on this, the SF was very active in it, because it is extremely important for us to distance ourselves from the extreme Islamism that, among other things, is. is, and some of the grotesque remarks we have received and heard from reactionary imams over time. So this has been an important debate for us. But when this was discussed where Holger K. Nielsen was the SF's rapporteur, one also ended up in a situation where one voted against the whole, because there were some elements about it that one is antidemocratic, as a parameter and also the whole idea of making a list that we were nervous about. Because it can almost be such an inspirational list for extreme Islamists of who you can then listen to if you fall into that category. That is why we are a little critical of lifting the sunset clause, which is also contained in the proposal, because we ultimately voted against it, and we would therefore like to see the proposal split up. If we can divide up the proposal so that we can vote against the part that we also voted against when it was introduced, then we intend to vote in favour of the legislative proposal. So I hope we can split it up. That's what I had. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505131949	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin and the Socialist People's Party. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and I note that all the rapporteurs who wanted to speak on this matter have had it, and then I can give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505132011	Thank you, and thank you for the floor. In the bill, the government proposes a number of amendments to the Aliens Act, including: Law on Danish education for adult foreigners, the Return Travel Act and the Law on the Enforcement of Punishment. Firstly, the draft law contains a proposal to restrict the right to operate as part of the government's action against the illegal labour market. We will not accept that people are cynically exploited and that ordinary Danish employees are being trampled underfoot, and therefore the government wants to crack down on the abuse of illegal foreign labour. You can now be punished by a fine or prison sentence for violating the rules of the Aliens Act, and we propose that you should also be able to deny the right to participate in the management of the type of company where you employ illegal labour, and that should also be done if, under particularly aggravating circumstances, you violate the rules of the Aliens Act on foreign labour. The right of withdrawal must be open to the courts in the more serious cases of infringement, e.g.: which repeatedly and intentionally violates the rules. The bill also contains a proposal for a rapid job start for foreign graduates. This means that foreign graduates who have completed a Master's degree programme in Denmark and stand with a job offer in hand and comply with the conditions of one of the occupational schemes can start in the job immediately without waiting for the case in SIRI. In 2016, a majority in the Folketing decided to repeal the greencard scheme, which was introduced in 2007. The system was abolished because, among other things, it was abolished. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a good idea for the Commission to take a decision on this matter, and I think it is a good idea for the Council to take a decision on this matter. We propose that the lifting of the possibility of extension should take effect from 1 April 2024. The bill then contains a proposal for an optimisation of the processing and administration of the Start-up Denmark scheme, which allows international entrepreneurs to apply for a residence permit in Denmark in order to start a company that can create growth and employment in Denmark. Optimization of the scheme will take place in particular: to facilitate the collection of data on applicants in order to verify their information and to provide additional possibilities for rejecting applications with significant deficiencies. The change in Start-up Denmark has neither an impact on which entrepreneurs can come to Denmark nor how many. The draft law also provides for the removal of the clip card for self-employed trainees in a Danish education, as the scheme has proved difficult to administer in practice, and the scheme is no longer considered to have a significant or independent behavioural control effect. In the light of a recent ruling by the European Court of Human Rights, it is proposed to amend the rules on the mandatory review of the expulsion in order to ensure that the courts carry out an adequate review of the expulsion when a foreigner sentenced to detention or detention is discharged from hospital or custody. It is also proposed to amend the rules for the review of a judgment by substantial changes in the situation of the alien so as to clarify in the legislation when a review should take place. The draft law also provides for an express legal basis enabling the courts to reduce the duration of the entry ban granted at the time of the original expulsion, so that the duration of an entry ban does not prevent a expulsion from Denmark from being maintained within the framework of Denmark's international obligations. It also provides for a change in the rules of the Return Travel Act with a view to preventing foreign nationals excluded under Article 1 F of the Refugee Convention on War Crimes, Crimes against Humanity, etc. from receiving return assistance, and provides for amendments to the rules of the Penal Code on immediate broadcasts in order to correct some unintended irregularities. Finally, the draft law provides for the repeal of the revision clause introduced in connection with the introduction of the national list of sanctions, which means that the list of sanctions will continue unchanged. So I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments, and the government has, of course, but I have not had such an impact on the way this proposal goes through the system, but I do share the concern that it may be quite large. What has been explained to me is that a number of judgments have been made late in the session and that it should be adopted before the summer, among other things. in order to ensure that people can be expelled and the expulsions that are taking place, and that is why we have packed this as much as it is, but of course I am listening to that concern. Now, sir. Mads Birded isn't here, but I'm sure that if I trade places with Mr. Mads Birded, probably should be the first to say that you should not pack them as much as he does now, and I think that is a perfectly natural and healthy part of the way we deal with things here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505132459	Thank you, Minister. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the Minister, and it is from Mr Van den Broek. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505132504	Now I am not quite sure that I heard the Minister correctly, but at least there is a desire from a wide range of parties here in the Danish Parliament, including from the SF, to split up this bill, and I hope the Minister will be sensitive to that. Because, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, there are parts that I think we can support, but there are among others. I think that is a great deal where we can't at least do it. If you look at the consultation answer from Agriculture & Food, you can see that a farmer is simply in danger of losing the right to farm in certain cases, and we think that is a very, very harsh sanction. So we hope that the Minister will listen and share this as much as possible according to the wishes of the parties here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505132543	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505132544	Yeah, that was quite right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505132555	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505132604	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505132624	This bill proposes to ensure the legal basis for the award of Danish citizenship to 1,393 persons. In the Social Democratic Party we believe that people who have done their duty and lived up to the conditions should, of course, be granted Danish citizenship. That is why we must congratulate all those who are listed in this bill and warmly welcome in our community. We make high demands on people who want to be part of our community, because it is absolutely crucial that you as a newcomer in Denmark are able to show that you actively want to be a part of Denmark. This is done, for example, by learning Danish, by getting a job and becoming self-supporting and by supporting our fundamental Danish and democratic values. Against this background, it is very important that we have a set of strict and very clear rules in the area of citizenship, so there is no doubt about what we in the Danish Parliament expect from those who want to become Danish citizens. And then it is not everyone who can acquire Danish citizenship, but only those who have shown diligence and willingness to become part of our lovely country. Against this background, I should like to inform you that the Social Democrats support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505132732	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Morten Dahlin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505132740	Thank you for that, President. Danish citizenship is something very special. It is something unique, and therefore it is not something you per. We must have the right to do so automatically, because Danish citizenship is not a right. It's a gift, but a gift to earn. Perhaps the one who in Danish history has described it about Danishness, Denmark and the Danish people best, in fact Grundtvig, who is in the middle of the 1800s said: "To one people they all hear,/as they count themselves there,/have for the mother tongue ear,/have for the homeland fire." What Grundtvig did there, which was actually quite wise, both written and said, was that he established that Denmark and the Danish people were actually a real thing. Well, Denmark wasn't just a random spot on the map. He also said very clearly that the Danish people are actually something one can become a part of, even if one was not born a Dane in Denmark. And then he added that, of course, as a society, we also have the opportunity to make demands, for example, that we should have an ear for the mother tongue, that we should be able to speak Danish, and that we should have a fire for the homeland, that we should accept the fundamental values of our society. It was wisely written by Grundtvig, and in fact it is the principle that has guided the policy pursued by the Left, both in the area of citizenship and in the field of foreigners up to today. So what Grundtvig wrote back in the middle of the 1800s was wise, and therefore we also support that it is made cash demands for those who want to become part of the Danish family. You have to be able to speak, you have to stay on the right side of the law, you have to be in employment, you have to contribute to society, and you have to meet a number, we think, fair and clear requirements, if you have the desire to come down to the municipal office and get the red beet passport. That is why last year we also helped to reach an agreement with the government, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party on new rules for obtaining Danish citizenship. It is an agreement that we in the Left were happy about; we are, in fact, still away from it. Of course, we had wishes in the negotiations for an even better result, for example. a conversation-based model, which the former minister rejected several times. It may be that the new Minister for Foreign Affairs is more positive; I hope so. But it was an agreement with clear left prints, for example that the birth test now contains a clear and clear focus on Danish values. What we are discussing today is then a legislative proposal in which virtually all the people who have been included in the bill have been included in accordance with the new rules, and that is a good thing, because, as I said, we are in favour of being able to become part of the Danish people, but at the same time we must make demands if we want to be. But if you then meet those requirements, yes, we also think that Danish citizenship should be granted. To turn these people into Danish, we then take one step closer by first examining the bill today, and so on behalf of the Left, I would like to congratulate those who are now one step closer to being able to call themselves Danes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505133118	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no requests for short remarks to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Carl Valentin. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505133130	Thank you. Sometimes it can beat you how one on paper quite ordinary spring day in May isn't just so trivial and normal anyway, because this day isn't. On the contrary, it is a day of joy for the many people who acquire citizenship in Denmark, and for those of us who already have Danish citizenship, because our community is now enriched with top-motivated people who have worked hard to get here. That is why I would also like to start by congratulating the many who now fully deserve Danish citizenship. I can only imagine how these people have worked and probably looked forward to this great day. I know that the way into the Danish community is a long and often demanding task, and many of the more than 1,400 people who are now being given citizenship know that I have worked hard to meet some tough and tough demands that a majority of the parties here at Christiansborg have made. With diligence and enthusiasm, people have learned the Danish language, learned about Danish history, Danish culture, actively participated in society and passed the citizenship test. Great respect from here to all the people who have spent time and effort, as it takes to become part of the Danish community, and how happy it is for all of us. But it is of course particularly pleasing for the many people who now acquire Danish citizenship, because Denmark is a really nice country to be a citizen of. The Socialist People's Party will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505133321	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Susan Kronborg. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505133330	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to congratulate those women, men and children who have met all the difficult demands and have now come to the bill. This will also give us reason to consider the legal situation. As you know, this new agreement on citizenship, which was concluded last year, contains a division of applicants, approved applicants, into groups of countries, which means that approved applicants coming from Muslim countries have been separated separately. After all, when this agreement was concluded, we have also known that the agreement on citizenship is a launch ramp for a possible amendment, which then puts Muslim applicants in their own legislative proposal, which in consequence means that we risk somebody voting down the split bill, which contains only Muslim applicants. It is then a problem because Article 5 of the Convention on Civil Liberties states that citizenship must not be determined on the basis of sex, religion, race, skin colour, national or ethnic origin, and the lawyers of the Ministry have themselves considered that the State can actually incur liability by dividing the bill on the declaration of birth by countries or territories, and that is to say, it is provided that a majority consistently votes against legislative proposals with applicants from MENAP countries. These people will therefore be able to raise a claim for damages against Denmark in order to act in breach of Denmark's international obligations. We in the Radical Left are, of course, appalled by the actual agreement on citizenship, and we continue to work to ensure that the principles of law and the conventions that we ourselves have concluded are respected. We do not believe that taxpayers should be bothered to pay compensation through the common fund. Finally, I would like to add that, unfortunately, there is a clean-up work which I am somewhat disappointed by the Minister's failure to do. There is no justification for refusal pursuant to Article 11 of the Convention on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, and this also applies to refusal by the Committee on the Rights of Citizens. The Minister knows that the committee is voting against candidates on the grounds of their religion or country of origin, and that is in breach of Article 5, and the Minister knows that in the event of a refusal by the Birth Court or the Committee, it is not in all cases informed of the referral to the Committee on the Law of the Sea or of the possibility of recourse to ordinary courts. So the question is, of course, whether the Minister acts under Section 7 of the Administrative Act on the obligation to provide guidance or, in general, cares about the Administrative Act. Then I have to remind the Minister of something. After all, it has become apparent that when a majority changes in a parliamentary election, a majority can suddenly emerge which is concerned with compliance with the administrative law. But at least congratulations to those who are now actually authorised applicants for citizenship under this bill, and of course we support the declaration of citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505133715	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Pernille Skipper. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505133724	I am a completely new rapporteur in this area, just as the Minister is brand new, so this is the first time I have been allowed to stand here and congratulate the citizenship of the many people on this bill. I am truly proud and glad that I have been allowed to do so. As Mr. Carl Valentin said it is an important day for the many people, and I look forward to it not being long before we have to press the green button and then it will be completely final. I think it's gonna be a sigh of relief, so small you can hear a lot of places around the country. For too many of you who are on this bill, the way here has been too long and too difficult and full of trip threads, and therefore it really needs to be struck under the great congratulations. After all, the debate on citizenship is basically a question of democracy and what one considers a democracy to be. A very large group of citizens in Denmark do not have citizenship, although they live here and have lived here for many years, perhaps several decades, yes, perhaps their whole lives, even if they pay their taxes, even if they are on the parental board, when they go to handball in the hall with all of us, trade in the same places as all of us and must grow old in the same nursing homes as all of us, they are not full members with the right to influence our society as well. There are several rapporteurs who have said this before. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen said: Welcome to the community. It's understood that until today you weren't there. Sir. Morten Dahlin said that now you become a part of the Danish people, and it is understood that you are not a part of it when you live here without citizenship. That says a lot about what this means. I do not believe that one becomes a good citizen, a good contributor to the community of being able to quote Olsen gang films in citizenship tests or to shake hands with mayors. One becomes a full, democratic member of a society, a citizen if one lives, lives and grows up in a country where one can also see and feel that freedom and democracy apply in practice to all, not just to some. We talk a lot about Danish values in here, especially when it comes to citizenship, but it's a bit difficult to practice it. The foundation for democracy is that rights are objective, they apply to everyone, whether they are people you like or not, whether you agree with them or not, and it is therefore shameful to hear how more and more votes in the debate on citizenship consider it a noble gift, and that it is quite okay that there is a political balance behind who is now worthy and who is not worthy, who is right and who is wrong. I have always known that the process was that way, and becoming a new rapporteur for citizenship rekindles some of the outrage about what it is like, how crazy it really is that one can seek a derogation, and this is also emphasised in the latest agreement on citizenship, that one can always apply for a derogation. But if you get a fine or something happens in their lives, you have to go out and literally suck up a bunch of members of parliament to see if you can convince them that you have a second chance and whether you should be allowed to be a member of the society that you otherwise live and live and are in and have the same rights as everyone else has. Then your future, your opportunity for something as crucial as voting for parliamentary elections will suddenly be determined by whether Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen has had his morning coffee or not and is therefore either in a good or a bad mood. The number of citizens in this country, without full rights, should not increase, because it will not provide a coherent society, it will provide an A and B team, it will receive the opposite of its integration with alienation. But I would like to say once again to all of you who have achieved this citizenship a resounding congratulations. It is very, very heartfelt, and I also hope that you will use your new profession's right to vote also to ensure that we hopefully one day go somewhere where a little more are allowed to be full members and influence our Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134158	Thank you to the rapporteur. I would also like to remind you of the use of direct speech, even when it comes to a group that does not participate in the debate, because there is no direct speech to be used either. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. It's for mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134211	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and welcome to the area of citizenship. In the rapporteur's speech, there is a great deal of criticism that there is a political element in making people Danish citizens. But it's an offshoot of the Constitution. It is, in effect, in the Constitution that citizenship is granted by law. After all, the structure of the Committee on Birth Rights has existed since the first chairman of the Committee on Births sat in the chair. It was Grundtvig, by the way. So it is an honorable Danish tradition and, by the way, also a constitutional process, how to grant citizenship. Therefore, it might be interesting to ask whether Enhedslisten is in favour that citizenship is not something to be granted by law, but just something to be done per. automatic. That was question one. Question two is whether Enhedslisten believes that one can commit a crime as a foreigner in Denmark, which is so violent that one should be excluded from ever being able to obtain Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134312-2	I think it is crucial that when it is decided whether or not citizenship is granted, it is done on the basis of objective criteria, just like any other function of Danish society, any other decision, that is to say, that it is equal for everyone. And what is the problem with the process in here is that these are not entirely objective criteria, although there are some agreements about what you are looking at and what you are not looking at. We have also seen several examples in full public debate where members of the Folketing have expressed that yes, that is, for example. determine what religion a person has. That is not an objective criterion. I find that shameful. And yes, I can see that there may be things that make it possible to be excluded from citizenship. What is important is that these are objective criteria.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134401	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134402	Thank you for your answer. Does the rapporteur, and does the Enhedslisten think that if a foreigner comes to Denmark and commits one of the most violent crimes one can imagine, in other words a rape, he should still be able to become a Danish citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134423-2	As I said, I do not think that you should have access to Danish citizenship, no matter what crime you commit. I believe that there can easily be a requirement of good character. The Enhedslisten is working to make it significantly easier than the current rules, but we do not have a set of rules in the drawer that we hope for, Mr President. Morten Dahlin will be able to be convinced. We are working to make it easier, including for some of the citizens who have committed smaller forms of crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134453	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134457	Thank you. Welcome to the rapporteur. I think it's a bit nasty to say that you get citizenship, depending on which coffee I drink now I drink tea, but it doesn't matter. But I actually spend a lot of time reading those cases. The rapporteur will find that there is an enormous amount of literature in it. And that in the Social Democratic Party one can have an opinion on what should be dispensed for in relation to crime, I think that is quite fair. I would also like to say that I do not think it is right for the rapporteur to say that, in order to become a Dane, it depends on whether you know anything about the Olsen gang, because the rapporteur knows very well that if there is anything about the Olsen gang, it is because you have to be able to decode it; and if you get a booklet to read, it is to show if you can speak Danish. So it has nothing to do with getting up in some questions about the Olsen gang; it is something about reading a text and then showing that you can understand it. I believe that this contributes to more division than is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134540-2	I am pleased to hear that the Social Democrats believe that, first of all, a lot of time is spent on individual matters and, secondly, that they are trying to do so on the basis of transparent, objective requirements. The problem is that citizens outside can't see through it. You can't know what it is that decides. It is impossible to see through because it is up to the opinions of some individual Members of Parliament in a closed committee. I regret to the rapporteur if I got too rough or too lazy, but nevertheless it is an opaque system which requires a certain amount of luck, to put it mildly, in order to get a derogation. I do not believe that the citizenship tests that are being carried out are an expression of Danishism or anything else. Despite my upbringing here with the roots of Jutland and all sorts of other and long education, I can find myself having trouble getting crabs across the border in those citizenship tests every year. I do not think it is an expression of Danishism.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134643	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134644	No, it wasn't because I was so offended that way, but this is something you spend a lot of time on, so it's not about coffee. And I actually think it is fair enough that you have different views about why it is that you should grant dispensation. After all, it is people who are granted derogations that we are talking about; they are not the general rules, because they are quite clear, I think. When the rapporteur says that she cannot take that test herself, it is because the rapporteur assumes that it is taken online. Can the rapporteur not confirm that when you have to answer these questions, there is a booklet next to it that you can read, so you actually get these questions because you have to show that you can talk and understand Danish, which is fair enough when you are going to be a Danish citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134719	Nor am I opposed to having some sort of language requirement, but there is also. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen can then interpret the purpose of the citizenship test, as Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen will, but that does not change the fact that there are also questions in the test, which should be an expression of Danish values and everything else. And then I have to correct sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. In other words, the objective criteria lie in applications. In relation to the derogation cases, it is not the case that you can see exactly what it is that is needed to obtain a derogation. This area is completely and markedly different from all other administration, because it is within the power of the parliamentary political majority and not in objective criteria to decide who gets a derogation or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134802	The next brief remark is from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134805	Thank you so much. This was actually something that the rapporteur said or, in fact, not Morten Dahlin. I would actually like to follow up on that, because the rapporteur says in conclusion that there are some minor phenomena that should not exclude one from obtaining citizenship. If the rapporteur thinks that the Enhedslisten is in fact of the opinion that, for example: rape is a hard enough idea to lose the right to citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134838	About rape is a tough enough offense. I have it as a starting point that we should be treated the same as citizens of this society. That means, of course, that if you commit a crime, including terrible crimes, you have to be charged, prosecuted and in court where an independent judge or jury decides whether you are guilty or not. Then you have to have your punishment, and then you have to do your time. And when you're done serving your sentence, you're like every other citizen. That is the starting point. Can one then say that there is something so terrible that one could imagine that it would exclude someone forever? Yeah, maybe you can. We have not set the limit in a precise place, but our starting point is clearly that you must have the same penalty as everyone else in the same situation, and thus the requirement of good repute must be set very high.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134932	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505134933	I still do not think the rapporteur really answers it, because it is actually a very simple question. I fully agree with the rapporteur when he says this: there must be some concerns which, of course, mean that you lose your right forever, because this is not just about criminal foreigners and in New Citizens we want to throw out criminal foreigners consistently and after the first sentence. But now we are talking about citizenship and that we should give someone the finest gift we can give here in Denmark. Does Enhedslisten believe that rape is such a crime that it should make it possible to never get citizenship yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505135003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505135004	The clear starting point of the Enhedslisten is that one should be treated equally before the law. This is how we believe, possibly in contrast to the new citizens, that it should operate in a democratic society. And that means that everyone must have the same punishment for the same crime and must have the same court process. This also means that we are not in favour of double sentences as a starting point. Can you imagine very, very serious crimes that would exclude people from citizenship? Perhaps you can, yes, or a waiting period, yes. But we are working consistently to relax the rules of crime that a majority of Parliament has set up today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505135043	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper and the Enhedslisten. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505135052	Thank you, President. This six-monthly debate on the granting of citizenship is one of my favourite debates, if you can put it that way, because on the one hand I am so delighted and would like to congratulate the very many on this bill, which has taken Denmark to heart, which speaks very fine Danish, which has established itself, and for whom Denmark is now their home country But at the same time, on the other hand, unfortunately, there are a lot of people on this list over and over again, about which I am concerned, and which I would like to question very much whether should be on this list. Now, of course, we have a new minister in this area, and I hope that the Minister will read the very good agreement made by the Social Democracy, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives last April, with a lot of improvements in relation to the rules of citizenship. Of course, it is only the basic law that dictates who can acquire citizenship in Denmark, and it is only a majority here in the Danish Parliament who can give it, but of course we set up guidelines in the form of a circular which is not a law, but a circular for who can apply. For as the Left says: Danish citizenship is a gift. It's not a dish. However, there is such a bit of a problem with regard to the legislative proposal we are dealing with right now, and with the agreement we made last April, that because of the fact that there is a year and a half of processing time, those who live up to the agreement we made actually come to me early in the autumn. In other words, many of those who are on this bill do not comply with the agreement we reached. Among other things: That is why, in the last two legislative proposals, a number of people have committed what we believe to be serious crime. They shouldn't be on the bill. Therefore, the last two times since the agreement we have voted yellow, the new rules only, let us say indirectly, enter into force in the autumn. That is why we have put a number of questions to the Minister about how many of them have committed crime on this bill. We have only just received that statement a few days ago, and I just managed to run it through quickly. There are therefore people on the bill here who have been convicted of theft, weapons, breaches of the restaurant law, sentences for heeling and theft. So again, I think that there are too many people on this bill who have committed crime, and some of them, without first having had a career period where you could not then apply for Danish citizenship. We find that worrying. So we lean a lot against voting yellow again. We have tried to avoid voting yellow by saying to the former minister: if we can get the cases that we think are worrying into committee and then vote on them individually there of course in confidence... just as we already vote on hundreds, hundreds of derogations cases, it could actually be an opportunity for us in the Assembly hall to vote yes, when it is the case that we in committee have first had the opportunity to vote no. For there we are right into the constitution: it is a majority of the Folketing that has to vote in favour. So giving individual voting in committee could be a way to a yes, but we will then talk to the Minister about that. We think that could be a very good compromise. Basically, we believe that we in the committee should vote on all matters. The government and the majority did not support this, but if we could just vote on the cases we find extremely problematic, especially with people who have committed crime, we think it could be a compromise, as I said. So again a great congratulations to all of you who have truly taken Denmark to heart. And for those of you who haven't, we wish we could say no. And then a brief reminder to the Minister: the Minister's predecessor has promised the parties to the agreement behind the new agreement a review with some minor adjustments, and we hope that the Minister will convene negotiations as soon as possible, because then we will be able to make a good deal even better. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505135502	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Just as I pointed out to Enhedslisten's rapporteur, the same rules apply to the use of direct charges to groups without Marcus Knuth Sorry). That's the way it is. It's hard, but it can work. Marcus Knuth I hope I learn one day). Of course. Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Søren Espersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505135524	Thank you. I too would like to begin by congratulating those who have acquired Danish citizenship. They have, of course, searched for the criteria we have • although we do not entirely agree on how this is done. The draft law here specifically concerns the granting of citizenship to a large number of people, but first of all I would like to point out that citizenship is never a right. In our view, citizenship is a privilege and must only be communicated to people who prove worthy of the gift of Danish citizenship and who are already to be regarded as part of the Danish community. The bill here includes about 1,300 adults and nearly 500 children who will be born with their parents. That's too many. As a legislator, I am unhappy that it is not possible for me to control all those who stand to gain citizenship. That was actually the intention of the constitutionalists, but I am now being deprived of it as a member of parliament. It's crooked. Of the persons covered, a significant number are from the so-called MENAPT countries, i.e. from Middle Eastern and North African countries, plus Turkey, countries of the Islamic world. The group also includes stateless persons, in addition to those from the MENAPT countries. In the Danish People's Party, we are not in favour of throwing out citizenship to the right and left, including to the many with Islamic backgrounds. We do not want an Islamisation of Denmark, and on that basis we want a ceiling on the number of people who acquire citizenship in Denmark. That is why we want to know at the same time whether some of the citizens who are seeking from Western countries really have a MEAPT background. You may have a Swedish passport, but you can be an immigrant from the Middle East. It is relevant to be informed. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the fact that the draft law has been drafted in such a way that applicants are grouped from the countries from which they come. That's good. And we need more of that. However, since we in the Danish People's Party want to prevent Denmark from being Islamised and because the bill contains an excessive number of applicants, which we as legislators are unable to control, we cannot support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505135736	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505135741	Even on a lovely sunny spring day like today, the bill we are dealing with can destroy even the best mood. Because it is today that we are dealing with the politically determined mass allocation of citizenship. It is a great mix of people who deserve it and a great deal that should never have it. Unfortunately, there is a little political laziness when it comes to the granting of citizenship. In the spirit of the constitution, of course, we should talk to each individual as a committee for citizenship, and here they must be chosen from the Muslim countries, which we know are over-represented in crime statistics, of course, from a start. You have to meet the same strict criteria that are in the circular today, but in addition, the best qualified should come to an interview. This would give us the best opportunity to select the good people who actually deserve to become Danish citizens. This would automatically reduce the number to around 200-300 per year. years, but unfortunately that is not the case today. Today, citizenship is given in a turn, blindfolded and like a big pile of weddings. It's really sad. Since the landscaping law in 1983, over 253,226 citizenships and many of them have been distributed to people who should never have had it, and this bill unfortunately continues with it. Here, 1,393 persons and 490 persons are granted citizenship. Together, it's 255,109 people. In addition, citizenship comes to the children of foreigners who are not included in the figures of Statistics Denmark. It's pretty crazy. The parties in this Chamber who are going to vote in favour of this bill should know that almost one in four who were convicted of rape in Denmark in 2020 were foreign citizens, which is a strong over-representation. MENAPT women and descendants account for 2%. of the population of working age, but in the statistics of persons who have received cash benefits without interruption for 10 years or more, they represent 20 per cent. Although non-Western descendants with Danish citizenship are only 2.8%. of the population, they account for 25.3% of the population. by all registered gang members in 2020. Male nonwestern descendants commit almost one and a half times more crime than the average of all men in the population. And I could go on. This bill, which we are now discussing, has a total of 341 for the so-called MENAP countries, and from the Muslim countries with which we have the worst experience, there are 45 from Turkey, 70 from Pakistan, 31 from Iraq, 31 from Afghanistan, 31 from Iran, 16 from Somalia, 12 from Morocco, 11 from Syria and 82 stateless persons. I'm afraid the slide will continue. There are a large number of foreigners with whom we have poor experience, who have acquired and continue to acquire Danish citizenship. In New Citizens we do not believe that Danish citizenship should be given to immigrants or descendants from Muslim countries where we know that immigrants and their descendants commit crime much more often than the Danes when they come here. We do not believe that Danish citizenship should be granted laxly, but with care, and to many fewer than is given today. It should only be for the few who have really earned it. We believe that if you commit crime and get an unconditional sentence of liberty, you should have taken away your Danish citizenship. This is an important part of the task that we have undertaken, namely to resolve foreign policy from the bottom up. So on this lovely sunny day we in New Citizens are, of course, once again watching Denmark. It is our duty and it is our responsibility to ensure that Denmark is also Danish in 100 years' time. We owe it to our children and grandchildren. That is why, of course, we are voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140201	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no brief comment on the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Green Group. Welcome to Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140227	Thank you. A great congratulations to the new Danes from the Free Greens. Most people may have felt Danish for a long time, and some for life, but now the state also recognises you as Danes as finally full members of the community. This means that our new citizens can finally participate in democracy and vote in the parliamentary elections. This means that you can drive a car calmly, because a speeding ticket will not mean that the whole future is ruined. But drive carefully anyway. It is a day of democracy today with more inclusion and more representation, and it is something that we in the Free Greens are fighting for. Just yesterday we had two proposals about inclusion and representation in our democracy. We know that it has not been easy to obtain Danish citizenship. You have to live up to an incredible number of demands. You cannot make mistakes and you must constantly keep an eye on new rules that are updated and adopted in here. It may not have been a pleasant process to have been through, and many more should actually have been born. But after a long fight, every new citizen who came through the needle's eye deserves a great deal of congratulations. Our new citizens came to an end despite all the obstacles that were put up in their path. But even though we are celebrating new citizens today, there is also a grey cloud that moves across the clear sky, namely the handshake ceremony. For Danish citizens, in order for them to have citizenship, they must first go through a ceremony to be officially Danes. As a final test at the last step at the top of the pyramid, new citizens must be demeaned: they must be forced to shake hands with a mayor, typically of the opposite sex, and if you do not want to shake hands, you cannot acquire citizenship. With such a test one would think that all applicants who have sought citizenship in a free and democratic society have rather sought in a society characterized by what might be called mind control, so I hope we can change that soon. Our new citizens need to know that they have become part of an enlightened, democratic and tolerant society, and I actually thought we agreed on that. Once again congratulations and welcome to the new Danes. Free Greens hope that our new citizens, with all the many competences they have, will help to make our society even better. Free Greens support the communication.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140519	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and that is first from Mrs Mette Thiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140525	Thank you so much. Now I understand from the rapporteur from the Green Group that it is very terrible if one is to shake hands with one of the opposite sex. So it is actually a simple question from this point of view: does the Greens support gender equality? So, Free Greens think that women and men are worth equally?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140544	We're quite clear on that. This is really about men not wanting to shake hands with women and women not wanting to shake hands with men. So it has nothing to do with equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140556	Mrs. Mette Thiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140557	Yes, it has everything to do with equality, because what is the reason why you don't want to shake hands as a man to a woman or as a woman to a man? It is a quite simple question if you are in favour of gender equality. If you do that in the Free Greens, this cannot possibly be a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140616	We are clearly in favour of equality, and I do not recognise those premises at all. You can greet each other in many other ways, and why should it be in one way?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140625	The next brief remark is to Mr. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140628	I am not sure, but did I hear the rapporteur from the Green Group say that it is degrading that a handshake should be given as part of the process to obtain Danish citizenship? As the last thing before you get Danish citizenship, you shake hands with, for example. His mayor. Does the rapporteur really believe that handshaking, which is one of the most normal in Danish culture, is it to congratulate or welcome here or welcome to the workplace; how good is it to have you here is degrading?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140700	I think so. I think that we should recognise diversity and whether we salute by shaking hands or by some other way, I really do not think that matters. It has it for those whom it is very concerned about, but for the rest of us, I think it could be of no importance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140716	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140718	I fully agree that in certain parts of Muslim culture in Islamist society a woman, oh no, must not shake hands with a man, but it is not the case that it is in Danish society. After all, we are a free society in which men and women are equal, and handshaking is part of Danish culture, and the rapporteur calls that so degrading. So the rapporteur believes that the handshake of Danish culture should be phased out? Does the rapporteur really think that in a very serious way?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140743	I believe that we must give room for diversity and diversity. Whether you greet each other in one way or in another way, I really do not care as long as you acknowledge each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140755	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As far as I can see, all the rapporteurs who wanted to take part in this debate have spoken, and I can give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140811	Thank you. And thank you for today's debate on the communication of citizenship, where it is proposed that 1,393 people be granted Danish citizenship. It is, of course, something very special to acquire a Danish citizenship, and this is primarily due to the fact that the granting of Danish citizenship is a great declaration of confidence from Danish society. It is therefore quite reasonable that we should also make a number of demands on those who want to have it. In this context, I would like to stress that the persons acting on this bill meet the many requirements laid down by a majority of the Folketing and they have been granted an exemption from one or more of these requirements if they do not. This bill includes 1,253 persons who are required to attend a constitutional ceremony. I hope that the 1,253 people will have a memorable day when they take part in the constitutional ceremony in their home municipalities, and that they, like the other 140 applicants who are included in the bill, will be happy and proud fellow citizens who take part in Denmark and uphold our fundamental Danish values. In those words, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the debate. I look forward to further discussion here in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140935	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, and first it is Mr. Morten Dahlin, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505140940	Thank you to the Minister for the speech and congratulations on the new ministry. One of the elements of the agreement concluded last year on new rules of citizenship was that the parties to the agreement should put themselves together and look at how to make the documentation requirement in cases of citizenship certificates from Danes born abroad more flexible. This is because, unfortunately, we are increasingly experiencing that there are Danes who go abroad and work.It is positive both for the public sector and for honorable Danish companies and then they have children while they are abroad, and this can later cause problems in finding this birth certificate. We have been to a single meeting of the Ministry where the former minister did not really have a solution to this matter. Will the Minister not confirm here today that we are being called to a meeting before the summer holidays so that we can actually find a solution to this problem for the many people who go out into the world and work for our country, have children while they are out there and come home so that the children do not get stuck?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141042	I'd like to confirm that you will be summoned to a meeting, and I will certainly do whatever I can to ensure that it is before the summer break.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141049	Sir. Morten Dahlin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141051	Thank you. I'm glad. One thing that unfortunately was not included in the agreement was the proposal that several parties, including the Left, had to look at a more conversational model compared to those applying for Danish citizenship. It is, of course, a proposal which the former minister has rejected with some, I do not think, very convincing arguments. Can those of us who are in favour of such a model expect greater support from the new minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141116	No, I must perhaps disappoint and say that I am endeavouring in everything I do to be exactly on the same line as the former minister, not necessarily in terms of procedures and cooperation in the Folketing, but in terms of political content. I would, of course, like to look at it, and I am always open to discussion. I do not know the content of the interview-based model on a stand-by basis here on the platform, but I will of course read that out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141141	The next brief remark to Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141145	Thank you. I would like to begin with again: now I have done so many times to congratulate the Minister on the new ministerial post, because just exactly citizenship is probably one of the most important areas of foreign policy, so who becomes a Danish citizen? And when we look back in history, we've been very, very naive, I think the minister is very much in agreement. The Minister is aware of all the problems there are, with clans on Motalavej, where deep criminal groups over time have acquired Danish citizenship. We have made that right along the way. But when you do, for example... Looking at this bill, we still look away, among other things. because there are some trivial limits in the penal code that people can commit extensive theft over and over and over and still away flying just below the radar, so that it does not even trigger a waiting period. I'm not gonna take that with the minister now, but at least like Mr. Knox. Morten Dahlin calls for the Minister to call as soon as possible the discussions on small adjustments to the agreement that we had in store with the Minister's predecessor we will look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141249	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141250	Well, I would also like to say that I myself was a student helper here at Christiansborg many years ago, and there I also sometimes sat and read the lists that were then in a 14-year perspective. At that time there was a much greater imbalance in what countries the people who acquired citizenship came from. Now I think we are hitting a better balance in relation to the interaction that exists between Denmark and the world. And I agree that there has been a period when it has been too straightforward on several fronts. I think it is a good thing that we have tightened it up, because, just as we need to be tough with residence permits and asylum allocation etc., we also need to be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141335	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141336	Then I would like to follow up on what the Minister said earlier, namely that the Minister is planning to follow exactly the same line as his predecessor. It may sound like it's just going to be a no to everything, but the former Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration actually helped open up a whole new negotiation of the agreement here, and he also opened up some sensible adjustments. So I really just hope that the Minister will continue as his predecessor and have an open mind on if not all the proposals we make will actually look with objective glasses on whether there is something that can be corrected and not afraid of making adjustments. This is certainly very important to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141411	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141412	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Now it also sounded very categorical, but there is no one down here on earth who is infallible, including my predecessor, so of course I am ready to see if we can do better. It's just because everyone asks when you come to as a new minister: are you so tighter or more relaxed than the former minister? And there's just my ambition to be about the same thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141434	The next brief remark is to Mrs Susan Kronborg, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141438	Thank you very much. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate you very much on the new ministry and on the new ministerial post and also to draw attention to the accession of the Convention on Civil Liberties, in which we have fully acceded to that Convention, apart from the fact that we have expressly reserved an administrative right of return. However, we have accepted the explanatory statement for all refusals, and we have then implicitly agreed to the list of illegal criteria. However, I would like to know if we have now made reservations about the accession of the Convention on Civil Liberties, in which we have made reservations about the possibility of an administrative reprisal, however, whether this is something that the Minister will consider.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141536	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141538	I know that there are some written answers on the way to Mrs Susan Kronborg on this matter, and then I promise to explain as well as I can. I'm not a hundred percent down in the discount option in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141551	Mrs. Susan Kronborg? Thank you, Minister. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141612	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505141640	Last weekend it happened again, another partner killing on a woman. A 73-year-old man killed his 72-year-old wife in their home in Svendborg. It's the sixth murder of a woman just this year. Killing doesn't happen out of the blue, in affection or impulsive. Typically, there are warnings in terms of partner violence. In general, violence in our society is decreasing, but this does not apply to partner violence and partner killings. Here the figures have largely not changed over the past many years. Partner violence and partner killing continue to be a major problem. It is not the individual's problem or the family's problem; it is a social problem and it is a social responsibility to do away with partner violence and partner killings. Too many women suffer severe violence from a partner or ex-partner, too many children grow up and witness domestic violence, and too many women are killed every year by their partner or ex-partner. It is killing where violence and control precede, also in other circumstances, where violence and control, threats and stalking escalate over time in frequency and intensity, where there is a triggering factor, such as: that the woman threatens to leave or leave her partner. It is killing that can be prevented by targeted action against partner violence, stalking and threats, and by the fact that, as a society, we are putting the touch on the shelf, talking about violence and clearly saying that we are doing away with violence as a private matter, because it is not. Many political initiatives have been taken in recent years. We have introduced the law of consent in relation to rape, legislation against psychological violence, adopted a new stalking clause and much more. Despite the many initiatives taken in recent years, too many women continue to be subjected to partner violence. And we have not had enough focus on counteracting either partner violence or partner killings, which are the largest single kill type in Denmark. The government wants to strengthen the fight against partner violence and partner killings. We want to break the basket. Fewer people have to live with violence in the family. We need to take action so that violence does not escalate and ultimately ends up with partner killings. We must recognise that partner violence and partner killings are not a private problem, an unsexed problem, but a social and gender equality problem that we are responsible for. That is why we need to interfere much more with the suspicion of partner violence. We need to interfere as authorities, as family, as friends and as neighbours, and we need to become much better at knowing what we need to keep an eye on. And we need to know where it is that we need to help someone when the violence is there. We must act and take action earlier, and we must make it more coordinated. Greater focus must be placed on the behaviour of the perpetrators and the possibility of treatment, so that repetitions are avoided and we break the cycle of violence. Against this background, the government can support the motion for a resolution here today. We are in the process of drawing up a new action plan against partner violence and partner killings involving relevant actors that I am visiting in these weeks and with whom I have within the Ministry to give their opinion. And my hope is that, as a whole, Parliament can create the understanding that domestic violence can lead to murder, that domestic violence is not a private matter, whether it be in the neighbourhood or in the family, and that we all have a responsibility to respond when we suspect partner violence. This therefore requires a completely new approach, and that is what the new action plan should reflect. It is a community responsibility to stop partner violence and prevent partner killings. That social responsibility starts here in the Folketing, which is why I am also looking forward to discussing the action plan further. However, as I said, we support the proposal here today and I would like to thank the proposers for bringing it up. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142104	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment to be made to the Minister. It's for Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142110	Thank you to the Minister for your support for the proposal, and thank you to the Minister for doing something. I feel that it is really important that we can finally move this agenda forward, which is why I would like to hear the Minister when he expects us to begin to see the outlines of an action plan. Because if that forecast is going to hold true or the increase continues for the number of partner killings this year, then I think we are going to blow up all the frames because there have been a lot of partner killings, unfortunately, already this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142144	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142145	I mean, I am an impatient person, and for every day that goes by, there are more and more women being subjected to violence, and there is a risk that more killings will be committed, so I am impatient when we get started. Therefore, it is also my hope that it will be within a reasonable timeframe that we will see this action plan. Work is done at full pressure to get it ready.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142209	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142211	Well, that sounds really good. I just get worried because I think the minister in a newspaper article said it would be after the summer break. And I think it is urgent to get some initiatives under way. We may not be able to solve everything at the same time, and something may also require more research. But I think we should do what we already can. So I would like to put another question to the Minister, namely whether the Minister will be prepared for research to become part of the action plan. There are all kinds of things. I heard the Minister say that treatment must be part of it. That is, in fact, one of the points we are making: outpatient counselling and treatment for the perpetrator. But I also think that we need to know more about the signs that are precisely before things go wrong. We have knowledge that there are eight steps ahead of a homicide. But the triggering factors I think we need to learn more. Will the Minister consider providing some research into this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142313	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142315	Well, I'd like to answer that I know enough. I know that 38 000 women per year are subjected to violence and that every month there is a partner killing. That's enough knowledge to say we have to start. That is not what the questioner is asking, but whether we should delve deeper into the understanding of violence. I believe that we need a new approach to violence, and these eight steps, which are supported by research, in other words on the basis of the killings that have taken place over a long period of time, are part of a new action plan. Is there anywhere else where we need to strengthen the knowledge base? I will certainly not deny that. But the most important thing in the action plan is that we get done with the private, and that we have a significant fight with partner violence associated with taboo, and that there is nowhere to go when you are exposed to partner violence. I think that is the most important thing, and then I will never oppose the fact that there can be a better knowledge base and that we can also initiate exciting initiatives in that account.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142418	The next brief remark is to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142421	Thank you. The minister says the minister wanted to say: I know enough. Then there came a but. The minister then probably also knows, if the Minister knows enough, that the Ministry of Justice published a report which counted all the killings during the period from 2012-2017. There it turned out, unfortunately, but perhaps a little expected, that immigrants and descendants represent a very large proportion of those who kill women in partner relations, despite the fact that they do not represent a very large proportion of the population. They make up 9%. of the population, and the perpetrators of this group, according to this report, are 23 per cent. Is the Minister and the government planning to take this up in the plan of action that the government is coming up with? Or what about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142516	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142517	We must certainly not close our eyes to the ethnic diversity that exists when we talk about both violence and killing, but we must also break the taboo that is where you have a nice front garden with nice flowers and where they are well-off families. Violence is happening everywhere in this community. That is why we should not, in any case, make it something that is going on in certain environments, because that is not the case. It's happening everywhere in society. Therefore, it is absolutely crucial that it is the taboo on violence that we get broken, that it is about knowledge about violence, about what to look for and that we get broken with that it belongs to the private. However, I recognise, as can be seen from the number of those in crisis centres, that there is an ethnic side to which we must not close our eyes. It just must not be allowed to happen that this is something we think is only happening in certain environments, because this is happening in all parts of society, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142616	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142617	I do not think anyone would say that this is only happening in certain environments, but it is quite a violent over-representation that amounts to 9%. of the population, but 23%. By the perpetrators of these partner killings, they're pretty violent. And we also know that in Islamic culture there is a different view of women and a different view of equality from that of Western countries. There may also be some women who find it difficult to speak Danish, who do not have a large network in Danish society and who thus find it harder to get out of a violent relationship. So I really hope that, if you take this seriously, you are also willing to look completely without prejudice at the fact that a disproportionate proportion of the women who are killed are killed by partners who have an immigrant background.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142707	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142708	We're not gonna close our eyes to that. This is also the reason why we have set up the Commission for the forgotten women's struggle, which, after all, focuses specifically on those women who live in some environments where values are quite different. It is absolutely, absolutely essential that we carry it with us. In relation to the action plan, we must not close our eyes to it either, but it will focus particularly on the fact that we break the taboo, that we turn violence into something that is not private or belongs inside the four walls of the home, that we get the tools for the authorities to spot the violence, and that is in every environment, and that we get some decent places to go when you are exposed to violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142746	The next brief remark is to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142749	Thank you. Sorry I was a little late. Perhaps the Minister has already said what I am going to ask, and I would just like to apologise in advance. Like Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, I think it is really nice that the government backs this proposal, but we all know that action plans are not free if they are to become something; if they are to work. So I really would like to ask the government about the funding. In other words, is this something that we imagine should be negotiated in the context of the Finance Act? I really think the parties behind this proposal would like to be a part of that. Or is it supposed to be negotiated in another reserve or pool, or what to say?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142830	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142832	I believe that there are two parts of the proposal that come on the table. There is something about strengthening initiatives and strengthening efforts, which, of course, requires funding; we will come back to that. And the other part is getting this showdown on the fact that the violence is private, and I think that's actually one of the most important things. Because we can continue to strengthen initiatives and we will continue to do so, but if we do not have this fight against violence as something going on behind the four walls of the home, then I am nervous that we will just have to make more and more offers and not have to break the chain of violence that is there. Something that is deeply remarkable when you follow the writings of the newspapers every time there has been a murder of women, a murder of partners, is that the neighbours usually say: we knew there was something wrong. As far as I am concerned, it emphasizes that we have a huge amount of work ahead of us in order to take this fight against violence as something that belongs to private life.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142940	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505142942	We have a huge task ahead of us, and that is also why I am thinking that this task is not free of charge. However, something that is relatively free to do, and which is precisely about what the Minister has said, about whether domestic violence is a private matter, is that we stop calling it domestic violence in the legal system. I am in favour of the Minister being Minister for Gender Equality and Transport and not Minister for Justice, but nevertheless it could be that the Minister for Gender Equality and the Minister for Justice could have a dialogue on whether we should not remove that word from the Criminal Code. However, I would like to ask: does the government imagine that it should be part of the financial law negotiations that we put money behind this action plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505143021	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505143023	What the government is imagining is that there will be money to strengthen the initiatives, and I would like to return, when the game is presented and also discussed with the parties, with what the funding for it is. We also have some excellent pools that have just been set aside to support these bets. But let us discuss it further. What is clear is that we need a plan of action and that we need stronger offers, but we also, as a society, need a completely new understanding of what violence is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505143053	Thank you to the Minister for Gender Equality. This is how the rapporteur can begin and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Camilla Fabricius.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505143107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam President, when there is a flying change here. 2022 was no more than 3 days old before a 24-year-old woman was found killed in a car in the water. It was grotesque, and worse still, it is far from being the only murder this year, because unfortunately there are other examples. There are, for example: The woman who was killed a few hundred yards from where I live, just across the park, and that's how it is every month. Every year, on average, 12 women are murdered by their partner or ex-partner in Denmark because they are women. It is simply difficult to put into words how crazy it really is when you think about it. We have a serious problem in Denmark about partner killings. It is not an individual problem, it is a social problem and it is something that we must do something about. I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for having been so forward-looking and proper to have tabled this resolution which will make a real difference to the women, the relatives, the descendants of women who have been killed. Thank you to the SF, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten for having tabled the proposal. It makes a difference. When we look at the need for a national action plan for partner killings against women, I could not agree more, and the Social Democrats also agree with that. We cannot accept that women still have to fear for their lives because they are women. We're in 2022, and that's not how it's supposed to be. As the Minister also said, partner killings are not such sudden accidents as just fall from the sky. Partner killings are premeditated murders, where there has most often been a longer process that has charged up to the murder. This means that there are patterns that we can see and that we can respond to before it is too late. We can see that there has been domestic violence, and if we want to end partner killings, we also have to do away with domestic violence, as the Minister says, because otherwise we will never break the boring statistics for partner killings. I believe that we in Denmark are too bad to talk about the violence taking place within the four walls of the home. Besides being allowed to be here today in the area of justice and equality, I am also the social rapporteur, and here we come in daily contact with how violence is in the homes out there. Violence is hard to talk about, for it destroys the image of the happy relationship, and it causes guilt to be part of a home where there is violence. So we're gonna have the courage to talk about it, and we're gonna have the courage to stop it. In fact, while I have read the motion for a resolution, I have also thought that there is something we need to do in the private relations we are in. It is not only the woman who is standing there, because I think we also have to look at the friendships we have. Who do we know who gets his phone checked, who doesn't have direct access to her bank, who wears long-sleeved shirts every day, who always has to go home a little earlier from Christmas lunch, if she even comes, because she cancels right at the end, or when we know that it may have been just as hard-handed enough? It's too violent, and we have to talk about it. We must interfere and we must stop talking about tragic family circumstances, family tragedies or domestic issues, which the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten also asked the Minister about. We are too bad to discover it, we are too bad to stop it, we are not looking after the victims properly, and we are not doing enough for those who practice violence. We need to do something more to stop the spiral of violence. We must do this for the victims, for the practitioners and, above all, for the children who are part of it and who live in violence. Again, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for having tabled a courageous, honest and very important motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505143529	There is a brief comment from Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505143533	Well, that's because on March 8 I visited the Aabenraa Crisis Center. One of the challenges they face, for example, is that the women who live there with their children cannot send the children to school, because the law on parental responsibility states that they must inform their father, and then he is told where their mother and child are staying. It makes it undoubtedly somewhat difficult when you are linked in this way, for those women who finally flee the violence and thus prevent a partner killing. So does the Socialist rapporteur see that we also need to focus on the children themselves in a future action plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505143613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505143614	I'm 100 percent. There is no doubt that we need to have a strong focus on children when we talk about domestic violence. It has a direct consequence for children who have grown up in violent relationships, whether mental or physical, because they lose themselves, and they are more challenged at where your borders go, and you have an experience that your own self is not good enough, because what you see is too violent. What the rapporteur is pointing out here is, of course, essential. That is essential, because when you are so threatened that you are going to a crisis centre, it is serious, and that is why we also need to look through it all. In the social field, we are looking at how we work on this, both in relation to the children first, but also in relation to the women's crisis centre area. We are also dealing with a family courthouse where we had adjusted the economy upwards to take care of women and children. But we also need to look at where it is that we can make it technically better so that such a situation does not arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505143722	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505143723	Thank you for that answer. I hope that we can resolve this in the action plan, because it is of course problematic when one is somehow still tied away with the one from which one is fleeing. But then I'll ask another question. Women's organisations are very concerned that we are creating links with partner violence, including psychic violence, because it is, like, the frontrunners before it culminates in a homicide. One of the points they make, which is quite important to take along, is that we get outpatient advice because not everyone can see themselves in a shelter. Was that something we could agree on?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505143803	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505143804	Well, I can't promise this, but we can at least see, as the minister also said, that we have to go out and have a broad understanding that violence hits all walks of life. We can see that it can be harder for the women who are placed with what was what the Minister said? At least I'm willing to discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505143834	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Maja Torp, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505143841	Thank you. The proposal that we are going to deal with here today is intended to put an end to partner killings committed against women. There is no doubt that partner violence and partner killing are a social problem that destroys not only the lives of the woman concerned but also the relatives of this woman's life. They're relatives who feel like they can't do anything. They have no opportunity or competence to intervene without risking doing more harm than good. This is a situation, including for the relatives, which leads to extreme powerlessness. There is no doubt that violence, regardless of form, does not belong in Danish society, and this also applies in particular to violence against women. Studies show, for example, that partner violence against women is often more frequent and more violent during pregnancy, so pregnancy is a focus area which one could think of in a national action plan against partner killings. For example, the midwives could be given more consideration than a screening for domestic violence during pregnancy and before the baby is born. We have seen examples of this in some municipalities, and it has been experiments that have borne fruit, because it will ultimately benefit both the woman and the child if action is taken in time, and this is just one way in which a national action plan could take action to protect women from potential partner killings. However, when dealing with proposals relating to partner violence and killing, we must be aware that the efforts must benefit all genders who experience violence by a partner, in other words, regardless of sexuality and gender. We can see from the statistics in the period 1992-2016 that it's a long time ago that 298 women were killed by their partner or ex-partner. That's like 12 women a year. During the same period, 78 men were killed by their partner, equivalent to three killings a year. So there is no doubt that women are more at risk when it comes to partner killings, but we must also not ignore the men who are also victims of inhuman brutality. A homicide is a murder, whether it was committed by a man or a woman. In the Left, however, we recognise that the proposal here has the potential to prevent violence and killing by both men and women, and this is demonstrated in particular by the desire to strengthen the competences of the relevant front staff and the relevant authorities, who are specifically responsible for ensuring the future of treatment and assistance for people who have been subjected to violence by a partner. By intervening in time, we are helping to prevent further partner violence, which can eventually lead to the worst possible outcome: killing. If we are to point to a little wormwood in the cup, and there is also here, is it, as Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt also mentioned earlier, or was it Mrs Rosa Lund? It seems that no funding has been given to the proposal, so there is of course something that needs to be looked at there. Then we in the Left also think that this thing about just focusing on partner killings is going to be a little too narrow. We think that we should spread it out to look at partner violence at all, but also partner killings by both men and women. Against this background, the Left can support this proposal, and we look forward to further work on both action but also prevention and tracking measures. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505144300	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are now moving on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505144320	Thank you, President. As a society, we need to give priority to the fight against partner killings, because we have an obvious problem when so many women are killed by someone to whom they are related, and therefore it is absolutely necessary that we now have an action plan that strengthens the fight against partner killings. An extensive study from 2019, which has mapped over 1,400 killings in Denmark for 25 years, shows that partner killings are the largest single group of killings and that it amounts to 25 per cent. of all killings. In comparison, gang killings are only about 7%, and that is said in goose eyes, but it is just to stress that killings committed in connection with gang crime are something that we talk a lot about in society. But partner killing is therefore the most common form of killing and therefore, of course, we also have to do everything we can to stem it. At the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that there is also a gender side when it comes to partner killings. 56 per cent. of all the killings of women are committed by the partner, and it's crazy when you think about it. However, this also means that the issue of partner killing is an equal opportunities issue. Because we need to recognise that partner killing is not an individual matter that can be delimited by a single case or a single mad perpetrator, but that it is a social matter in which we need to look at more basically why so many women are killed by a partner or ex-partner. Imagine if we could give priority to the fight against partner killings as much as we could, for example. The fight against gang killing and gang crime, we could really get a long way. We need an action plan and we look to our Norwegian neighbours, we see that they have drawn up a concrete action plan containing tools to prevent and reduce the number of partner killings. Their action plan includes, among other things: a strong focus on treating perpetrators, that victims are entitled to go to shelters and that the police strengthen and improve their ongoing focus on partner violence. Such an action plan or similar action plan is also required in Denmark. In fact, it is incomprehensible that we have not done more in the past in this area, but the action plan can also have a broader focus addressing the prevention of violence in close relationships. Because we know that when there is a partner killing, there is a history of violence that has preceded it. In addition, it is also obvious that our authorities should work more systematically with so-called risk assessments. Today, the police are working on these risk assessments where they analyse and find cases where there is a risk of violence that can escalate and develop into partner killings, and it would actually make quite sense if other authorities were also involved in risk assessments. It could, for example, be done. I would also like to thank the Commission and the Council for their excellent work on this subject. I would like to thank the Enhedslisten and the SF for their cooperation on this motion for a resolution. In each of the parties we were in the process of drawing up our own resolution, but I am really glad that we joined forces and made this joint motion for a resolution, and I would also like to thank the rapporteurs and the Minister who has already been on the floor to accept it. After all, we can already figure out that there is a majority in favour of this and that we are actually going to have an action plan, and I am very pleased about that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505144706	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505144723	Thank you. In the summer of 2019, 3 years ago, M.E. Asser Hedegård Thomsen concluded that partner killing is the largest single group of killings in Denmark. One woman a month is killed by her current or former partner, so one woman every month. The conclusion has probably surprised many, because partner killings receive far from the same attention, neither from the media nor from politicians, such as band killings. It is not because one murder is worse than the other, but as Mrs Samira Nawa also mentioned, it is strange that the biggest single cause of killing in Denmark is something that we do not talk about very much. Partner killings are often referred to as family tragedies or domestic violence, which went a little out of hand, and in recent years we have witnessed gender neutralisation of partner violence, which portrays violence as individualised acts carried out by both sexes. So there is a misleading picture of the dynamics and consequences of violence, and it becomes clearer when we talk about partner killings, that is, it is women who are being killed. The Ministry of Justice has even concluded in an investigation of killings in Denmark that the most common motives for partner killings are jealousy and separation: If I can't get you, no one should have you. This is a threat which many people seem to be taking seriously and which reveals the need of these men for domination and control of women. The Ministry of Justice has also concluded in 2020, i.e. two years ago, that one in four killings committed in Denmark is a partner killing. Behind the vast majority of killings are violent conditions; particularly psychological violence characterises the conditions that end up in killings. Often family or friends have already known about the violence. So do the authorities and the police. Women have feared for their lives because of direct or indirect threats, yet so many of these killings are taking place. I think that is evidence of a massive social failure. I can't believe we've let this happen for so many years. Violence against women often occurs at home. It is exercised by those they love, the place where they should have been most safe. Unfortunately, it is also often carried on in front of women's own children. Sometimes we also see, as Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt said, that the violence or killing also affects the children. The fact that violence is taking place in the home is a systemic failure in which we, as a society, have failed to protect and support those women who are being subjected to very serious crimes. The efforts for both the perpetrators of violence and the perpetrators of violence have been neglected for years, but with the financial agreement a few years ago, we were fortunately able to sort out some of the bad developments when we managed to allocate 300 million. kr. to more places in crisis centres and permanent funding of treatment services for both perpetrators and perpetrators of violence. At the latest police settlements, we also had specialised staff put in place to deal with precisely this type of case, while at the same time ourselves criminalising both mental violence and negative social control. I would like to say: what cannot happen when the Enhedslisten, SF, Radical Left and the government agree on something. That is why I am very pleased that the government agrees that there must be a plan of action against partner killings. In fact, I believe that there is now broad agreement at Christiansborg on this issue, and it can be said that it is better late than never. That is why, in the Enhedslisten too, we want to get this started as soon as possible, and that is why, together with the SF and the Radical Left, we have helped to table this motion for a resolution so that we can put action behind the fine words we all go and say when we talk about partner killings. We agree that this must be stopped. Now we have the opportunity to do something about it, which is why I am very pleased that the government is also supporting this proposal and would also like to thank the Radical Left and the SF for the good cooperation we have in this area when it comes to protecting women better. I also think that I listed some other examples which are proof that we can manage to change things in this area when we work together. So thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505145215	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. We move on to Mrs Britt Baker, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505145222	Thank you. I will start where the former rapporteur ended, by thanking the government for now supporting an action plan on partner killings. This was something I asked the Minister of Justice about back in November 2021, when the Minister of Justice strongly rejected the existence of an action plan in this area. But then there was a homicide, and there was one more, and now the government has come up with better thoughts and backs up an action plan on partner killings. This is, of course, something that we still find important in the Conservative People's Party. We think it is important that there should be work that goes forward in the future and that is most important in terms of inter-ministerialism. Because it is so stressful today that we are talking about one thing in the Ministry of Justice, one thing in a Ministry of Gender Equality and one thing in the Ministry of Social Affairs. So thank you for submitting this motion for a resolution. In the Conservative People's Party, we are still backing away.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505145327	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505145345	I would like to begin by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for making this proposal. We'll back that up. Unfortunately, one in four killings in Denmark is partner killing, and that is tragic in every case. It happens in every environment and every age. The minister actually referred to an example of Funen the other day, where an elderly man took his same old wife and where the neighbors say: we are in shock, but it does not come as a surprise. It was about a woman who had been telling the surroundings for years that she wanted to move away from the man, and now had just got another residence and had told the neighbors about it. One cannot know whether this murder could have been avoided, but if the surroundings are not surprised, it might have been a sign that someone could have responded to if they had had the sufficient focus and knowledge. That is why it makes great sense to look at whether, with an action plan, we can ensure that all relevant parties work together, that you have the information that is relevant and can share the information that is relevant, and that you have the knowledge that is needed to understand and interpret the signs that might be. So, of course, we need that action plan. The proposal's approach to involving relevant parties in the preparation of an action plan seems constructive. There is already experience, I understand, from Norway with an action plan to prevent violence in close relations. So there's something to pull on. I would therefore hope that we could perhaps write a broad report on the proposal in order to ensure that work is started on the preparation of the action plan, as the Minister has already said. We look forward to the work of the committee but, of course, we support the proposal as mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505145537	Thank you to the rapporteur. No brief remarks. Then we move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505145549	Thank you. Women's killings in close relationships are a serious phenomenon, regardless of the sex of the victim. When it is worth mentioning, it is because it is, after all, more often men than women are killed, but today it must be about partner killings on women. In January last year, the Ministry of Justice published the report "Types of homicides in Denmark" which looked at all the killings committed in the period 2012-2017. Here you can read about types of homicide, motives, perpetrators and victims and last but not least ancestry. The report shows that women are victims in 74 per cent. of the cases when it comes to partner killings. So women are particularly at risk of partner killing. If you look at who is committing those partner killings, then there is a particular group that is particularly over-represented. Unfortunately, I think we all know who it is, but for the sake of good order, I would like to reveal it: it is not Western immigrants and their descendants. As you know, they are over-represented in other crime statistics, so it is not surprising that they are also over-represented in relation to women's killings among partners. In Denmark, non-western immigrants and descendants more often kill their female partner than men do. As you know, women's vision has never been very sympathetic in Islam. But what proportion of killings and partner killings do the non-western immigrants and descendants stand for? When it comes to killing in general, Western immigrants and descendants do not stand for 28%, and that is despite the fact that they are only 9%. of the population. When it comes to partner killings specifically, immigrants and descendants amount to 23 per cent. by the perpetrators. Immigrants and descendants are therefore massively over-represented in the homicide figures. But whoever kills their partner is just mentally ill, right? I guess that's the explanation, you could say. I'm afraid there's no sign of that. According to the Justice Department's report, it's only 9%. by all of the perpetrators who have committed partner killings who are mentally ill. On the other hand, 43 and 31 per cent are respectively. by the partner killings motivated by jealousy or separation. The murderers simply will not allow the woman to walk away. What does that tell us when immigrants and descendants are so massively over-represented as perpetrators of partner killings, and that in most cases the cause is jealousy or separation? This tells us that unfortunately there are still too many people from the Islamic countries who do not appreciate women or allow them their freedom. Of course, it is also among Danish men, but note the over-representation: 9%. of the population, 23%. by the perpetrators. It tells us that the value of a human life, regardless of gender, weighs more heavily in some cultures than in others, and it tells us that if you want to do something good for the safety of women in this country, the most effective and sympathetic approach is to shut down the influx of migrants from Muslim countries and push back the Islamic and women's oppressive culture. I doubt that, on the basis of this resolution, we will have an action plan in which a more restrictive immigration policy is part of the plan, despite however well-intentioned it may be, and how much, after all, some of the parties recognise that this is also a real problem in immigrant families. In New Citizens, we believe that we must make greater efforts to prevent and stem not only partner killings on women, but also for partner violence and partner killings, and preferably committed by and against both sexes. An action plan alone for partner killing and committed against women alone risks easily becoming another perhaps well-meaning tax-financed document, which lies in the pile of plans and reports and which costs Danish tax dollars without solving the problems. We note that the government has launched work on an action plan; an action plan to stem the problems of both violence and killing and committed against both women and men. From this point of view, we hope that we will be able to come up with a joint report. And just to make it clear: it is not because we do not want to do anything about partner killings on women, but we need to look at it wider; we need to look at the violence, which often precedes the killing, and the repression, which often precedes the killing. We also have to look at what happens when it's men who are exposed to this, despite the fact that the men constitute a minority in this context. And in those words, thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505150052	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. This means that we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505150107	Thank you. It is then my job to pick up on the debate here. First of all, I would like to thank you very much for a fine debate, as I think it has been. Thank you, too, for recognising that something needs to be done. Recognition is wide and heard across all parties. So I think that's really good. After all, as was mentioned earlier, we had barely entered the new year before the first partner murder was committed. It was a 24-year-old man who had strangled his girlfriend and pushed her and the car into the water at Amager Strandpark. Then a number of other partner killings have been followed. I actually no longer have any figures on how many it is, but if I'm not mistaken, the number around the six pieces is already. According to Danner, an average of 12 women a year are exposed to a partner murder. I do not know exactly where the figure comes from, but if the partner killings in 2022 continue at the rate we have seen in the first four months of the year, then we will be setting a very scary record this year. That is why we urgently need to make an effort to combat partner killings and women's killings. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister has so clearly taken up the idea of drawing up an action plan in this area. However, I am a little bit sorry that we are only dealing with our proposal now, four months after it has been put forward. But the important thing is that we now share the desire to do something. I think it is thought-provoking that the most dangerous place for a woman to stay is in her own home and that what makes the home insecure is the one who should be the closest to looking after the woman, the partner, and that of course should not be the case. According to the Ministry of Justice's review of killings, partner killings are the largest single category of killings in Denmark. Victims are typically women, and separation and jealousy are the motive. We also know from research in this area that massive psychological violence and stalking precedes the killing. Yes, in fact, we know that eight steps have been identified towards a homicide that characterises the process. I would therefore like to appeal to the Minister to initiate development work aimed at examining how best to prevent, based on the knowledge we have on those steps. For the steps show that there are some signs that things can go very wrong. I think that good steps have been taken during this period of government, for example. mention can be made of the special police teams, which have also been mentioned here in the past, which must give priority to the fight against partner violence, stalking, honour-related violence and psychological violence, and which must introduce risk tools and train the police in their efforts. We have achieved a criminalisation of stalking and we have obtained the consent law, but more is needed. There is a need, as has also been mentioned in today's debate, for a comprehensive plan to be drawn up, which will also cover not only the area of social and equal opportunities, but also the area of health and employment. Because there are some people who meet these women or men, as they can be. In other words, when people are subjected to violence, someone sees the people who are subjected to violence, and we need them to respond to it, whether they are officials or private individuals. For the person who is subjected to violence, powers or may not dare to tell others about it, but there are almost always some signs that we can be aware of. So it's also about knowledge about how to prevent. I think it obliges all of us to intervene, whether we are individuals or officials. We know that one in four has been in contact with the police prior to a partner murder. So there's something that doesn't get caught, and it takes a knowledge to be able to do it. This suggests that we have now got to grips with the problem of partner killing, and we have also outlined some elements in the proposal which we think could be a starting point. It's not a total list. These are some elements that have been gathered on behalf of the many women's organisations who are struggling to get this action plan. We have, for example. need more research in a Danish context. We have among other things. Need to know exactly what it is that triggers the killing. We need more knowledge from the actors who meet women. We need better knowledge sharing. We need outpatient advice for the victims of partner violence. Because not everyone wants to go to a shelter. Not everyone is just ready to move in there. However, those who seek help in their networks or simply move must also have access to good help and support in this regard. There is a need for better access to treatment for practitioners. There is simply enough to deal with. One could also focus on the question: if we now know that mental violence is one of the things that can culminate in a partner killing, why are we still so bad at getting rid of the cases that are about it? There have been virtually no judgments in this area, and I think that is because you have to go about it differently. The evidence collection needs to be different when tackling psychological violence. There is a need to ask the circle, but we need to have a concept for it, and we need to have more knowledge of it in order for it to be possible. We're also getting a little bit smarter when something's gonna happen. Soon, the minister says. I hope so. This is a complex problem. We just have to admit that. This is a problem that goes across ministries and committees, and I think that is why it may have gone so slowly in getting recognition that this is a problem that we all have to address. It is complex, yes, but it must not stop us from making the initiatives that we can do now, because we just have to try to prevent women's killings better. Then I would like to say to allerallers last: some questions were raised about the economy from the Left, I think it was. It is the case that the proposal says that we must identify the initiatives that are needed and then return to those who support it and negotiate it and try to find an economy for the initiatives. So that's how we've been thinking about funding into it. It is very difficult to put sums on when you do not know what an action plan is going to contain and what is really needed. So that's why it's screwed up like that. So you can safely vote for that if that is the concern you have. Then something is mentioned about men. After all, we cannot escape the fact that partner killings on women are the largest single category of killings, but it is clear that if you make treatment offers, it must of course also apply to the other sex. Of course, if you make out-patient counselling services, it must also be possible for the other sex to get it; that is quite clear, but we do not escape the fact that this is also a gender issue, because the victims are mainly women. So I think we can probably find a way around that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505150921	There is a brief comment on Mrs Camilla Fabricius, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505150925	First of all, I would like to thank the author of the motion for a resolution for a very tough one. I also said that from the platform. The proposer here points to the pattern that precedes. Will the proposer not say a little more about what she thinks we can do about it? This also applies to the point made by the Minister that we have to consider this to be never private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505150954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505150956	I totally agree. This is not an individual problem; it is something for which we must all take responsibility. We are probably seeing some signs that we are not always aware of are signs, and this is where we need more knowledge so that we can intervene in the right way. It is the responsibility of all of us. In relation to the eight stages leading up to a partner killing, there is, after all, some English research in which 400 killings have been investigated. We have a similar study in Denmark, although not in relation to steps, but which shows that psychological violence and stalking is a pattern prior to the killing of a partner. And that is what the English study concludes. However, I think we should set up a committee which looks at the individual steps and finds out how we can prevent them, knowing now that this is what characterises the individual steps.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151059	Thank you. Mrs. Camilla Fabricius, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151103	Thank you. I think the proposer was very precise. Thank you so much. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt You're welcome).
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151108	Then I think we should thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151121	The debate is open. Here you go, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151153	Thank you. This afternoon we now have a proposal, as the President mentioned, from a number of parties to legalise cannabis during a 5-year trial period. The government's position is that, and I can say this right away, we reject the legalisation of cannabis, and we therefore reject a trial period. I shall then concentrate my speech on the reasons for this. When you look at pluses and minuses, we think that the weight bowl with minuses and negative aspects is much more serious and serious than the weight bowl with pluses. First of all, there are the harmful effects. We have just received a note from the Danish Health Service, which has recently looked at what we know about cannabis as a drug, and I have sent the note to the Committee on Health and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Time does not allow to go deep into the details, but let me highlight some of the main points in the note. About acute damage effects, for example, mention is made of the risk of anxiety and panic reactions, the risk of psychosis, and then there is also the risk of road accidents. These are the acute adverse effects. However, there are also harmful effects due to prolonged frequent use of cannabis. There are, for example: the risk of addiction, the risk of respiratory diseases and the risk of mental disorders. In addition, there is a deterioration in the ability to perform most tasks and the ability to carry out an education, where the latter can have far-reaching consequences for the individual young person, namely if, for this reason, education cannot be carried out. It is precisely young people and mentally vulnerable who are particularly at risk with regard to the damage. I believe that the serious adverse effects are sufficient reason to maintain a ban in Denmark on cannabis as a drug. That's the health stuff. I would also like to refer to the reasons for police and crime. It is, of course, as the Danish Parliament is aware, the minister of justice's resort, so let me just say that the Ministry of Justice has stated that it cannot be ruled out that one of the consequences of legalising cannabis will be increased consumption and not only of cannabis, but probably also of other drugs. Nor can the police rule out the possibility that a large proportion of consumers will continue to seek out the illegal market, as there is a risk that illegal operators will be able to offer cannabis at a lower price than they could in the possible legal market. In addition, it will be difficult for the police to enforce illegal possession of cannabis because then one will not be able to distinguish between legally and illegally acquired cannabis. However, as I said, it is the police and criminal justice minister's area of responsibility, so I am no longer going into it in my introductory remarks. In addition to the medical grounds that I started with, and the police and criminal reasons that I believe there is to reject the legalisation of cannabis, there is also one more legal factor to consider, because legalisation of cannabis as a drug is considered to be contrary to a fundamental provision of the UN Convention on Drugs. It is in the provision which states must do what is necessary to limit the possession of cannabis for medical and scientific purposes. And this proposal has no medical or scientific purpose, but cannabis as a drug. So the assessment is that it is contrary to the basic provision of that convention. So for the reasons I have now examined, the government will reject the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151621	Thank you. There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151625	Thanks for the speech. The Minister shall state his reasons, inter alia: its refusal to support this proposal with the view that it is harmful to health. But it is no more harmful to health to legalize it, that is to say, if you legalize cannabis, then you can earn money precisely to prevent damage to health, treat damage to health. If you look at the countries worldwide that have legalised cannabis, you see that people do not start to consume more cannabis. It goes a little up here, it goes a little up there, and it goes a little down there, but in general there is no increase in cannabis intake in the countries where it has been legalized. How, then, can the Minister use a health argument when, precisely if you legalize, you do not get greater damage to health, but, on the contrary, you earn billions to prevent damage to health and treat the damage caused by the government's cannabis policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151724	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151725	It is, of course, such a counter-productive discussion that we have here. We have a situation today with a ban, and where would we be if the ban were lifted? Would consumption then increase? As I mentioned in the speech, the National Police say that they cannot rule out that legalisation will lead to increased consumption, not only of cannabis, but also of other drugs. I think it goes without saying that a ban in any case restricts accessibility. Of course it does. I do not think we can get around that. I refuse to believe that if cannabis were legalized, we would not have a much more widespread use of cannabis than what we have today. So I think the logic dictates that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151824	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151825	So it cannot be based on belief that the government will allow trials on cannabis. Look in the studies in relation to all the places in the world where it is legalized. The Minister will see that there is generally no increase in consumption. The minister will also see in many of the places that when cannabis is legalized, the use, partly by other drugs, partly by a large number of opium-based drugs for pain. So what the police are saying is simply not right. That is simply not true. At least the minister will have to check it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151859	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151859-2	I am very happy to look into this and to read all the reports that we are getting, including from those countries that have experience with it. I would just like to point out here that it is very difficult to compare one country with another. Denmark is a country with a great deal of support for the legislation adopted by this Parliament, and the legislation is not only something that sets a legal framework, but it is also a normative one in relation to what is normal in society to use.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151933	Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505151934	Thank you. I am glad that the Minister for Health himself says that the legal policy of this is in the Ministry of Justice. That is precisely why the authors of this proposal would have liked it to be the Minister for Justice who said where the Minister for Health is now standing, but it is the government's choice that it is the Minister for Health who is standing here. That is why I would also like to ask the Minister for Health to answer how the police can assess that consumption is increasing. The Health Department doesn't do this kind of investigation, and the police don't make it known to me either. So how can the police, as police officers and not doctors, assess that consumption is increasing if there is legalisation?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152020	I can't answer how the police work. It's not my resort. This proposal is, of course, one of the things that we are dealing with here. on health, and it is also about what should be legal, what the police should be able to do, and what I mentioned is also about Denmark's relationship to a UN convention. So what I can answer as the Minister for Health is, of course, purely medical, and only the health professionals are very, very serious concerns, and direct warnings about psychoses, anxiety and panic reactions, the risk of mental illness, respiratory diseases, addiction, reduced ability to perform most tasks and to carry out an education, is, of course, enough to say that this proposal is likely to mean that the young people who find it difficult to get through education will only get even harder if they get such an addiction and abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152124	Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152125	But now it is the case that we can very easily compare ourselves with countries that have legalised cannabis, for example. The Netherlands, which in some respects is very similar to Denmark. At any rate, I think we can compare ourselves with the Netherlands and there has been no increase in consumption. So why is it that the Minister of Health and the Government believe that there will be an increase in consumption if we do so in Denmark? That's one. The second is that I should just ask the Minister to confirm whether it is not true that the UN has removed cannabis from the list of dangerous substances to the list of illicit milder substances.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152157	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152158	It is true that there are countries that have experience with this. I don't think we should follow those countries. This is a perfectly fair discussion. My opinion is also that I do not believe that it is the case that consumption will be unaffected by whether it is legal or illegal, and when we in Denmark look at our general consumption of other things, it is deeply dependent on what the legislation is like. So the legislation in Denmark is also standard-setting, perhaps in a different way than in other countries. It may be.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152232	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152233	Thank you. The minister says there is a greater risk of psychosis, anxiety and other things. It could be said that, if funds were released, we could look at preventing those situations. Because it is not certain that it is especially due to cannabis. It may be that it is the triggering factor, but perhaps there are other things that are more important. What is also important is to look at how much darkness one can say we now have in relation to consumers of cannabis, who actually stay healthy and who are able to take care of a job and a school, precisely because they can use the cannabis that is good for them. And there are so many examples of people who have done so for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152314	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152315	The Ministry of Health has sent the Danish Health Service's note to the two parliamentary committees, and it is quite clear that, for example, there is no doubt that there is no need for this. In the case of long-term frequent use, there is a risk of first becoming dependent, and then there is a risk of respiratory diseases and the risk of mental illness, and precisely with regard to the ability to carry out tasks and to carry out training, as the rapporteur says, the Danish Health Authority warns that there is a deterioration in it, which may have far-reaching consequences. This means that a massive abuse of cannabis is not something we can in any way recommend to young people, and I also think that legislation should clearly signal and show young people that this is not the way to go if you want a healthy life.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152414	Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152415	So I would like to hear: is there a qualitative study of what kind of young people this is about? Because it doesn't matter which young people we talk about, etc. But I also think that if you go out and buy cannabis on the free market, then you do not have a Chineseman's chance to know what the quality is and if you could go in and buy it in a shop where it is controlled, it will be another situation where you are more sure of the product you get.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152444	Yeah, that's right. I would recommend that you do not do so, that you do not go out and buy cannabis from people who sell it illegally. I would strongly recommend that. Then it was asked what young people it is. As I said, it is precisely the mentally vulnerable and particularly vulnerable young people who are particularly at risk with regard to these harmful effects. Some people may be able to do just fine, but especially the particularly vulnerable and the mentally vulnerable, those for whom I think we have a special responsibility, are at risk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152517	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152519	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I agree with the Minister that a drug like cannabis will naturally affect the user and will make it difficult to have a daily life, everyday life and school life if you consume it daily. The same can be said of another legal drug, an organic solvent. In fact, we are allowing alcohol, which I would probably not recommend that people consume before they go to school or work, or that they consume in large quantities every day, and I am quite sure the Minister agrees with me on that. So I would like to know whether the Minister can bring out some facts here and say something about the burden of disease and death rates as a result of cannabis versus alcohol. Is one more dangerous than the other, or are they equally dangerous? Can we say something about that? These are two drugs, so perhaps the Minister can make us wiser.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152607	Thank you for your opening remarks. I think I have to come back with a written answer to it and make use of what can be done as the Minister for Health, namely to ask the Health Service where our experts are, of course, about it. But it is quite correct, Mr President, what the questioner is asking. Stinus Lindgreen, says, and it is not the case that we recommend a massive abuse of alcohol, either to young people or to others. However, it can be said that one of the independent points in the Danish Health Authority's collecting note is that in the case of cannabis, there is a risk of dependence there is a risk of dependence. It is not the case that there is no alcohol, but here we have a special situation where there is a risk of addiction, and thus there is a risk of having that cannabis abuse maintained often.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152703	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152704	Thank you. If you have to make bets in this Chamber, I bet the Minister that the figures are probably quite biased in favour of cannabis when you look at the number of deaths and the burden of disease. But the Minister also mentions harder drugs, that you risk going from cannabis to something even worse, and I would like to hear from the Minister whether the Minister has considered whether the risk is greatest, if you are going down to the illegal market, down to the City, to buy your cannabis, versus if you are going into a well-regulated store and where there is only cannabis on the shelves. Where do you think you are most at risk of being met by criminals and being offered harder drugs?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152741-2	That almost sounds like a leading question. It is another minister's resort, but I dare to venture out on the thin ice and say that is quite logical. The answer to that question is of course self-evident, but the point was, of course, that in that one can assume that there is at least a risk of becoming addicted to cannabis, if it becomes a more common product for use in Denmark, and the police say that there will then be some illegal sellers who will be able to sell something at a cheaper price and thus sell something to someone who is dependent on something at a cheaper price, then one has the opposite situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152817	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152818	Thank you. If it was the case that the consumption of cannabis, hashish, was decreasing in Denmark, if it was such that it was a problem where we could say that this seems to go away by itself, I could understand that as a government one just said: it is fine as it is; we continue as usual. But that's not a fact. And if we agree on that, and I think we are here, that nobody has an interest in more young people getting psychoses, that more young people are going to become addicted to drugs that they cannot get out of, we do not want a major abuse, then you have to look at what we can do instead and how we can learn from other countries. The Minister says that the Minister cannot answer how the police work and thus cannot explain how the police can say that hash abuse will increase. But the Minister can, after all, explain his own ministerial speech. And when Mrs Rosa Lund comments on this, it is because the Minister himself, in her rapporteur's speech, produced the police as a testimony that this was at a certain risk. So where did the minister get that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152922	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505152923	As I said in my ministerial speech, it is information we have received from the Ministry of Justice that has received it from the National Police. Then Mrs Rosa Lund asked me whether I can explain here in the Parliamentary Chamber how the National Police are working to provide that information and assessment, but for good reasons I cannot. We can easily deliver that, as Mrs Pernille Vermund knows, in the work of the committee by redirecting questions, and we will do so. Once again, there can be only one minister per minister. I am the one who has it because there is also a great deal of health care in this proposal. However, I fully acknowledge that there is also a purely police profession. There are often those divisions. I tried to mention it, but I also made the reservation in the speech that, in relation to further questions, we must just go through the right ministries.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153014	Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153015	When I ask, it is because when I hear a statement like that cannot be ruled out, it is usually because you have no idea at all whether it goes one way or the other, and then such a statement can be used for as much as if you go down the street and ask a random woman or man. My bullshit alert is sorry, you cannot say that in this Chamber, when I hear such a statement, comes to a very high level. When I hear it from a minister who does not even know how to examine it here, in an area where we can see that the problem is rising, it is not falling, and in an area where the Social Democrats and the government do not have any proposals to resolve it, I am therefore worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153051	Thank you, Pernille Vermund. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153053	Thank you. So let us get that detector unmounted, and we can do so appropriately by means of thorough committee work, making sure that the various ministries, which are relevant to the various questions, provide answers, and then we can become wiser together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153111	Mrs Liselott Blixt, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153114	Thank you very much. After all, Cannabis is something we have discussed many times, and I would like us, for the sake of the citizens, to clarify a little more what this is about, because I myself get confused when I read the proposal. We want to legalise cannabis and at the same time refer to countries that decriminalise it. These are two very different things. I think it is very important that we look at some of those who are dependent and vulnerable and ensure that they are not punished, but are helped, as is done in Portugal. It is not a question of legalising, it is a question of decriminalising, and I do not think the proposal is going around enough, and I would like to hear whether the Minister for Health has an opinion on that. Now it is up to the Legal Affairs Committee to decide on this. Because sometimes we punish some people who are addicted to drugs, you can see it as a disease, while referring to some countries that are actually trying to see it as a disease. So now that we have the Minister for Health here for this proposal, I would like to hear: what does the Minister say there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153218	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153219	I am also aware of Mrs Liselott Blixt's perfectly correct statement that Portugal has just carried out a decriminalisation, in other words, in the sense that a violation of the ban on possession of drugs is not punishable if there is a small amount for its own consumption. So it is not a matter of the Portuguese lifting the ban. After all, decriminalisation is something quite different from legalisation, I agree with that. I know that the Minister for Justice has provided a number of answers to the Danish Parliament on precisely this distinction, also on the relationship with the United Nations Convention on Drugs, and there you can find more information on exactly the legal aspects of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153257	Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153259	Well, it's nice that there are others who, like me, get a little confused me. I would also like to say that when you sometimes hear those who need medical cannabis just those who are sick or those who need the calm it gives me, I'm really sorry that you haven't gotten any further with medical cannabis, so there were more who could get it or so we could make sure they could afford to pay it and didn't have to go out on the black market to buy it. Is that something the Minister wants to look at, that is, how we can do this so we don't criminalize a lot of people?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153331	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153333	It is quite true that it works as a relief of pain, and there are several other elements about it, and in that we have a legal medical cannabis and there is at least this rapporteur very, very familiar with the issues in relation to the global market and getting supplies of products to Denmark and, as such, to the whole world, there are people who have got stuck. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153404	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153407	I do not know whether the Minister recognises the EU's drugs agency and the investigations they are conducting; I assume the Minister is doing so. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights visited the drugs agency a few years ago and there they said that, at worst, decriminalisation means nothing and, at best, it causes consumption to fall. Could it not therefore be a good idea to try to turn the bucket a little and do something other than what we usually do? Now, for many years, we have fought this with punishment, prison and fines, but I don't really think we're really moving on, so isn't it time to do something else?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153454	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153456	Yes, if only it were so easy in relation to something that is illegal and involves consumption that is harmful to health. We really need young people particularly vulnerable, especially mentally vulnerable, not to get involved in this abuse, which really has serious adverse effects on their lives, so if it were just so simple that what Parliament had to do was to legalise, we did so. So I doubt it is, but I would very much like to see it if there is a report from the EU agency where you can read about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153529	Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153530	If nothing is done by decriminalizing that is at least what the SF's position is; we are not in favour of total legalisation; we are in favour of the Portuguese model; I think that is an important argument for doing something else. As it is now, those who sell go the targeted after constantly getting new buyers. If we could take that link out, take out the aggressive marketing, where there are some criminals who want to get as many customers as possible, would it not be worth anything compared to the young people the Minister is talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153605	Then we get an answer from the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153607	Yes, but as I said, there are more scales. I just think that the weight bowl on health care and the protection of the particularly vulnerable weighs more heavily. And I have the good to see something about it. As I have indicated, I would very much like to read all the reports that we can obtain, including from the relevant EU agency to learn more about it, if it really is the case that the highest expertise we have believes that the safe way to reduce consumption is to legalise. I doubt that's the way it is, but if it is, let's finally get smarter. The aim is to reduce the harmful abuse that exists, especially for young people who are vulnerable and who could therefore risk the serious damage I mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153657	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. And that means that we can get to work on the rapporteur's line, and first it's Mr. President. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505153711	Let me start by stating that the Social Democrats cannot support this proposal here. We cannot do this because there is a good reason why cannabis was banned at the time. Cannabis can have very serious health consequences for those who use it, and even consequences that can particularly affect those who are already among the most vulnerable in our society. I would like to dwell on what we know from the report last month by the Danish Health Service on the current knowledge of cannabis as a drug. The conclusion is clear here: Using cannabis can have very serious consequences. The Danish Health Service makes a distinction in the note between the acute and the long-lasting adverse effects. Of course, among the acute damage effects, as the Minister also mentions here, we find the risk of anxiety and panic reactions, psychoses and the risk of getting involved in road accidents. And among the long-lasting harmful effects are addiction, mental illness, the destruction of the opportunity to have education and work, that is to say, very serious consequences for the individual's opportunities forward-looking in life. In addition, there are some of the same consequences as there are of other tobacco products, namely increased risk of a large number of respiratory diseases, as we know from ordinary smoking. The report from the Danish Health Authority also points out that young people and mentally vulnerable people are particularly vulnerable, and I think we should all think about that too. Cannabis can thus help to reinforce some of the inequalities that we are already seeing in health. I would also like to say that I am really surprised that we have this debate here, while at the same time we are currently negotiating how to restrict the access of children and young people to tobacco products and how to ensure that there is less smoking. After all, there is a broad consensus that it is important for fewer children and young people to start smoking, including among several of the parties who are behind this motion for a resolution, and who argue in the second context that availability is absolutely crucial to how much is smoked. And then, frankly, it seems a little strange that in relation to cannabis, you want to go the opposite way, and where it is the reverse logic that applies. Because when we talk about smoking, there is a broad consensus that there is a connection between availability and consumption • that the more accessible a product is, the higher the consumption will also be. Then you can understand from the resolution here that exactly as far as cannabis is concerned everything is upside down, and it is so that accessibility will obviously mean less consumption. I think that's to put it nicely... a funny logic. We can do much else; we are already on the way with increased production in Denmark of medical cannabis, which is of course in a completely different league, because it does not have all the health consequences like those described in the proposal here, but still away can help really well in relation to pain patients who can have better opportunity to be pain-covered, even in a legal and harmless way, contrary to if they need to use plain cannabis. At the same time, of course, we all have an ambition to have a ten-year plan of action for the whole psychiatry before such an awful long time. We also know that, unfortunately, there will be a number of young people who, apart from mental illness, also have an abuse and perhaps a combination of both hash psychoses and other diagnoses, perhaps other forms of abuse. We should not, of course, speed up this development, but rather ensure that we have a treatment system that can embrace the individual citizen, the individual young person in this case, who needs help, that one is not rejected at the door because one has an abuse, or is rejected at the door, because one has a suffering, but that we embrace the whole person, even if there are double diagnosis or three or four or five or six diagnoses at once, so that we do the work here. So no thanks to this suggestion. It is not because there can not also be and are reasonable arguments in favour of total legalisation, but what is therefore the crucial argument and also quite so I do not think that a responsible Parliament can vote through. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154201	There is a brief comment. First, it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154204	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Vulnerable young people are said to be worried about young people becoming addicts. If we are now to tackle the root of the nettle, it is of course a problem in our society that we have so many vulnerable young people. We have so many people who are anxious and have depressions, regardless of cannabis. So wasn't that where we had to solve the problem instead of taking this remedy from the people who actually need it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154232	But who needs cannabis? That is to say, if you refer with that argument to some form of self-medication, then we know that unfortunately there are a lot of citizens with mental illness who come through everyday life and come through life by self-medication, for example with drugs, with hashish, with alcohol, with other things that may, of course, relieve some pain now and here, but which have some very, very serious health and social consequences and are addictive, and it is a price that many of them are unfortunately going to pay for the rest of their lives. That's not what they're supposed to do. They need to relieve with some medical products. Depending on what mental illness you have or what problems you have, we are not helping anyone by leading them towards the fact that now they are going to smoke something more hashish. No, we help them, and for some people, for example, it will be medical cannabis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154333	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154335	First of all, the selection of medical cannabis is very small and will continue to be so. So there is simply not the spectrum that people need. And then I think that the rapporteur is a little prejudiced when he says addiction and ruined lives. So I hear about a lot of people and I know a lot of people who get a good life because they can take cannabis. It is not because it is large amounts, but it is what helps them to have a good life. In fact, I think that is very important to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154404	Well cannabis can be painful for some, for example for pain sufferers, and that is why we, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament, except for Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party, supported the idea that we should extend the trial period we have using medical cannabis in Denmark, while with the other hand we speeded up the need for more cannabis production at home in Denmark, so we have good Danish safe medical cannabis products for citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154440	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154442	I think that is what the rapporteur thinks about his speech. There is no shadow of evidence. I think I'll ask written questions, one by one. For example: there is no evidence that the availability of cannabis is essential. Rockers and criminal networks sell cannabis to children and young people all over the country in every small crack. Our educational institutions are flowing with it. Well, it's everywhere because of government policy. All studies at global level show that it does not increase the intake of cannabis when it is legalised. When the rapporteur has those concerns about the damage and no more people smoke because it is legalised, why would the rapporteur not help to make a few billion dollars to help those people who, because of government policy, can buy it everywhere and who may have been abused?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154539	It is a curious reversal of the main logic that the alternative presents here, because in all other contexts accessibility is crucial for what consumption will be. This is the smoking issue we are talking about, because a large part of our smoking law is about this; that's why we don't want tobacco visible everywhere in the kiosks. That's why there has to be more control so that children and young people under the age of 18 don't have to buy this. That is why taxes have been significantly increased by 50%.; that's why we have smoke-free school time; and that's why we're doing this massive effort in relation to smoking. But apparently as soon as you roll a lump of hash into this cigarette, the logic of the Alternative is reversed. I'm impressed with the creativity of that argument... let me put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154639	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154640	That is because there is something the rapporteur has not understood. The reason it's available everywhere is because it's illegal. The reason why the rapporteur's party can impose restrictions on alcohol is that it is legal and that there is an age limit. That is to say, the moment you do it legally, you start to be able to regulate it. This is the mechanism that the rapporteur simply does not understand and therefore begins to hide behind strange statements about the alternative. Can the rapporteur not understand why we can introduce an age limit if we do so legally?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154713	And the alternative is absolutely convinced that bikers and gangs etc. Will there be a great deal of interest in the age limit that will then be set? Well, I understand that drugs including cannabis are unfortunately widely used and are much more accessible than most of us want. To think that it should be in every schoolyard and street corner and that it is something that young people get stuffed in their heads, almost wherever in the country they live, may be a bit of an exaggeration. I don't want any more cannabis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154749	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154750	Thank you. I'm wondering exactly the same things as Mr. Torsten Gejl. I have to say that I think the Socialist rapporteur made a very far-reaching speech. Doesn't Social Democracy know that cannabis is one of the most easy things to get to in Denmark today? Does the Social Democratic Party really think that some LTF or rocker cares whether whoever comes and buys a lump of hashish is under 18 or is psychologically vulnerable? I do not think so, but the Social Democrats may have a different view. Legalising cannabis would be to take the market back, it would be to make it less free, and I think it is far removed from reality if we do not know that that market is completely free today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154836	As I mentioned in my speech, I recognise that there are arguments in favour. This is a trade, for example. to try to eliminate some earnings from, for example, gang criminals and others who make money from the sale of hashish and make money from all kinds of other forms of crime. I don't think you have to imagine that they're gonna stop being criminals because they're gonna make less money out of this. But leave it alone. As I said, I recognise that there are arguments. I also believe that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur heard that the argument which is crucial to me and which is why the Social Democrats reject it here is the health argument. We do not want any more of the social and health consequences derived from increased use of cannabis. We don't want to normalize cannabis further, we don't want to spread cannabis anymore, we don't want to make cannabis more accessible than it is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154937	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505154938	We could make it less accessible if it was the state that had control of the market, but let it be. If we then go into the arguments of the government and the Social Democratic Party, I wonder why it has not then asked the Health Authority whether consumption will increase. You lie down with the police, you can't even explain where the police got this. I have to say that asking the police if consumption is going to increase is a bit like going into a shoe store and asking if you have tooth holes. These two things are not connected, so why haven't the health authorities been asked about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155012	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155013	We can ask a lot of questions, and we can also ask the health authorities about their assessment, but I do not know if they have any special conditions for guessing anything in the future, that if we do this and that, the Danes will do this and that, and then there will be an increase of that percentage, or there will be a decrease of that percentage among young people. I do not know whether there is anyone at all who needs to be able to predict whether this is going to happen in the future. I certainly have not, and I think nobody in this Chamber has either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155044	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155046	Thank you. It almost sounded as if the rapporteur actually had an idea that it would lead to increased consumption if we followed this model, so someone has some sort of clear-sightedness in this area. But that's not what I wanted to ask. I think the rapporteur said in his speech that the logic is turned upside down when one expects that there will be a reduction in consumption if one follows this. I haven't heard anyone say that. I've heard everyone say from down here that this doesn't give that explosive growth that you might be worried about would come. These are two rather different things, and I think that is quite important to bring in here. Then I also think it is important to distinguish between drugs and drugs. The rapporteur himself says that we in the Radical Left are not in the agreement on the pharmaceutical regime, but these are two different things, and I think that things are getting mixed up, both by the rapporteur here and from below. We need to distinguish between the drug discussion and the drug discussion. This is where we talk about drugs and how we handle it best. We agree that there are problems, that there are challenges raised by the rapporteur. The question is how we handle it best, and I think we do that by taking care of it, and we can do that by taking the market back and finding the vulnerable. Does the rapporteur not agree that it is easier to deal with the problem if we have a hold on who needs help?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155149	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155150	That was a lot of questions. Let me say at the outset that, frankly, I find it strange that the Radical Left does not want medical cannabis, which is safe, but would like to have ordinary cannabis, which is dangerous, as we are perfectly aware is dangerous. And yes, these are two different things, but it is strange, I must say, that you do not want the safe, but so now here very passionately argue that you want the dangerous cannabis. Now the rapporteur asks me whether I should have a particular kind of clear-sightedness, and I think I actually said that I did not. But what we know, or at least what is generally accepted on all other parameters, including smoking and, in particular, smoking, is that accessibility is absolutely crucial, and that is what we are debating. That is what we all accept, and it is not quite so remote from the world to think that the logic of availability of all other drugs may also apply here when it comes to cannabis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155258	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155259	I fully agree with that. I just don't think we agree on what increases availability the most whether it's getting control of the market or leaving it as it is. And I agree with Mrs Lund that the rapporteur may not be aware of how easily accessible and how widespread it is in society today. So that's probably where the disagreement is, because of course price and availability means something here like on all other parameters. I would like to hear from the rapporteur about something else too. The rapporteur mentions psychosis, anxiety and other psychological problems, and it is quite well known that there is an over-representation here, but has the rapporteur considered whether it could be the other way round: that people take it because they have startling anxiety and emerging psychoses, that is, what the cause is?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155334	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155335	It is well known that weed psychoses can be acquired from the use of hashish, and it is very, very serious and something that people may risk having to fight for the rest of their lives. As I mentioned earlier, it is also widely known that people who have serious mental problems may be more exposed to other forms of abuse in some form of self-medication, but it is not the solution to release self-medication more. The solution must be to give them proper and safe medicine.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155410	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155411	Thank you. I am glad that the rapporteur says, after all, that the rapporteur has no clear-sightedness and thus completely slams the ground of any argument that should be about evidence in this area. The rapporteur recognizes that there is no evidence of this. No one here is interested in getting more addicts. Nobody's interested in more people getting psychoses. What we can see is that the current policy is not working. You've left this to the gangs. I have three boys of my own. Two of them went to school and now go to high school. Both in school and in high school, weed is sold. The headmasters know it, they fight it, but it's being sold. I myself drive by a third school in our vicinity and then drive over to my neighbor's, who is a police officer, and say, "Listen, they're down there selling weed." It's a school that at that time went up to 7th grade. The policeman said, unfortunately, there's nothing we can do about it, it's happening all over the place. So the condition right now is that this has been left to an illegal market, which is everywhere. And I really think it is quite telling that the Social Democrats have more confidence in the gangs than in the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155514	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155516	We don't have that now, but we trust that people want to follow the law. Now, both the rapporteur and I, we are lucky enough to have children. Mine are a little younger, so it's not quite a concern for me yet. But we must also assume that most children and young people have been brought up to follow the law, and if something is legal, it is more difficult as a parent or teacher or others to say: don't do that even if it is completely legal; you can buy it at any pharmacy, you can buy it around the corner, maybe even advertise it here and there and everywhere, and it's quite fine, and it's perfectly legal compared to if it's illegal and it's quite clear that it's not something that the state or authorities or parents or school or anyone wants to push along with. So by normalizing it and by legalizing it completely, you also change the norm in relation to what the attitude of young people and children and everyone else is into this abuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155620	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155621	Well, that's remarkable. So we have a motion for a resolution in which the motion for a resolution, which I suppose the rapporteur has read, says 41 per cent. of all young people under the age of 25 have smoked hashish. It is true that the majority then do not. The majority in this area are complying with the law. But we're talking 41 percent. of all young people under 25 years of age. And this comes from a party that notoriously distrusts the Danes, which notoriously restricts the freedom of the Danes, but right here you are confident that the young people can find out, despite the fact that the gangs have the market.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155653	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Vermund. Mrs Pernille Vermund, when I stand up, I suppose time has passed, and I feel a little bit that when you start a third time on a new sentence, I think it might go a little far. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155706	We have great confidence in the Danes on all possible parameters. We are also confident that the Danes want to follow the law, and we trust that there are a lot of young people who, when we have rules on how fast to drive and whether you can drink before driving, or if you can't, whether you can smoke hashish, or if you can't, in all possible ways really want to follow the law, broadly, as much as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155739	Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155741	In 2017, the Danish Health Authority published a report which showed that 48%. of all Danes between 16 and 44 years of age have tried cannabis. I will not ask the rapporteur if he is one of them, but there is a good probability, given that it is every other one of us, that there are a few who have tried it in this Chamber too. I understand the rapporteur has all sorts of aversions against this proposal, but then I actually have a compromise proposal: how about we finally set up a commission to examine it here in depth? We never move anywhere, it's the same discussion every time we have this up. Some come up with one argument that is not sustainable; others say something that there is no evidence either. Wasn't it a good idea for us to set up a commission and have this examined in depth? Then we can always argue afterwards about whether we will follow the recommendations of the commission instead of refusing to have this examined in depth, since there are results from other countries that show that it does not lead to higher consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155847	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155848	I have no particular need for us to set in motion some major commission work which will then have to take a lot of time and spend a lot of money and energy on this. I'm pretty clear about where I stand and the Social Democrat quite clear about where we stand on this issue here. Compared to the first one mentioned by the rapporteur, with these forty-four percent who have tried cannabis: I do not quite know what argument those figures really support. What was that supposed to prove? Well, it's not the same thing that some people have been smoking weed once, and then some people are gonna be abusing and have to fight it for the rest of their lives. I fully understand that there are plenty of young and older people, etc. who have tried to smoke hashish. That's the way it is. I'd rather have some alternatives to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155950	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505155952	What I'm trying to say is that when every other Dane has tried to smoke hashish, it is de facto decriminalized. Then it is so easy to obtain that every other person is willing to ignore the legislation we have. It doesn't matter. They're trying it anyway. That means it's everywhere. It's so easy to reach. I am certainly very sorry that the rapporteur says that he will not even help to have it examined in a Commission. I think that is the worst starting point at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160025	Thank you. Then we get the answer from the rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160028	Well, it's never nice to make good people sad, but that's where I stand now. So to say that because some people have tried to smoke hashish once, it is an expression of their total disregard for the law, I think is simply nonsense. I don't think that's 48 percent. or maybe even more of the people who have tried to drive too fast on the highway maybe even more than once. Does this mean that the legislation is being blown or that we have to remove speed restrictions on the motorway? No, it doesn't. We still know that that legislation and those rules are standard-setting and make sense, even if they are sometimes violated.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160107	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we go to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160127	Thank you. I can say at the outset that the position of the Left is that we are opposed to the proposal in question and that our arguments in the main are the same as those put forward by the Minister and the Social Democrat rapporteur here today. It's a little grotesque in itself to have to deal with a proposal for a trial period on something that we all agree supporters and opponents of this are addictive. It is a little strange to adopt a trial period, because if the poor man who jumps on something during the trial period, and that was not a good idea, and we maintain the old legislation, then he has become addicted to it. So I think it's kind of a weird thing in itself. As far as accessibility is concerned, I can refer again to the Social Democrat rapporteur and say that when something becomes more accessible, I actually believe that there will be an increase in consumption. That will be the case, there is no doubt about it at all. It is referred to and I have a strange feeling that we probably haven't heard about the last report... reports about everything from near and far, from Holland and from Italy etc., and I might as well be honest to say that I think there are reports of everything in this, rub and stump. I myself also have a report with which I would like to quote, but I would like to be free, because it has to be admitted that the reports draw very different pictures. However, because of the widely differing views, it is liberating that an institution which we all respect, namely the Danish Health Service, has produced a quite fresh note. It is not a month and a half old, and it reproduces exactly the problems that exist around cannabis as a drug. The Minister has reviewed it or has at least reviewed the main features of the conclusions and I think that is the study that I will allow myself to lean on. It is a neutral body, they have no shares in the problem in addition. So it is the Health Authority's note that we are leaning on, and I must also say to those who have mentioned and referred to investigations into the release in the United States, and this is true both in Colorado and in the State of Washington that there is actually a dike report here, which is also mentioned in an answer given to the Parliament's Legal Committee, 763 - no. 2017. And there the Minister for Justice refers to the report, which refers to the fact that in the two states where cannabis has been legalised, there has been increasing consumption, increasing consumption among minors, twice as many traffic accidents with cannabis, absenteeism from jobs, more poisonings, etc. etc. Funny enough, however, we do not hear much more about the situation in the United States either. Now it is other countries that are referred to. One of the arguments, and this is also the case here today, has been that we can get rid of the gangs' sources of income and so on. No, the National Police have given an answer to that, and it is referred to in the same reply from the Minister, and it is also reproduced here in Berlingske: the National Police flattens the desire to legalize hashish: it does not slow down crime, rather quite the contrary. I think it is worth emphasising. So a reference to the Netherlands, where it has been legalised, is not very good. The gangs thrive all too well in the Netherlands. It's probably one of those places in the world where they thrive best... Satudarah and co. The Legal Affairs Committee itself visited the Netherlands. We've seen gang activity far, far worse than at home. I don't know if you can say that the trip was wasted... we certainly learned nothing. It was the Dutch who learned something from the Danes about gangs. So allow me to say that I do not believe that legalisation, as in the Netherlands, has any positive effect on the destruction of the activities of the gangs. So there won't be much to pick up there. It is the view of the Left that we are talking about something that is addictive. It is the Left's view that we should stick to the Health Authority's memo. As I said before, they have no shares in anything but give an objective assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160602	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160606	I have not used any argument about gangs that is something that the rapporteur first mentions, and then he starts to criticise it. I haven't heard that mention before. But how does the rapporteur think it can be that in the Netherlands, where it is decriminalised, fewer young people use cannabis than in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160629	I do not know, nor do I know of the figure in question, which is mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160636	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160638	No, but then you can't get anywhere if you can just deny the facts. It's gonna be hard. Then I understand that the rapporteur is hoping that this will not be the case scientifically. In recent years, the penalty has become more severe, the fine has increased and consumption has increased. So well is the cannabis policy that the rapporteur is defending. Cannabis hasn't increased in price in the last 40 years. That effort has no impact on the market. Then we come here and want it under control, and we will even use some of the money that is being made from it to counteract some of the harmful problems that the rapporteur is also worried about, and then we will just get a lot of undocumented answers. Why does the rapporteur not want to do anything about this, rather than continue with something that has failed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160735	The questioner talks about undocumented answers, but I would almost say that I did not reply, so it was neither undocumented nor documented. 'Cause I'm not gonna go prepping for Mr. Knox. Torsten Gejl can find some country in the world... in this case, it was Holland... and then ask what I think about the developments in that country. I can't. So I would rather answer that I do not know but to start throwing myself into some strange postulate for which I have no justification.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160803	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160805	Thank you. Somehow it comes as no surprise that this is the position of the Left, and yet. Because in the municipal elections, which were back in November, I heard a number of fellow members of the rapporteur, who were set up in Copenhagen, say that it would make sense if we were to legalise cannabis, that we could start with a trial period, just as we are proposing. So I just have to say: what has the Left in Copenhagen not understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160838	I would say, then, that I cannot deny, or rather that I have no reason to believe that the information provided by Mrs Lund is incorrect. There may well be people in the Left who are of a different opinion than the one I am quoting. So we're not the kind of party that's concrete-plated. There are some other parties in here who have a little more old-fashioned relations with Eastern Europe. There are no separate positions allowed. It is in the Left and there are some who have different views and we are not the same about this. But I can say that the broad majority of those who draw up the policies of the Left here in Christiansborg are behind what I have said here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160915	Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505160916	Fortunately, it is now publicly known that there is room for major disagreements in the Enhedslisten too, although I can point to some other parties in here where you may have to follow the party line a little more. I'd like to ask Mr. Knox. Preben Bang Henriksen about something else. Because the argument isn't that it will stop the gangs from legalizing cannabis. That is one of the arguments. Another argument is, of course, that the market is quite free today. But that is perhaps what the Left wants as a liberal party. Then you are super comfortable with the fact that the market is completely unregulated, completely unregulated, everyone and anyone can get hold of cannabis, there is no age limit, there is no control over the content of what you buy. The market is free today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505161000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505161001	I understand that we need to abolish it in the case of cannabis, because there are already so many infringements and the market is free, as Mrs Lund says, and she is quite right in that too. Well, shouldn't we be legalizing shoplifting, too? Because there are so many violations going on, and the police do not have time to deal with it, so it might as well be done, or for that matter, the speed of the roads. It is not the case that we legalise something because there are many violations every day. It is deeply regrettable that there are many violations every day, but it is a police task to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505161034	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur and we go to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505161056	Thank you. In 2017, the Danish Health Authority published a report which showed that 48%. of Danes between 16 and 44 years of age had tried cannabis. It is every other person in Denmark, so one can say that cannabis is de facto decriminalised, by the fact that it has not been an obstacle in half the eyes of the population that it has been punishable. On the other hand, it has to be said that it is a very lucrative market for criminals, and the gangs probably have a particular advantage of that. It gives money to the criminal lifestyle, and sometimes they also fight about market shares to a degree, so it affects the community, which must live with shootings and violent assaults. At the same time, we must also recognise that we are sending half of the Danes into the arms of criminal environments, because they are forced to buy the drugs for the weekend or perhaps for their harmful daily consumption by criminals, and, as we know, they very often have a larger range of other things than equal cannabis, which may be less hard, and then there is the possibility of getting acquainted with all sorts of other things. Imagine if we could ensure that our young people would not be sent into the arms of gangs or criminals to cover their consumption. The bottom line is that a not insignificant amount of hashish or cannabis is purchased, if you like, for your own consumption. You may think that this should not be done because it supports a criminal market, but I simply do not believe that it will happen. I'm not gonna stand here and tell you to just smoke away. Of course, cannabis is not harmless, it is not healthy, and I will never argue that it is a good idea as such and that you just have to do so. We also know that the hash coming to Denmark is of a very high quality and that it has a large content of THC, and we also know that consumption can at least send some people in a social deroute that we do not want for anyone. But I don't believe that you can punish yourself out of addiction. One will go a long way to ease one's distrust or whatever it is that is why one has started on harmful consumption, and it is a health problem, and it is not a crime problem. I think we simply need to find another way of dealing with it, and later this year we will also be dealing with a proposal from the SF, in which we have a proposal to introduce the Portuguese model, which has also been mentioned here, and which decriminals the user. We must also recognise that there is a culture in which it is used recreationally. There has certainly been a decrease in young people's consumption according to the Danish Health Authority's report of 2022, but it is a little uncertain whether this is due to the pandemic. It could be imagined there that it is swinging back to the same level, and in SF we therefore believe that it is time for orderly conditions. Cannabis needs to get out of the hands of criminals, and that's why we're co-sponsors of this proposal. We think it is time to test other models, because it has not been effective with either punishment, police or raised fingers alone, and for some years we have had a national meeting decision on the state-authorized sale of cannabis and the decriminalisation of all drugs, as in Portugal. Then I would say that I actually thought I had a very good compromise proposal. Now that we can say what we cannot agree on this proposal, the second best thing could be that we had it examined in depth, all the arguments that fly through the Chamber here, where some shout that there is no evidence, or that there is another study that shows something, and what is the validity of it? Could we not try to gather that knowledge and get it structured and get a look at what it really is that works if consumption is going down? I think it would be a good thing if we could bring consumption down, and what does it take? Could it be a decriminalization, or is it an entire legalisation, or should we hold on to what we have? We basically do not know, because we have never looked into it, and as long as we block that knowledge, like it can be unfolded, I do not believe that we are going to get any further in the debate, even though there have been more parties that either advocate legalisation or decriminalisation over recent years. It does not sound as if I am succeeding in this proposal, but I would just like to say in conclusion that what we support in the SF is decriminalisation, and we have been able to live with the title, which is legalisation, because what is actually in the proposal is decriminalisation and not legalisation. However, along the way in the Secretariat I think there has been a slight error in the proposal, because it originally stated in what I approved that we should not punish those who grow, buy and consume cannabis, and I agree with that. But in some way it has been turned into that it must also be legal to grow. The proposal that has been put forward says this, and we do not, in fact, support it. We support decriminalisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505161626	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is to Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505161630	Thank you very much. I simply do not understand that some of the parties that want to legalise cannabis are the same who ban nicotine products, cigarettes. They say you want to legalize cannabis so that the gangs don't sell it, while at the same time allowing the price of cigarettes to rise, so the gangs now sell cigarettes. I mean, where's the logic? I'd like to hear that. Then you talk about decriminalization in this proposal. No, this is a legalization. There is nothing about what to do in relation to the health of those who depend on it. How to proceed? How can we proceed with the Portuguese model? I would have been a little more positive if we had talked a little more about what to do with the Portuguese model, rather than legalising it. And that is what the proposal is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505161722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505161723	Yes, but if you do legalisation, you would say that everyone should be allowed to act and cultivate it and so on, and that is not what the proposal is about. That is why it is really a decriminalization and we can argue about that. However, I fully agree that it can be difficult to find the contexts of how to deal with cigarettes or cannabis and what it might be. I just basically do not think that one can punish oneself out of the human need either to smoke cigarettes or, for that matter, to smoke cannabis. I think that if you basically want to, you're going to go a long way to do it again. So it is probably something else that needs to be done if we are to work actively to reduce consumption. And unfortunately, I think we have not seen a great deal of results with the efforts we have made in relation to cannabis and other substances in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505161834	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505161835	I agree with some of what the rapporteur says, which is why I think it is really a pity that a proposal is being made to legalise it instead of decriminalising it. Maybe you could've gotten some more people to do something. I would like to ask the rapporteur: where does the proposal say that it is a decriminalisation that you are not taken for the first time when you are taken, but the second time when you are then taken to a commission, as you do in Portugal, where you are then met by a social worker, and where it is looked at as a disease, etc.? It doesn't say anything about it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505161912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505161912-2	No, but I think what the questioner is missing is that the SF has a national meeting decision on a state-authorized sale... not that everyone should be allowed to grow it for themselves, but that the state like controls the whole process. It's decriminalization. And I can read that there is legalisation in the title, but the proposal is really about decriminalising it. Then there has been a small slipper, I think, in the Committee Secretariat. We must not punish those who cultivate it; I agree with that, because it is precisely decriminalisation but does not make it legal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505161952	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505161954	Thank you for a good speech with many good points and the completely right direction. We are probably, presumably, six parties gradually supporting some form of legalisation of cannabis. The problem is that something suggests that we have six different legalisation models/decriminalisation models. Now it seems that the SF is voting against this resolution because the right to home cultivation is included. If it was the case that in all the proposals we made we only accepted the tiny variant we had ourselves, then I do not think we got far. Isn't it time we started to find a common model, decriminalization, legalization, or something, instead of caring for our own little Hassans? Isn't it about us now using this growing positive attitude in the people and in the Folketing to find a common model and then be ready to cut a small toe and cut a heel? Well, in the alternative, we also have a model we really want, but we have to give ourselves. Why don't we all give ourselves a little something and get a common model?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505162104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505162104-2	Now it is a little bit that I feel obliged to take decisions at national level, and that is why I cannot just let go of it when we have precisely a policy that we have adopted in this area. Having said that, I think the rapporteur is right. We need to build to some extent a bridge over the differences we have, and that is why I actually think my own compromise proposal to set up a commission is good, so where we say that okay, we are now putting some other wise usurys to look at what we can do to get better solutions simply. However, I do not see the majority in my view who would like to ensure that such a commission is set up so that we can have the best possible proposal. At any rate, I can only see that what we have done is inadequate, and that is why it simply calls for us to turn the boat in one way or another and that we are doing something else. That is why I think that a test system here would be a good idea so that we could have some experience.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505162204	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505162205	The alternative supports a commission. We also support decriminalisation. We would be sorry for legalisation without the right to home cultivation, but if so, let us talk about it. We just have to move on. But I get curious about SF's model, because as far as I can see, you've found a mix between legalization and decriminalisation. Because in Portugal and in the Netherlands it is the ultimate link that has been decriminalized, but it is still the rockers who sell it. Now the rapporteur says that the rapporteur thinks that this proposal is sympathetic because it will be taken out of the hands of criminals. This is not done by decriminalisation, because it is allowed to have little on it and it is allowed to sell it in coffeeshops, for example. Holland. But it's still gone the rockers who sell it. Can the rapporteur just clean it up a little bit so that I can understand it a little better?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505162256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505162257	Well, I can try to try, anyway. What we have a decision on is a state-authorized sale, and that is actually where we think the state should handle the process. But that does not mean that at the same time we say that God and every man should cultivate it, at least not without a license that is, what can be said, determined by the state in some way. I think it would make us get it out of the claws of criminals. I would like us to avoid that meeting with young people who go shopping for hashish from criminals and who are also presented with a completely different range of drugs that are even worse than hashish. That's the meeting that I think we can profit from moving into a state-authorized sale. By the way, it would perhaps also become very visible with a state-approved sale, who the young people are, so that we can better target help towards those who have harmful consumption. I think that is actually quite important.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505162358	Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505162401	I just have a very brief question that I feel called to ask on the basis of Mrs Liselott Blixt's question to the rapporteur. This is about the Portuguese model, which we are, in fact, also very much in favour of in the Enhedslisten. I would just like to ask Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt to come up with a more detailed slash to confirm that the Portuguese model is, in fact, about much more about cannabis. This proposal is exclusively about cannabis and a trial period in which, as far as I am aware, the Portuguese model is also about other drugs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505162434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505162435	Well, it is quite true that these are two different models, and we are thus in favour of both: a state-approved sale of cannabis and the Portuguese model, which is about the decriminalisation of all drugs, and which in reality means that you do not go after users, but still have, what can be said, maintained criminalisation of the sponsors. We don't believe that you can punish people to get out of addiction.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505162502	Mrs. Rosa Lund? No, apostates, and then we thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And then we can move on to the Radical Left rapporteur, Mr. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505162520	Thank you, President. After all, we need to discuss the possibility of a temporary trial scheme with the legalisation of cannabis, so that sales can take place under orderly conditions and instead of buying from the criminals on the city, we can buy cannabis in shops that are publicly operated and under a secure framework. But why? We have just heard that the use of cannabis, especially among young people, is increasing and that there are several risks associated with the use of cannabis. There is no doubt that there may be negative consequences in the use of cannabis, especially if it is a very frequent or very high consumption. It affects your cognitive ability and, of course, will affect your daily life, schooling or working life if you are a daily user. The risk of outright abuse and addiction is present. Many people with mental illness use cannabis as self-medication. There is a clear social battle side in cannabis abuse, you come into contact with criminal environments, and therefore there may also be the risk of being introduced to other hard and far more dangerous substances. So with all that in mind, why bring up this proposal at all? Yes, it is precisely because of these challenges that new thinking is appropriate. It is quite obvious that the efforts so far have not worked. It is still incredibly easy to obtain cannabis, and the problem of overuse or social impact has not been solved. On the contrary, it could be pointed out that previous practice has contributed to at least parts of the problem. The risk of being confronted with a serious criminal environment is, of course, due to the fact that it is by its very nature the criminals who are on the market. By legalizing cannabis, you can move it into a controlled environment and therefore eliminate that risk. It also means that you no longer risk being introduced to hard drugs because you have decoupled the two things. At the same time, it is important to point out that research does not show a clear signal that cannabis carries an increased risk of using hard drugs; probably rather that those who already use hard drugs can substitute with cannabis, and here causality is therefore quite essential. And this proposal could potentially help to remedy this problem. Of course, I am not so naive that I believe that this proposal will make all crime disappear, it is clear that the criminal environments will find new sources of income and there will certainly be an illegal market for cannabis. However, one cannot say with good jokes that legalisation will not affect the criminal environment. Of course it will, and the greater the share we can move into the public purses and get away from the criminals, the better it is. There is also a concern that legalisation will lead to a sharp increase in the number of young people starting to use cannabis, but here too there is no clear evidence that this is the case when you look at the experience of other countries that have done just that. On the other hand, there is a well-founded concern that this could lead to greater consumption by those who already have too much consumption, and it is precisely for this reason that it is important that sales should be followed up with a knowledgeable advice and assistance for detoxification. There is no doubt that large and daily cannabis consumption will have major consequences. The same is true of large and daily consumption of another legal drug, alcohol, which also affects daily life, jobs and schooling. Abuse problems are real and must be dealt with as such, whether it is alcohol, cannabis or something else. The aim of this proposal is precisely to get a better hold on the problems that are right in this area. Several have also mentioned the risk of anxiety and psychosis, and it is true that there is a risk of hash psychosis in the large consumption of cannabis. It is there, and therefore abuse must be taken seriously and remedied. However, compared to the second part, this correlation between the use of cannabis and an increased risk or incidence of anxiety and psychosis, it is important to consider whether causality is actually another, namely that it is individuals who have emerging psychosis and who have emerging anxiety and start to calm their symptoms by self-medication. And that is precisely why it is also a good reason to find and help them as best they can, for they will get their cannabis in one way or another. And with this proposal, we have the opportunity to take the market back and find those who have a real abuse and give the help they need. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505162939	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505162942	Yeah, we'll hear double standards again. How much should 1 g of cannabis cost in Denmark when we have to take the market back from the criminals? Should it be cheaper than what the criminals sell it to? I don't know what the price is now when I hear about it, I think it sounds like it costs the same as when I was young, where you also tried to smoke some cannabis. I'd like to hear that. At the same time, the Radical Left is in favour of increasing cigarette prices, and that applies to everything called nicotine products, e-vapor and everything else, because we must ban this, even if it is less dangerous than cigarettes. And now you want to legalize cannabis. So what's 1 g of cannabis gonna cost?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163027-2	First of all, we are not in favour of banning tobacco and nicotine products, because that does not help. As another rapporteur has just said, we cannot ban ourselves out of abuse. We want to make accessibility more difficult and prices higher to reduce consumption, and it is the same here. After all, nobody says it should be for sale to anyone. It is clear that there must be restrictions and age restrictions on who can buy this stuff. It gives itself the same as it is not something you should be able to go down and buy in any kiosk or any supermarket. That is precisely why it must be in controlled forms. As far as the price is concerned, I am not the right person to ask. It's been a few years since I've been in that market myself, so I don't know exactly what the day price is. But it is clear that if we are to have a market that works, we must, of course, take into account the factors that arise, but I do not have a clear answer to that right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163109	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163110	So radicals are gonna help turn the state into a drug dealer to get the gangs away from selling cannabis? Then they'll just sell cigarettes and nicotine products instead, because there's a lot more profit. What is the logic of having a certain attitude towards nicotine products on the one hand, while on the other hand you want to legalize that you start smoking cannabis? I find it hard to see the logic of it. Yes, we need to help some of those who are addicted, but we do not do that simply by legalizing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163148	No one speaks for just legalizing it. It must be controlled and it is exactly the same as with both alcohol and smoking. There is a number for the Stopline on the cigarette packets, and we must of course follow up with help for those who have a real alcohol abuse, and it is the same here. We need to look at how to find those who are vulnerable and those who have an abuse so that they can get the help they need. This isn't about getting more people to smoke. It's about helping those who already do it the best we can, and we do that by knowing where they are, so we can get them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163215	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163238	Thank you. I hardly surprise anyone if I start by saying that the Conservative People's Party cannot support this proposal. We find it inappropriate to decriminalize or legalize cannabis. You just need to talk to a psychiatric employee who can tell about hash psychoses and conditions in which young people are delusional and experience the world harmless, and in some psychoses are longer than just the acute rush that exists. Models such as the Portuguese model have been proposed. In the past, it was Holland that was the great example, and if not another country in a few years' time, it will be me. Summa summarum: In the Conservative People's Party we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163334	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163339	Did the psychosis mentioned by the rapporteur arise under the policy pursued by the government, which Conservatives support?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163354-2	Whether the psychosis has arisen under the policy of the government, which Conservatives support? I mean, the psychoses have arisen because people smoke weed, and weed isn't legal to smoke.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163416	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163418	However, the Conservative People's Party supports a ban. Under that ban, the penalties have increased, the fines have increased and consumption is just increasing. And the psychoses to which the rapporteur refers have, of course, taken place under the ban that Conservatives support. The rapporteur is, I hope, aware of this. That is to say, the terrible things to which the rapporteur refers are happening under the policy supported by the rapporteur, in other words the ban supported by the rapporteur. What is the rapporteur's explanation for all the tens of thousands of young people who have become dependent on cannabis under the conditions and policies supported by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163509	I just don't think I got it, sir. Torsten Gejl's question. Summa summarum is our position on this, that if we legalize cannabis or decriminalize cannabis, there will be more young people who will smoke it. I know, sir. Torsten Gejl refers to a report. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen refers to another, and you can usually find facts for the point of view you have in this debate, because it flows with strange reports. I just want to say: the starting point where you want to make cannabis completely legal, I don't think you'll get more young people to stay far away from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163555	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163558	Thank you. Just such a brief clarification: Is Conservatives' policy in this area based on evidence or on attitudes? When I ask, it's as I've said before because I don't think there's one in this Parliament who wants the abuse to increase or that more people have to smoke hash and use cannabis. I think there is a real concern that what we see is a very large number, not least young people, who are using cannabis and that it is an increasing number. That is why we also have a recognition that the policy being pursued at the moment does not work. So what do we do? Well then, you can say, there is evidence of one and evidence of the other, and it all sticks in different directions; or you can say that now we must try to do something else that leans on what has been done with a reasonable success in other countries. We can never compare it one to one, but we try to do something else for a while, and then we measure it. If it doesn't work, we'll have to evaluate it and try to change course. This requires that you take part in the fact that there is no evidence, but then you can have an attitude, and that attitude can be so chiseled in stone that you really do not care that consumption increases and the abuse increases.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163707	The position we have is actually based on reports. That report, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen refers to, shows precisely that you release cannabis, increase consumption, and crime increases. So yes, Mrs Pernille Vermund, we are actually building our position on evidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163729	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163731	I think that is interesting, because it is not many minutes ago that the rapporteur said that there were reports that could support exactly the view you had, and that made it sound as if you had taken a position, and then you leaned on the report that supports that position. I think that's perfectly legitimate... when it's so hard to find evidence that's similar, as it is in this area. That is also why I am surprised that, on the one hand, we recognise that reports and figures are in every direction; in fact, we can have any view and use a report to support that view. And that's fair enough if that's how you do it and if that's how you set your policy. Or you could say that we are pursuing a policy that does not work. Let's try something else and measure it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163818	One can also read the reports and then qualify them; qualify them according to which reports one seems more credible than others. I think Mrs Pernille Vermund has done the same, otherwise Mrs Pernille Vermund would not take the view she has today. It is not someone who has made a great impression on us. We have been impressed by the fact that experiments have been carried out in the United States where cannabis has been legalised and crime has increased considerably.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163852	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then we can move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505163858	Thank you. A proposal to legalise cannabis may be rejected by the Danish People's Party. There are several reasons for our rejection. A legalisation, we understand, would run counter to the UN Convention on Drugs, as stated in Question No. 645, and I am well aware that none of the parties behind this proposal do not wish to comply with the international conventions that have been signed. In addition to violating the Convention on Drugs, legalisation will also place Denmark as virtually the only European country where the hash is legalized. But one thing is conventions, another is the substance itself, the legalization of hashish. The proposal states that cannabis is decriminalised in the Netherlands. This is not quite true, as the question No. 577. In the Netherlands, we have chosen to overlook the trade that exists. In Europe, Portugal and Malta alone have decriminalised the hash. The proposal emphasises that the consumption of hashish in Portugal is less than before the decriminalised hash. But here the proposers do not get the whole story, because decriminalisation was precisely the result of a drug addiction that had run completely off. So, in addition to decriminalisation, a number of other drug-retardant measures, massive interventions, among others. against the violent abuse; you got more or less cleaned up. So to say that, if we decriminalize or legalize the hash, it will mean a small amount of spending just look to Portugal then it is in our eyes to read numbers wrong. In the Netherlands, a very liberal model has been used in the past, but it got sick and tired of hash tourism, which is why they limited it to dealing only with people living in the Netherlands. Something similar will happen here. We are doing a lot to limit the sale and use of both ordinary tobacco and alcohol, and it must be hidden away for consumers in stores, there must be no advertising, one must have a certain age to buy it, etc., why should we go exactly the opposite way and legalize cannabis with the argument that 40 years of effort have not worked? As an argument for legalisation, the proposal indicates that it is expected to have an impact on gang problems. We doubt that, which is also confirmed by the fact that the National Police consider that it will not cut out the gangs, and they will quickly find other ways to make money. In addition, the police estimate that the gangs will try to maintain a market, and they will be able to do so by providing a cannabis that has a higher share of THC, i.e. the active substance in hashen, and then, of course, compete on the price. Nor do we believe that criminals will give up a lucrative market, they will think of something else. So with regard to the proposal, I would say that it violates an international convention and the gangs will certainly not disappear. Instead, we would rather, precisely in order for the ban to work, the authorities are making massive campaigns in which they tell about the harmful effects of cannabis, just as they regularly do with normal tobacco and alcohol. Finally, I would like to point out that cannabis given on prescription and thus under medical supervision, for example against severe pain, is of course another and very positive story. Here it is, we have understood, however, very, very expensive for the patient to buy it if you are to have it regularly, and perhaps something should be done about that by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505164239	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505164243	Thanks for the speech. I don't know if it can make a difference to DF, that this thing with the convention... that's right... can be solved. So it can be solved in that way that you can withdraw from it, and then you can legalize the slash of criminalising it and rejoin. Germany is also in the process of legalisation, and they have to solve it. If it is the case that that detail can be resolved in a sensible way, will it soften DF's attitude towards this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505164313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505164315	It might be interesting if Mr. Torsten Gejl had the same view in relation to other conventions that we have signed up to, that is, that we can just get out of them, and then we will implement exactly the legislation we want and then we will join again. I think I will propose that next time; if I want a very broad majority in the Folketing, I can easily come up with conventions where Denmark is so much abused. So thanks for the good tip we'll be working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505164338	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505164340	That was a very good answer, though a little comical. No, well, it turns out that the UN has moved cannabis from the most harmful list, so there is also movement. But my question was actually real. If this is the case with the United Nations Convention on Drugs, like Germany, like Switzerland, like probably Italy, and the countries on the way with legalisations will have to do so, would it soften the position of the DF?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505164412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505164413	I therefore believe that this is an unrealistic proposal. So, I do not think any government will commit itself to making such a snapshot solution in the context of conventions, and neither will we. There are, as I said, many conventions that we would like to see abolished, but this must be done in the proper way and not in the sort of hokuspocus solutions that Mr. Torsten Gejl suggests.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505164435	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we shall move on to the rapporteur of the new citizens. It's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505164441	After all, it is a pleasure to come up after a debate between DF and the Alternative, where DF insists on being a part of a convention and that it prevents us from deciding the policy ourselves in our own country, and then the alternative says: 'But we can just sign up and make reservations, and then we can rejoin; it's not that difficult, it's also other countries that do. I'm completely confused, and it really isn't because I've taken anything. I keep on the path of virtue of the law as well as I can. We have a real problem with this in Denmark. There are an increasing number of Danes and especially young people who have not only tried hashish once, but who also use hashish. There is an increasing number of young people who are confronted with hashish in their daily lives, as I mentioned in one of the questions. I have three boys. The two largest have been in both secondary school and are now in high school, and both in secondary school in the neat North Zealand there are real problems with people coming and selling hashish just outside the school area, and the school managers are boxing with it. Sometimes it goes away, and sometimes it's back. I myself have confronted someone at a third school in our neat area, which I mentioned earlier. The police said: we are not doing anything about that because we do not have the resources to do so. This is one of the many crimes in our society that have de facto been decriminalised because the police have no resources to deal with it. The police have the resources to clear Pusher Street sometimes, and they spend a lot of resources on it, but that doesn't make the problem go away. If we agree that we do not want more young people to become addicted to hashish and that more young people should not risk a psychosis because they have taken hashish once too much, then we must also agree that we must then find out what we are doing instead of what we are doing today, because what we are doing today does not seem obvious. The policy pursued in the same direction has led to only one development, and it is a development in increasing consumption and increasing numbers of young people who are taking advantage of it here. If we agree on that and we also agree on what has been mentioned many times here during the day that the evidence that is in this area is in every direction, what do we do? You can always find a report that says one thing or the other, and you can never say anything else equal, because then they have introduced other things at the same time in Portugal, and what would have happened if they had not done so? There are other problems in the United States. There are some groups of people who are incomparable to how we are relatively good at caring for each other in Denmark, etc. etc. If we agree that we do not want this problem and we agree that we do not have sufficient evidence to lean on, what do we do? We are not happy just to let go, but we recognise that this is a real problem, and so we also think it is reasonable to make a trial period in which we try to do it in orderly conditions: if this is to be sold, let us make sure that it is sold, so that it is only for people over 18 years of age, people living in Denmark, just as the motion for a resolution says. We sell it in places that are controlled. We also ensure that the money that comes in from the sale is used to prevent and treat those who need treatment for abuse, and then we evaluate. Then we know what works in Denmark and what does not work in Denmark. Then we do not have to look to the United States or Portugal or the Netherlands, where it is quite impossible to say anything else equal because there are so many other things that are different. That's why we support this. The only appeal we have is in relation to the price. If we are really going to make this a solution that works, then we need to have a price that is lower than on the illegal market. Let us now make sure that it is a market price so that it is a price that means that selling hashish will be completely irrelevant for the illegal market. Yeah, well, then I get that there's still gonna be gangs; then they're gonna sell something else. That is a condition; we are fighting it by other means. For me, this isn't about fighting gangs. For me, it is about the young people who are being confronted today by salesmen, including the gangs. Upstairs with us, it's probably not gangs or at least not real gangs; it's people around, these semi-criminated young groups. So that's not what this is about for me. For me, it's about the kids. If we are to get rid of this problem, we must outbid the price of the illegal market. We're gonna have to control the sale of this, and then we're gonna have to do a trial period where we evaluate afterwards. I think it is so unfortunate that there are these areas which really divide us and where it is chiseled in stone that one position or the other is taken instead of saying: what is the aim? And how can we move there together? Could we not just try it for once, if only for the sake of the young people, as soon as the Social Democrat rapporteur's own children, who have not yet reached this age, hit the age at which they run the risk of being confronted by gangs or others who sell it on the illegal market? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505164957	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165001	I am quite embarrassed to have made Mrs Pernille Vermund wandered around, which I understand happened. I haven't been able to do this for many years, but I'm happy about it. Furthermore, I will try to get Mrs Pernille Vermund back on the ground and admit to me that there are good conventions and then there are miserable conventions. In other words, we can mention the Vienna Convention, the Geneva Convention, the Convention on drugs as good, and such things as conventions on human rights, which Mrs Pernille Vermund knows everything about, as wretched conventions. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165033	I think that what is the difference between whether we can regard conventions as good or bad is the extent to which they are in line with the legislation we want in our own country and the extent to which it has been implemented in Danish law, understood in the sense that the Convention on Human Rights and, in particular, the Court of Justice bind us to take decisions that a majority of the Folketing would not otherwise have taken. If we wanted to make such a trial period here and could not do so, I do not agree that it would be a good convention, because then it would be a convention that sat above what a majority in the Folketing wanted, if it were the case that a majority in the Folketing wanted it. That this is a problem which is at a different level from what both the rapporteur and I are concerned about, we are then in agreement. I can be around on the floor and still have a ground connection. That's the advantage of being such a little one as I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165134	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165135	But then, I think that Mrs Pernille Vermund agrees with me that there are conventions that are valuable. Take e.g. the rules of war in the context of the Geneva Convention and diplomacy in the context of the Vienna Convention. There are some things that I think are very, very important in order to get through a normal life at all, no matter where you are, precisely if there is war and accident. And that is really my point, so I think it is essential to say that there are some who are good and then some who are miserable. I am not going to put the words in the mouth of Mrs Pernille Vermund I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165210	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165211	We can definitely agree that from our perspective there are some that are good and some that we are less in agreement with. If we take the stateless convention, we think it is quite hopeless that as a country we should be forced to give citizenship to some people with whom, when we look at the consequences of it, we have very bad experiences. So from our colored political point of view there are good and bad conventions. But conventions are conventions, and the conditions that apply to them are the same, whether they be one or the other. The difference is, of course, to what extent they have been incorporated into Danish law, and it has to be said that if this is not incorporated into Danish law, then we have an easier relationship with such a convention than we have with, for example, Denmark. the Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165255	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165256	I would really just like to thank New Citizens for being another progressive voice in the cannabis debate and call for us together, all probably six proparties, to find out how we can create a common model that we can just as quietly mature and get through, so that we can succeed here in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165329	Well, thank you. I think that it is really about the fact that if you share the goal, it may well be that you do not always agree on the road, but if the path you take now does not work, you have to try something else. And trial periods or referenda can be a way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165342	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then we can go to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165355	Thank you for the floor. Alcohol is an organic solvent and therefore it is best to mix it with fruit or grain that has been through a processing process. But the very fact that you can drink an organic solvent if it is refined for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. Alcohol is rooted in a tradition that goes all the way back to time. One of Plato's main works is called Symposium. It means drinking feasts, and alcohol is also part of the ritual at the supper. That is why it is acceptable, even if it has major harmful effects when using it becomes an abuse. Cannabis is not rooted in a tradition in this country. There are, as Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt said, many who have probably tried, but fewer who have inhaled, as a well-known politician once said. People my age remember Lone Kellermann in 1977 recorded Tjallesangen with text by Dan Turèll. But it didn't create a popular movement, and that's why the authorities have always seen hashish crooked. When we propose a 5-year trial period, it is because we would like to reach out to the opponents of free cannabis. We accept that there may be doubts about what will happen if cannabis is released. But as Mr. Stinus Lindgreen earlier said in this Chamber what is absolutely today's joke: our figures on cannabis are crooked. However, doubts are not ultimately an argument for anything. Therefore, the best thing we can do is try to replace the doubt with knowledge, and that is what you do best by making an attempt. But the government is not even prepared for the doubts that prevail and that Mrs Pernille Vermund is right, too, to be replaced by greater certainty. That is why it does not just say no to making cannabis legal; it even says no to the fact that as a society we are trying to learn more about what a changed and more liberal attitude to cannabis would mean for Danish society. That is regrettable, but of course we have to take note of that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165638	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Free Greens, Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165657	Thank you. Now we have heard several people say that half of us have tried to smoke hashish. There are other countries where attempts have been made and have not seen the possibility of more young people becoming pot smokers. Perhaps more of those who are big consumers are going to consume more, and then we are talking about abuse, and of course we have to deal with that. That is precisely what we will be able to do if we start such an experiment, because then it will be legal, and then we will be able to limit it and tackle where there are problems. 'Cause it's not gonna be abuse. By legalizing hashish, we pull the curtain away under the criminal environment, at least to a large extent. And we help those users who use cannabis to maintain a reasonable everyday life and to create the good life. Right now, there are indeed many users who are being criminalised, which is quite unreasonable when it is exactly what helps them to have a good everyday life. Although we are now getting more products on the shelves... cannabis products like medical cannabis products... they are very few products, and we need many more to take care of the people who need it in their daily lives. Right now they must either have it in the backyard and risk being criminalised by it, or they buy it online with the uncertainty it entails. If we get it into stores, we have the opportunity to make sure that it is good products and that you can get it in stores, so you don't have to go into creepy smokes or buy it illegally elsewhere. Of course, about the police and their challenge of distinguishing between legal and illegal cannabis, there is a solution that is very easy, namely to bring a receipt. Well, then that problem is solved. Other countries' experience with consumption, which shows that it does not increase, seems to me to be a very important background for us to make an attempt. At the same time, when the WHO has shifted it from the restrictive category 1 to the least restrictive category 4, it is also a signal that we must change direction. Many countries have started making an attempt. This could also enable us to get started, gain some experience and find out how we deal with it and whether there are any problems with it at all. So, of course, the Greens support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505165950	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur of the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505170001	Thank you, President. The alternative also supports the resolution. I am a little sorry that this debate is marked by the fact that I simply do not think that the government is getting to grips with things properly. I think it will be visions, feelings and personal logic. The ban on cannabis has failed, certainly. The penalty has increased, the fines have increased, consumption has increased, and there were, the last time I spoke, up to 20,000 young people who are dependent on cannabis, and this has happened on this government's watch. That is why I am surprised that there is no desire whatsoever to try to look at decriminalization or legalisation, just as you do in many places in the world. That's the way things go just as quietly. If you legalized cannabis, and took it out of the hands of criminal environments, and as New Citizens say it requires a fierce price war, inexorable price war... it is clear that it will not make the gangs disappear, but if the estimated revenue in Denmark is 4-5 billion. kr., it means something to get taken 4-5 billion. kr. out of the hands of any organization plus a great deal of staff, for at least the alternative idea would be to make a free lease scheme for drug dealers and teachers who have done no more crime than sell cannabis so that they can get to the right side of the law and sell cannabis from approved stores. In this way, the criminal gangs lose a lot of staff in addition to losing a lot of money. For the fact that they are just making just as much money from trafficking in women or cigarettes etc., I would say that they have saturated those markets. It is not the case that the rockers are thinking: we are leaving a few markets open, because then we can make 1 billion. kr. the day we want to. It is clear that those markets have already been tried and tested, so it is not just the case that a new market is being spotted, because then the rockers would have done so already. So it is clear that it would be really, really bad news for the criminal networks that sell cannabis on the streets and streets and in all cracks and in our schools, everywhere, undeclared, to our children and young people, without there being any kind of control of it under the government's prohibition policy. That is also why, in the end, many states in the United States have chosen to legalise or decriminalise, in other words because the ban seems incredibly hopelessly poor. Then we've talked about investigations. I have tried to get involved in many of the countries that have legalised cannabis, and some of the things I have been very interested in is whether consumption is rising or falling. And there I was recently confirmed in P1 by someone from the Center for Drug Research that it does not rise, that it does not fall, but goes roughly straight up if that is how you look at it in general. So there is no increased tendency for consumption to be increased. On the other hand, you earn a lot of billions of dollars, which you can use for prevention, just as you do for cigarettes, as you do elsewhere, using them for treatment. I think perhaps in reality that the most important thing about treatment is that people get so poor that they use cannabis or other things in their lives to get through life. So you might have to raise the mental level of society if you want to get rid of cannabis and hard drugs and alcohol abuse and all the abuses we have. As far as the United Nations is concerned, my latest information is in fact that the United Nations has said to Austria that they will not punish Austria for legalising cannabis, and that is because, as I understand it, cannabis has been removed from the hard list and is looking at it more mildly now. Whatever the case, we have had this discussion many times, and I hope that we will find some consensus to come together and make some common models and some joint proposals, like a commission, because let us be happy to have things examined in depth, instead of having six parties with each of our legalisation models, because then we can simply go and say that we are in favour of the legalisation of cannabis or the decriminalisation of cannabis, but we are just not doing it if it is precisely not about our small model. I really hope that there will be flexibility in finding a common model, preferably on the basis of a Commission, so that we can move forward with this, just as modern countries in Europe and throughout the world do. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505170504	Thank you for that and there are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and we can go further, Mrs Liselott Blixt, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505170515	Thank you very much. I think it is a pity that this debate confuses so many different things. I think it is a pity that it is not a Minister of Justice who could sit and talk about punishment measurements on some of the weakest we have, if it is that you are being taken with cannabis in your pocket. I think it is sad that we are mixing legalisation with decriminalisation, and that makes us have a distorted debate instead of looking at what we can use cannabis for. Cannabis is a great product that some people can use if they are ill. There are many different diagnoses where you benefit from getting medical cannabis. The problem is that it's really, really expensive and that it's really, really hard to get out of here. After all, we have discussed this with the Minister for Health, in terms of how we can do this better. So I might sometimes be inclined to say: Well to help the sick, so let's legalize it. The problem is that we also see young people, and they will not be subject to legalisation. It's still gonna have to put it on the criminal market, and they're still gonna get psychoses. And yes, I've tried smoking weed, and yes, I've inhaled. I have been to coffee shop in the Netherlands and I know a lot of young people who have smoked hashish and maybe still do it. I also met them in psychiatric wards when we came out with section 71, and they told how they got psychoses and got really scared and got anxious and maybe didn't move forward after the diagnosis they had got. I've seen young people stalling in their education and just sitting at home smoking. And it's not because it's expensive, because the price has changed since I was young. I remember it once cost about 50 kroner. for one gram, and you can certainly get it for today. So the question is, what's the government gonna take for that $20?? Because if you buy cannabis today and can get some discount, you can get it for 40 kroner. So you can see that I know a lot about it, and I have also spoken to a Portuguese who is actually working on that model. And I'd like us to look at that model. Because first they say this isn't a legalization, it's a decriminalization. When we take some of these little fish that have something on their pockets, and it's also heroin, ecstasy and cocaine, we don't punish, we help. The first time they are allowed to go, the second time they come into a so-called Commission, and there they talk to a doctor, lawyer and social worker, and then you can say that the punishment is that they cannot do anything social so that they can move on. So it's not just that you legalize it, and then you can smoke and do whatever you want. And in relation to this gang thing, I mean, honestly, they're gonna figure out how to make money, and especially now they're gonna be able to sell cigarettes. There are also some who want the price up to 100-120 kr. for a single pack of cigarettes. Wow, these gangs can make a lot of money. But could we not look at how we will be able to secure cannabis for those who need it as a medicine, that is to say medicine? I'm also reaching where you can say: Well, you can have five plants in the window. Because we have discussed this too. Because why does the state have to make a profit selling cannabis? There are also some who believe that we should fail the price. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, The gangs just want to dump it even more, because it's not expensive out there today. Everyone can get it, so it won't make us get less of it. Some people have said something about Portugal and now I am looking at the study I have. Portugal has always been low compared to how many people have smoked cannabis, but they have very many deaths, and that is why the Portuguese model was made. When it was decriminalized, more people started smoking hashish and fewer people died from drug abuse. But as this proposal for legalization is made, we in our six-man cooperation group cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505170945	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505170948	Thank you for a speech with some personal insight. Yes, it is true that if we are to wrestle it out of the hands of the rockers, we must engage in a fierce price war. But there's actually something I want to ask you. It sounds as if the rapporteur is in favour of the Portuguese model, and I would like to say that, if it is also the same as the rapporteur's six-man group, then in fact I think it is a very, very big step today. In the Portuguese model, in the opinion of the Alternative, there are a great many wise things to pick up. It is, of course, a decriminalisation, but as the rapporteur also says, I believe that the consumption of hard drugs in Portugal has gradually halved in view of this, and the consumption of hard drugs in Denmark is also far too high. So I would just like to welcome that point of view, and I think that is incredibly interesting. Now we're not here, but we're closer to something you might be able to meet about by good cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505171054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505171056	Thank you very much, but I have actually talked about this a few years ago and that I would also like to work on how we could decriminalise, in other words how we help those who are addicted. I have also been one of those who have helped ensure that we made prescribed heroin, and then you could also make prescribed cannabis when you have someone who is so dependent that they are sick of it, and they have some challenges, and you ensure that you do some prevention, and that you do something social, so that they can see a way out. Because sometimes there's a reason you get addicted, and that's whether it's cannabis or alcohol or nicotine. So sometimes there are some reasons why you like to soothe it a little. So, yes, I'd like to work out that we can decriminalize some of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505171141	Sir. Torsten Gejl apostates. Then it's Mrs. Rosa Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505171145	Thanks for the speech. It is only in the title that legalisation is included in this proposal. The content of the proposal is a decriminalisation. In any case, I would like to say that this should not be what separates us, and that is why there is just a call for the cooperation group, if we can call it that, to take an active part in the committee reading of this so that we can be as many as possible who press the green buttons when this proposal comes to the vote. Because I think that will be healthy for those parties which, frankly, refuse to do anything at all in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505171225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505171226	However, we are already working actively because Karina Adsbøl has been given funds in negotiations with the Minister for Justice to examine the Portuguese model. So there's something going on. So we are sure to take a look at how we can make a Danish model, just as Norway has made theirs, with a look at the Portuguese model.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505171249	Then we thank the rapporteur and then we go to the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mrs Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505171306	Thank you for that and thank you for what I think has been a good debate where people have been very committed. I think that is also something about the perpetual nature of this question. This is certainly not the first time that I, as a legal rapporteur, have been able to discuss this in the Chamber. For 40 years the Danish state has been trying to combat the use of cannabis by the population, and the result of the attempt to combat it is a lot of billions wasted, countless gang conflicts and a Danish police who, instead of fighting trafficking in human beings, sexual abuse or something as simple as solving burglary, need to prioritize their resources on the government's and previous government's fight against cannabis. That is, in fact, one of the main reasons why we are here today. One thing is that there is also a health aspect to cannabis, I recognise that, and I will come back to that a little later, but where the ban on cannabis affects society the most, it is not in relation to health, it is primarily in the area of justice. We know that the gang dispute is largely about the hash market, we know that the police are spending enormous resources fighting the gangs as well as the hash market, and we know that the police struggle has had no effect on cannabis consumption. When we, as legal rapporteurs, four legal rapporteurs, are involved in putting forward this proposal I also see other legal rapporteurs in the Chamber who are not co-sponsors and we put the proposal before the Legal Affairs Committee because that is where we think it belongs, then I simply do not understand why there is no Minister for Justice present in the Chamber. Yes, cannabis affects health, but sales of cannabis affect many areas. So I could also ask: why is it not the Minister for Children and Education who is taking this proposal, since we know that young people are smoking cannabis? Why is the Minister of Finance not present in the Chamber? Because we know that legalisation of cannabis will lead to greater revenue for the state. And why isn't there really an agricultural minister in the room? It is probably the Minister for Agriculture who has managed how a local production of cannabis in Denmark could take place. I have nothing against the Minister for Health, but I think this should have been dealt with under the Ministry of Justice, as most of the challenges we face in society, related to cannabis, are below the jurisdiction. We have also heard from the Socialist rapporteur earlier today that we are leaning on the assessments and figures of the police, because the Health Authority cannot see into the future. We must then conclude that the police can then. The police minister is just not present in the Chamber, so we cannot get an answer there either, and I think that is a pity for the debate. If we then look at the health aspect, I can easily follow the issues of abuse that have been highlighted. Fortunately, very few people can develop psychosis based on cannabis intake. However, this is still a real problem that we need to address. But we know from other countries that have legalised cannabis that there is no increase in consumption to track. So the health challenges of cannabis intake will not be worse or better if we legalize it. As I said before to the Socialist rapporteur, it is the case that consumption is going to increase, on the basis of what the police say, and not on the basis of what the Health Authority says, to go into a shoe shop to ask if you have tooth holes or ask for another problem to be solved. Well, there's something here that doesn't add up. The health aspect cannot be an argument for not legalising. On the contrary, legal outlets with trained staff allow us to offer much better and targeted treatment to the group of citizens who consume cannabis to an extent that is demanding treatment and consume cannabis to an extent that is an abuse. We also remove the illegal market for cannabis and thus ensure that it will be very difficult for minors to reach. It's not hard for minors to get hold of today. I now come back to the legal aspect of the problem, because it is the most important one for us in the Enhedslisten. Despite the fact that the police seize 5 tonnes of hashish annually on average, it is a gigantic amount similar to that you can make approx. 20 million joints have no problem supplying the entire market. I live on the inner Nørrebro myself, and in a radius of 500 metres from where I live, there are at least three places where there is someone on the street selling something that is illegal. You can also see that there can be queues if you go through Nørrebroparken. And we have also heard that this is happening even in Mrs Pernille Vermund's neat neighbourhood in another part of the country. Prohibition makes no difference in relation to neither supply nor demand. An argument I've often heard in connection with gang conflicts... and it's also been advanced today... is that if you legalize cannabis, the gangs just find something else criminal to do. I just have to say that I am almost one hundred percent sure that if anyone could see an untapped criminal market for where money could be made, then they were already well in the process. It's not like you're thinking that I have my weed business, and then I don't want to spend time stealing designer furniture or whatever else you could imagine there's a crime today. As long as there are some who demand it, there are some who deliver it, whether it is legal or not. There it is just that we in the Enhedslist think it is cooler that the police spend their time on far more serious crime than the hash trade. If there is a new way of making money, then it will certainly also be exploited, whether we have legalised cannabis or not. Although it is criminal to buy and sell cannabis, there is still a large proportion of the Danes who choose to consume it. The fines have increased gradually and the police around, for example. Christiania has also in recent years been marked by a great focus on hitting the individual buyer, and yet the statistics have not changed, and this is not only true in Denmark. Because you can buy cannabis all over the world, although in many countries it is illegal in the same way as in Denmark. Despite the fact that the new report by the Danish Health Authority of March 2022 on the spread of illegal drugs in the population and among young people, a slight decrease in consumption over the last 3 years, the Danish Agency itself states that overall there has been a stable intake over the last 20 years. So what do we actually achieve with this ban? I find it very difficult to see the benefits. We're not really achieving anything. On the contrary, there are many advantages in legalizing it. In addition to the removal of billions from the criminal world, there is also, as has already been said, a great potential for better health care. In addition, the police can give priority to their resources, and there is even a chance that legalisation will lead to increased revenue in the Treasury, and it will be essential to use the proceeds of that cannabis sale on, for example, the United Kingdom. treatment of abuse, e.g. A better psychiatry, as Mrs Liselott Blixt mentioned, is lacking in resources. I agree with that. So it's just to say that this isn't really about us thinking that cannabis should just be freely available... dear colleagues, it is today... but this is about taking the market back to get control of it. It is precisely that we want to ensure that it must be more controlled to get hold of the fact that it must be harder for young people to get hold of. If you're a rocker or a gang criminal, you don't care if the person who comes and buys a lump of hash from you is mentally vulnerable, is under 18 years old, is an addict, completely indifferent, because it's about making money. So we will see a much healthier system and we will be able to control what is being sold much better if we take the market back, and that is the purpose of the proposal, and I have to say that we have even written in that it must be a trial period. After all, we do not come here and propose to apologize for the choice of words... a revolution of the market. We'll come and propose a trial period. I think that is actually safe, and that means that we can evaluate it at the end of the trial period. Then I have to stress once again that I have nothing against the Minister for Health, but that I find it disappointing that the government does not regard this as the legal policy issue it is. There is a reason why the legal rapporteurs are on the proposal and there is a reason why we have put it through the Legal Affairs Committee. Thank you for the floor and for the debate, not least. I am very much looking forward to the committee reading because I believe that there are, in fact, more things we can meet on than just as it is formulated in the proposal. So we look forward to that very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505172225	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505172241	The debate is open and we will give the floor to the Minister for Health first.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505172308	Thank you. The next proposal we are about to address is in the same subject area. Here the proposal is then a proposal to issue a referendum on the legalisation of cannabis. So we are in the legalization of the cannabis issue, and my position and the attitude of the government are well known. We have just discussed the position of that and that of all political parties. I think this has been a very, very interesting debate. I also think that the debate we just had on the same subject here has been characterised by the complexity of this issue and how difficult it is, but of course also the major consequences, deep consequences, for the individual, to be dependent on cannabis as a drug. Several of the rapporteurs and I myself referred to the Department of Health's note, which has been sent to the Danish Parliament. I think it would be helpful if, in this proposal too, we took a little more time to get to grips with it, also because the proposal here is for a referendum, where the proposers propose that we put out a referendum and the Danes have to put their cross. Such a report here, I believe, is the responsibility of the parliamentary system, representative democracy, to read and understand and consult experts about and understand the complexity of. I could fear referendums on issues which may sound like yes or no on the surface may sound simple and easy, but which may have profound consequences for the individual. You have to know that. And I might fear that such reports, which I know the rapporteurs read and read down and form their opinion, do not always appear on the front page of newspapers and other things in their entirety. Let me just try to delve into a few of the conclusions reached by the Danish Health Authority in the report called Cannabis • the current knowledge about the effects of russian influences, harmful effects and prevalence. The acute effects include: impaired attention, memory and psychomotor performance during rushes and poisoning psychoses. Among other things, it mentions: Also harmful effects of prolonged, frequent consumption: development of dependence, increased risk of chronic bronchitis and respiratory impairment, deterioration of awareness and memory and motor coordination during daily use. This leads to negative effects on the functioning of training, complex tasks and traffic, increased risk of psychotic symptoms and increased risk of respiratory cancer. And then there are some special consequences that I would also like to dive into and also think are relevant and that we did not have enough room for in our last discussion. It is, among other things, that it has been shown that individuals for up to 24 hours after a single cannabis rush have reduced their ability to perform very complicated actions, and this leads, according to the Danish Health Service, to the fact that the cannabis sufferer is unfit to drive motor vehicles for so long thereafter. Depending on the concentration and frequency of the intake of THC, cannabis can be detected in the blood for up to 40 days after ingestion. Using cannabis, psychotic conditions can be seen. It will be about acute poisoning psychosis. Below it is a drug that we must try to keep our young people away from, and we know how addictive this drug is. When you see what it means, if you take it during pregnancy in relation to the birth weight of the fetus, there is reduced head size in the newborn, reduced birth length, changes in the child's immune system and worse response to infections. Studies have also shown that use of cannabis during pregnancy poses an increased risk of hospitalization in intensive care of the newborn, and symptoms and conditions may be observed in the newborn, which occurs to varying degrees, e.g. withdrawal symptoms such as agitation, irritability, sitren, muscle twitching, restless sleep and disturbed circadian rhythm. I'm saying this because I think it's important that the Folketing has a serious role to play in this. We all agree that there are too many who are addicted to hashish and who consume cannabis all too often and get into these psychoses and get these serious problems. There's also a lot of concern, and I'm glad to see it, about the gang crime surrounding this illegal market. But what we really need to focus on is that this is not a harmless substance. Sometimes in the public debate you have the impression that it is just something that is hardly harmful. It's not something you risk something about. It's a harmful substance, and basically the whole health profession agrees to dissuade and agree on the seriousness and, of course, see these psychoses and these violent, violent consequences, especially among the vulnerable, especially among the mentally vulnerable, especially the very young. These are the elements in which I believe we must dive. After all, we do so everywhere else where we discuss such elements. There's a lot of things we're discussing in this Parliament hall, and we're gonna have to take that responsibility to dive into something like that. The parties will then have to consider what to do in other countries, what to do and how to achieve our goals in the best possible way. But it is, I believe, a responsibility that must be assumed as a member of the legislative assembly in such a democracy as the Danish one. This brings me to a few words about the element of referendums: I believe that it has an important place in our democracy, and it is also reflected in the Constitution, which provides for a referendum on constitutional changes, changes in the electoral age, the surrender of sovereignty, and when the Folketing decides on the basis of a referendum on a special legislative proposal. The latter is, in fact, the case when, on 1 June, we are going to vote on Denmark's participation in European cooperation in the field of security and defence. However, in the absence of such proposals of a very fundamental nature, I believe that our democratic form is representative democracy. We have a well-functioning representative democracy in Denmark. There is a towering turnout if you compare with almost all other countries. There is a lively, intense democratic debate. The turnout tends to be around 85%, perhaps even slightly, in parliamentary elections. Let us look at when there was a vote on the patent court back in 2014. Voice turnout was 55.9%. It was even at the same time that there were elections to the European Parliament. I think it would be incredibly unfortunate if this Parliament were to begin to issue such referendums on various individual elements, and I would fear that we will get a long way into voting. I think experience shows that here, and so it is a minority who are just going to engage and read about the complexity of a proposal that votes. It may be that those who support it show up. There I think it should be the case that we have a Parliament made up of politicians who spend their lives in here reading the material and then legislate in Denmark. If they legislate on points where the population disagrees, they have the right, after four years, to replace the majority, as happens on a regular basis here in Denmark. This brings me to the conclusion that just as much as we could not support the previous proposal, the government cannot support this proposal either, either in terms of the content of legalisation or the element of referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173230	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173233	Now the Minister mentioned a great many harmful effects of cannabis. Some are documented, some are completely undocumented. But let us say that the Minister himself believes in them all. It can then be said that it is some that arise in the situation we are in at the moment, where the fines are rising, the penalties are rising and consumption is saying. In other words, the ban has been completely bankrupt. But what this resolution is actually about is not whether the government is in favour of cannabis or not, it is, of course, whether the people should be allowed to have an indicative referendum. I think there will be a high percentage of votes, because it is, of course, in connection with a parliamentary election. In other words, you still have to go there. My feeling is that this is something that concerns really, very many Danes, also many more Danes, than is taken up by the patent court. I find it difficult to compare those things. My question to the Minister is: why on earth should the Danes not be allowed to decide or at least guide us?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173338	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173339	All the facts I read out here are from the National Health Service's report. There's not one of the things I've Google me up to or made up, of course. Everything I read out, I have read directly from the report by the Danish Health Service, where they also write about the spread that according to the studies that there are, that is survey surveys, the proportion of the population who say that they have tried cannabis has remained fairly stable over the past many years of about 20 years. 40% It is the Danish Health Authority's assessment of this. So according to the Danish Health Authority's assessment here, it's not true that there's a major explosion. The problem is there. The problem is massive. That's what I started by saying. But the second question is: should we start having more referendums? Then you can get a lot of them. This is one subject. There may be a great many other referendums. I'm not in favour of that. I am in favour of the Danish form of democracy, which is a representative democracy, in which the legislators take responsibility for putting a society together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173442	Thank you. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Torsten Gejl the word again? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173443	Thank you. We have another referendum on the way, which is also about complicated drugs. It is really, really complicated material. It is also about life and death, and where the government is in favour of a yes. There you do a very, very great piece of information. So it's not so hard to enlighten and create a big discussion. It is a bit like the government is only going to issue referendums, as it itself is in favour of a 'yes' vote, or it is hoping for it. In any case, it sounds a little like you don't want to do this because the government has something against it. Shouldn't the Danes be allowed to decide for themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173518	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173519	It's not like that. As I explained in my speech, there are some rules in relation to the constitution, and then there are some very fundamental questions. At any rate, it is new to me if those who we have a 'no' vote are dissatisfied with the fact that we are holding a referendum on the elements of European defence cooperation, in other words on the defence reserve. My impression was that it was actually satisfied that we were doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173548	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. And we move on to the rapporteur's line. Sir. Rasmus Horn Langhoff, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173601	Thank you for the floor. I'll be brief. Just as we in the Social Democratic Party were unable to support the previous proposal, B 146, we cannot support this resolution either. As you know, social democracy does not want to legalise cannabis. I have already examined the arguments during an earlier reading, mainly on the basis of the Danish Health Authority's note on the consequences of using cannabis, especially for some of the most vulnerable. I will not spend your time reviewing the arguments again. In relation to the vote, we in Denmark have clear rules and traditions as to when to put a vote to the Danes before we implement new legislation. And we have that here, if not for so long, when it comes to abolishing the defence reserve. But it is not and never has been part of our representative democracy to print indicative referendums on large and small, nor on this proposal, where there is no support in the Folketing. It is we here who have been elected as members of parliament, who must be responsible for the legislation in force in Denmark and who must stand up to the Danes and the electorate when there is a parliamentary election. So we are still left with no desire to legalise cannabis, nor do we have any desire to issue a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173728	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173730	Now the rapporteur himself referred to the speech made by the rapporteur during the last debate on cannabis. We just need to be sure that the rapporteur also knows what this proposal is and what cannabis is about. The rapporteur said during the last debate that there is the safe medical cannabis and the dangerous cannabis that you can buy on the street. What does the rapporteur mean by that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173755	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173756	It is a bit strange to have to use the next motion for a resolution to discuss the previous resolution. At least I haven't done that before. But there is a difference between using medical cannabis, which is the majority in the Folketing. The whole parliament, with the exception of the Conservative People's Party and the Radical Left, wants there to be the possibility of using medical cannabis, that is, without drugs, as a substitute and a good alternative to the cannabis that is on the market today. Perhaps we could keep the debate to what this is all about. It certainly makes it easier so that we do not have to jump back and forth between various other treatments we have had in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173854	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173856	We need to agree on what we are talking about. So, does the rapporteur think that medical cannabis is not euphoric? Because if the rapporteur thinks so, the rapporteur is talking about a resolution and cannabis in a way that is simply wrong. Does the rapporteur believe that medical cannabis is not euphoric?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173921	There is a great difference between medical cannabis in various species, and there is also a difference in what effect you can expect to have depending on whether you use cannabis oil, for example, or you go down and smoke a joint. So, yeah, there's a big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505173938	When I let this pass, of course, it is because it is very difficult to distinguish between one debate and the other debate when there is such a strong connection. Otherwise, however, the rapporteur is right to say that we usually stick to the debate that is going on. But since cannabis is part of both debates, I allowed it. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. This means that we move on to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174003	Thank you for the floor, President. The discussion of the motion for a resolution by the Alternative and the Free Greens is about whether we should have an indicative referendum on the legalisation of cannabis. In Denmark we have representative democracy. This has been the case for many years. In 1849 Denmark got its first constitution, and since then we have had strong democratic traditions, and we uphold those traditions in the Left. For the adoption of the Constitution marked the end of the absolute monarchy. The king gave power back to the people, and we were given the right to vote. At least every four years, we Danish citizens over the age of 18 can mark our position by taking part in a parliamentary election. There we are free, unhindered and secretly able to mark a cross right where you find it most right. Without comparison, our constitution is the most important of all laws. That is the law that all laws must respect. This also applies to us parliamentary politicians, who have, of course, signed that we will respect the Constitution of the Danish Empire. It may be tempting to issue referendums on this and that, and it may seem almost exotic to hear about, for example. Switzerland, where over a year there may be several referenda on precisely this and that. The last referendums in Switzerland, which I personally have been interested in, were the votes on whether the Swiss wanted it to be possible for homosexual couples to marry at the City Hall and the vote on the tightening of animal testing rules. As an example it can be said that just as far as the ceremonies were concerned, the turnout was only 52.6 per cent. When I mention this here, it is just to say that the difference between Swiss direct democracy and Danish representative democracy is marked. In the Left we uphold the traditions that we have in Danish parliamentarianism and the idea that, from the outset, we make our voice heard in a parliamentary election at least every four years. I fully agree that what the proposers here want is an indicative referendum at the same time as a parliamentary election, but that does not change the fact that we in the Left cannot support the proposal. After all, in the forthcoming parliamentary elections, each of us has the opportunity to mark our mark from the party with which we are most sympathetic, whether it is one of the parties that wants to legalise cannabis or not. After all, we politicians have just been elected to take that discussion. In return, we will shortly have a referendum on the lifting of the defence reserve, not because we are dealing with section 20 of the Constitution, but because all the parties in the Folketing agree on it. After all, it is no secret that we in the Left are hoping for both a high turnout and a great yes. Finally, let me make it clear that we in the Left share the wish of the authors of the motion for a resolution that fewer people should be made slaves of hashish or other drugs for that matter. We look with great seriousness and concern at drug abuse, which can, of course, have a number of negative social and human consequences: absenteeism from school and work, homelessness, crime etc. We have just begun negotiations on a new ten-year plan for psychiatry, which is where the Left wants us to have a national action plan against abuse, so that fewer people in the future will have to be drawn into the negative downward spiral of both hash abuse and other forms of abuse. I hope then that all parties in the Folketing will be able to support a national action plan against abuse. In conclusion, I would like to quote a short paragraph from the Council of Knowledge on Prevention, which in 2015 wrote a report. I quote: in other words, cannabis is in no way harmless, and because of the widespread use, we believe that both cannabis prevention, detection and prevention of the continuing problematic use of cannabis and treatment should be the focus of both health professionals and legislators. In particular, we believe that action is needed to prevent the use of cannabis in children and young people. ▪ Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174432	There are brief comments. It's only from Mr. Knox's office. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174435	After all, we could prevent the consumption of children and young people by getting it under control, setting an age limit and ensuring that it is not bikers who sell it to children and young people throughout the country. But with regard to referendums, what is wrong with asking the people? After all, it is a democratic tool that we have in the toolbox. We can take it out. It is an indicative referendum. What is wrong with bringing people closer to the decision-making process here in the Folketing? I imagined it was a liberal idea to let people decide as much about their lives as they possibly can. And if there are any ways in which we can create some cracks in these thick walls and let the people's voice come in, why not? Is it not really a liberal idea to allow people to have greater self-determination over their own lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174527	Yes, democracy is good, and every time one of us 179 puts us on the platform, we represent the people; then we represent those who have voted for us and for what we stand for. We then stand for something different, and that is what democracy is. And what is becoming liberal in a Danish democracy is that we respect differences and respect that we have different views.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174555	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174556	But what about personal freedom? I thought that being liberal was about personal freedom, and as soon as people are given the opportunity to take a direct stand on various subjects, are they not given more personal freedom?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174615-2	Now I am just looking for what I was just saying about voting every four years, and voting every four years is exactly the expression of personal freedom, because there you can put your voice on one man, one vote and secretly, freely and unobstructedly vote on exactly the party that best matches the opinions you have yourself regardless of whether you think cannabis should be legalised or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174644	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174645	Thank you. In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur said that it is a very low turnout in the referendums in Switzerland. However, the rapporteur forgets that it cannot be compared here with the referenda in Switzerland, which, as the rapporteur also said, are comparable to what we are voting on in the Parliamentary Assembly, and not with the major referendums on, for example. EU issues. When we vote in Denmark on issues on which they will vote in a referendum in Switzerland, it is 179 out of a total population of 5.8 million who can vote in 179 out of 5.8 million. I believe that the average in Switzerland is about 40% in turn. on subjects similar to those on which we are voting in the Parliamentary Chamber. Then it is a much more direct democracy and a much greater participation in the vote. It's just to end the number manipulation. We need to compare apples with apples and pears with pears. Having said that, there is something strange about the fact that you are in favour of free choice and something about freedom being given to citizens, but that you do not want to give them a free voice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174753	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174754	I think it is extremely important that we in Denmark should be able to vote freely and unhindered. That's what we do at least every four years. Anyone who has reached the age of 18 and is a Danish citizen may go down and speak his or her voice. Just as Mrs Pernille Vermund represents an electoral class, I, too, represent a group of voters on the platform, namely those who have said no to the legalisation of cannabis.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174820	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174821	Let us now assume that the unthinkable thing happened, that one thing was said before a choice and something else after a choice, for example. says that public consumption should not increase, that government power should be given, and that public consumption should suddenly increase. After all, the Danes have been deceived, and thus the voice that has been given to, for example, a party that could come up with this kind of thing is almost useless for the next four years. Does the rapporteur not at all recognise that, with a direct democracy, there will be a greater proximity between the decisions taken and the responsibilities imposed on the individual citizen, and therefore also the feeling that the individual citizen has an influence on his or her own life?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174856	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174857	I recognise that there is a relationship of trust between the electorate and us politicians, and the parties that choose to break the promise must, of course, be on the target for the next election.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174908	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then we go on to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505174927	Thank you for the floor. I have to admit that I have not written a new long speech to this debate, and I have not, because I really think I have explained very well in the previous debate the SF's position on what we want in drug policy. We have a national meeting decision on a state-authorized sale of cannabis, and we have a national meeting decision on the Portuguese model. So we are in the way of thinking that something has to be done in this area, and we have, of course, been aware of that, one might say. What makes us not in favour of this proposal is that there should be an indicative referendum on this issue of cannabis. It is, of course, an indicative referendum, so I do not see that it can do much more than an opinion poll. We know that we have the Danes with us. The problem is that the parties are not with us and that is why we cannot bring about the changes in the Folketing that we, in other words, Mr President. Torsten Gejl and I, etc., are really passionate about. However, we do not think that referendums should be held on anything and at any time and at all times in relation to various issues. We know that the citizens are with us on this issue. They have chosen us, but they did not think it was so important that they have voted for those parties that would like to implement something in this area, because then we would have had 90 seats and had, as it were, moved on already, and that is unfortunately not the case. So we say yes to the thinking that something must happen, but no to the indicative referendum. And then I'm gonna try to pre-empt that, sir. Torsten Gejl in a moment asks me whether we should not hear the people; is that not a good democratic principle? Indeed, we have done so in the elections themselves, and the electorate has not really voted for the parties that are progressive in this area, so if that question was really important to them, I think we already had a majority. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175142	First, it's sir. Torsten Gejl to a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175146	Thank you for your speech and I am glad that the rapporteur does not repeat all his speech from the last debate, because I know what SF thinks about cannabis. But these are not referendums on anything, but it is a referendum on something that is probably about a turnover of 5 billion. kr., tens of thousands of people who are addicted and who have a problem, hundreds of thousands of people who use this both recreationally and medically. So it's not just anything. But does the rapporteur not think that, if we had a referendum, and if there were a clear majority, we do not know that and with that in our backs we would start to pull ourselves together to create a common model, and the government would also understand that it had now been brought so far into people's minds that there was such a great hope that something would happen now, could actually comply with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175243	In fact, I do not feel entirely convinced of that. So, I think that some of the parties who are opposed to finding models and solutions in this area can read the same opinion polls as Mr. Torsten Gejl and I can and, as the Danes say, if we want to take this step, we have the support of the people. That is why I am not sure that an indicative referendum would change so much. But who knows? No one can really tell.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175312	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175314	No, and that's why I was hoping SF would give it a chance. Because we're not gonna settle this if we don't give it a chance. In other words, it is not because the people have the greatest faith in us politicians. After all, we are very, very bad in all the confidence polls. There was a time when there were many members of political parties, today I think it is 4%. Is it not time to give the Danes new democratic opportunities now when they consider us in here to be less credible than journalists, real estate agents and second-hand car dealers?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175347	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175348	I do not know whether it will be more credible for us to have an indicative referendum, which will show the same thing as the polls, namely that the people want changes in here, and then a political majority will reject the proposal. I don't think that gives credibility. I think that we already have challenges with the citizens' proposals, where there are not many going through, but I still think it is a good tool that some citizens can come together and like to raise a debate in the Folketing and at least get the debate and the positions of the parties in relation to it. But it is not always the case that this leads to concrete policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175424	Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175426	But if we then assumed that the referenda were not indicative, but that they actually meant that in here we had to comply with them, was that another matter? We have an area with which we are almost constantly harassing after several parties have stepped out of the conciliation circle around the Public Service Act, and it is, of course, that there are some parties which are governing parties and which have no interest in making the Public Service Act more open to the public. We parties that do not sit in the government have an interest in making it more open. I think that if you ask the Danes out there whether the Danes and the media can gain greater insight into what the government is doing at any time, then there will be a huge majority to say yes. This is also just an area in which I have to say that it will probably never be changed, because there will probably always be a majority across the middle, which are parties that either have power at one time or at the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175529	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175530	I believe that it must be taken into account and that we must then vote for the parties with which we agree and which we believe can make that change. That is what you have the opportunity to do in every parliamentary election. I do not want a society in which we have to go to a referendum every two minutes to take a position on various issues. I welcome the fact that people seem to want changes that the parties do not want. But then I think that we must take the consequences of this and vote for those who want to implement the specific policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175604	Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175606	In fact, I think that is what the Danes are doing, and that creates a different situation. I think that one of the things that keeps making new parties appear is that these slightly smaller cases are going to fill a lot for a single party and that they may then drown a little in the politics of the major parties. Because it has been the case up to now that it may have been said that all right, you accept that the legislation in this area is such, there is an economy, there are some other agendas that are more important, and then you use them as pointers. But we now have a great many parties, including our own, which are new parties, perhaps for the same reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175639	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175641	Yes, I cannot rule out the fact that there are some who actually take stock of it and that it then gives a division into several parties. But it is also a form of democracy, one might say. My view is that we should not go to a referendum in time and early on big and small issues. My view is that we have a good and strong democratic system and that when you go to the parliamentary elections, you have to take stock of what is important and also most important for you and then you have to vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175713	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175715	Thank you. For some people, this is a big case, actually for a lot of people. But it is also a specific matter, and we can see that, in relation to how the mood divides completely across the right-wing and left-wing parties. So I think that this could be a reason for holding a referendum on it, because you have an opinion on it in general, in relation to whether you are in one place or another. There is cannabis a little special, and it does not cover the attitude of the whole party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175752	So, my position is that we should reserve referenda on very large and important issues. I understand that this also means a great deal to many, but I do not think it falls into the category where I would recommend a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175809	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. This means that we move on to Mr. Stinus Lindgreen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505175817	Thank you, President. Yes, the whole debate on cannabis and the pros and cons of legalisation has been going on for a long time in this Chamber. It also shows that it is a complex matter in which for and against must be weighed against each other. As you know, we in the Radical Left believe that a trial period can give us good experience of how a controlled legalised sale can take place. It must then be followed up with focused help for rehab and social efforts. As elected representatives, we must dare to measure up to our decisions, our positions, whether you mean one or the other. That is our responsibility as politicians. For example, if we were to get a majority in favour of our proposal for a temporary trial period for the legalisation of cannabis, I should like to take responsibility for both the good and the bad things that might result from it. In the same way, of course, I expect those parties that are against it to face the consequences of their policy. That is the whole point of our representative democracy. We assume responsibility for managing our mandates, we weigh for and against each case, we receive reports and notes, we use our access to ministries and experts, and we take into account the legal aspects. And so these are not opportunities available to all citizens in this country. In the Radical Left, we cannot support the proposal for a referendum on a subject which is obviously a matter for Christiansborg and which must be worked out in a general parliamentary manner. Referendums should, as both the Minister and several other rapporteurs have already said, be reserved for other types of issues, such as the referendum to abolish the defence reserve, which we will have here on 1 June, and to which I hope, in return, that you will all vote in favour. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180010	Thank you to the rapporteur. That came at the last minute a brief remark from Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180016	It may also be that you have to make a referendum on something you disagree with, or something you do not have an opinion on. Looking at the developments that have taken place with regard to Parliament, I wonder a little why it is that we are not trying to develop democracy a little product, try to let some light in and then experiment with some more direct ways to give people influence now when confidence in us politicians and membership of the parties, etc. etc. It is almost in free fall.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180101	So do we. There have recently been two proposals, as I recall, in this Chamber, among others. by my own party chairman and, at least, by the Free Greens and, I believe, by other parties, just looking at new ways of creating democracy, new ways of making citizen involvement. A few years ago, it was decided to have citizens' proposals. This is also a new way of making democratic involvement. So things happen. Because I fully agree that the way we feel today there are plenty of good things to say about, but that does not mean that we cannot do better. It just doesn't mean that a referendum is the right answer, and I think that referendums should be about other major issues than anything like this. And the argument that it concerns a lot of people, you could use about pretty much everything we do in here. Every time we pass a law, it affects every citizen in the country. This does not mean that we should have referendums on every legislative proposal we deal with in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180149	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180151	After all, it is quite a big issue with a very, very large billions of revenue and a huge impact on people's welfare and many abusers, etc. So this isn't a tiny thing we found under some rock. But now one of the arguments put forward by the rapporteur that we should not have a referendum, that the citizens may not have the same level of information as we have, but in a matter as important as an EU vote, we would like to give them that level of information. Why can't we do this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180224	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180225	The Minister also said that he could choose to make a referendum on it. I just think it's the wrong way to go. After all, there are plenty of issues that cost more than this, which concerns more people than this one, which we do not go to a referendum. Throughout the corona epidemic, I do not know how many legislative proposals we have debated up here, which concern us all and which have high costs. This does not mean that a referendum is the right way to do it, because we must be able to clarify all the technical questions, be able to get answers to all the legal issues, get answers to all the resulting consequences of it. It's a privilege we have in here; you don't have that in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180259	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Rosa Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180311	Thank you. I think we can see from the debate we had just now, but also from the policy that Enhedslisten has always had, that we support a proposal for the legalisation of cannabis. It was also an important theme for the Enhedslisten in the municipal election campaign in Copenhagen in November, as well as an important theme for Enhedslisten both on the health policy issue and on the legal policy issue. I am also thinking that the intention behind this proposal is that cannabis should be legalised, so on that front I fully agree with the proposers. When it comes to the question of whether to issue an indicative referendum on whether cannabis should be legalised, it is a little difficult to see, I think, what purpose it should serve. We know from the National Health Service's own figures that over 40%. of the Danes have tried to smoke cannabis, that 20%. has done so in the last year and barely 8%. within the last month. It is therefore a large proportion of the Danes who must be assumed to support legalisation. In addition, we know from a poll conducted for the Altinget of Jyllands-Posten that as much as 65%. It is true that the people want cannabis to be legalized, so there is no real doubt that the government and the Left are actively pursuing a policy in this area with which we must assume that their voters do not agree. We see this in many areas, among others. in the area of foreigners, where the Social Democratic Party is pursuing a very tough and strict policy, which has also been measured against the fact that the majority of the government's electorate do not agree. It is a little difficult for me to see what an indicative referendum should do good for. Unfortunately, we are aware of the result of the fact that it should only be indicative, namely that the current government and the Left would stick to exactly the policy they have in this area. That is why I think that when we make referendums, they should be binding. However, I would also like to say that what is at the top of Enhedslisten's wish list to change referendums is not necessarily the question of cannabis, but other issues such as, for example, what kind of constitutional changes we have to make and whether we should not make a constitutional change that would make it easier to obtain citizenship in Denmark, so that when you are born here, you also have the right to vote here. I think that would be appropriate for a referendum. Having said that, I also find it difficult to oppose referendums because it is an extension of democracy, and I think that is only desirable. So several referendums in the Enhedslisten are a good thing and a good idea, and we may see for ourselves that the referendum that the proposers want here and pool it with referendums on other things is being held. I know, for example, that Mrs Pernille Vermund and New Citizens want many referenda in the field of foreigners, and that is what we do in the Enhedslisten. So if you could do that, if you could pool this proposal with other referendums or at least make it binding, Enhedslisten would support the proposal. I guess I'm gonna have to stand somewhere in between. I do not know whether we can agree on a report text, but if the authors end up sending it to the vote, we will of course have to agree with ourselves in the Enhedslisten on what button to press. However, I would like to say two things quite clearly: we fully support the intention to legalise cannabis and we fully support the intention that we should have more referendums. And then just to follow up on what the radical rapporteur said, I would like to say that we hope in the Enhedslisten that the majority of Danes will vote no on 1 June.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180701	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we move on to Mrs Britt Baker, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180714	Thank you. I will probably not surprise many people in the Chamber about this proposal either. The Conservative People's Party cannot support a referendum on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180730	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we're on to Mr. Knox's. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180744	I agree with the rapporteur of the Conservatives and also with others who have said that this is not suitable for a referendum, because in the goose-eyes of the matter this is simply not enough. Well, we've had referendums about the European Union and our surrender of sovereignty for many years as something natural, and then we've had it about the land laws in 1963, I think it was, and then we've had it about the sale of the Danish West Indies in 1916. And then I don't think there's anyone else. And to raise a question of legalising cannabis to become a referendum I simply cannot accept. So our decision is to say no to the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180831	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180833	But how big should the proposals be? This is a proposal for 5 billion. kr. It is, after all, almost the free amount that we are negotiating in a financial law. There are hundreds of thousands of people who use the drug. Unfortunately, there are tens of thousands of people who depend on it. So how big must the proposals be before the rapporteur considers it reasonable to hold a referendum on this? And does the rapporteur think that we have enough referendums, or could it sometimes be an idea to ask citizens as guidance, as this is, in relation to their opinion on a specific matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180917	I have actually mentioned the two referenda that I remember. In addition, there are those votes on the European Union which have to do with the surrender of sovereignty. It's got to get to that level. I cannot point to anything, but I would just like to say that, in relation to the legalisation of cannabis, this is not something that we, according to Danish tradition, want to make a referendum on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180944	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505180949	Thank you. In New Citizens we always really want to ask the Danes. The closer the decisions come to the people to whom the decisions relate, the easier it is to link up with the responsibility of decisions taken and also to feel the consequences of decisions taken. And so it is easier to convert the decisions than to wait four years for a party that might be voted on to get it adopted here in a Parliament hall where that party may even run from its electoral vows once they come in here. So yes, thank you to several referendums... also like referendums on issues where we do not agree, in other words where we think the legislation is fine as it is. We therefore agree that it is good to ask the Danes about EU issues, also about EU issues, where there is a majority in the Folketing that wants one answer and where we want another answer. We are confident that the Danes can make decisions on both large and small. And it is just now that I want to say that the less decisions you have to make, the more important these decisions are for the individual, the easier it is to make decisions and also to reverse them if you have a new referendum. It is not very many days since last week we had asked lessons here in Parliament, and there I stood before the Prime Minister, who said rather boldly, and I think she subsequently regretted that she actually wanted to take up the challenge of asking the Danes whether the Danes would like to have a windmill or a nuclear power plant in their backyard. The Prime Minister perhaps forgot to say that it should, I do not know how many wind turbines to produce the same amount of energy as a nuclear power plant, so it is perhaps a nuclear power plant in a fraction of the backyards in which wind turbines are required, but that is what it is. I have since tried to get the Prime Minister to come to the Chamber and answer whether the Prime Minister thinks we should have a referendum. The Prime Minister will not answer that question, which is why I assume it was a statement. But I had a short hope that we actually had a Prime Minister who was concerned about what the Danes think in an area which is quite important and quite relevant at the moment and which is of great importance to society in the future. We probably didn't. When we support the proposal here, it is not because we support free hashish, a legalisation of hashish, but we support asking the Danes. And then we have to see how such a question can be formulated, and then the Danes have to take a position. Then you can ask a new question, and then you can ask again. We would also like referendums to be binding, but even with an indicative referendum I actually believe that politicians in this Parliament would have a little more respect if they knew that 70%, 80%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the people were opposed to what was voted by a majority in this House. Let us now give power back to the Danes; let us make sure that politicians decide less and Danes much more themselves and also gladly over more of their own money. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505181255	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And we move on to Mrs Susanne Zimmer, Free Green.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505181305	At the last treatment I told you about the good reasons there are to legalize cannabis. And that is why I think it is very good to let the people decide what you think, especially in relation to the value of life that it gives to many people, and in relation to the ability to combat crime and decriminalise some of the users. I think, moreover, that democracy is something that we must safeguard, and that is why it is very good to give the people the opportunity to take a position on such a point which is of great importance to a great many people. It must, of course, be accompanied by an information campaign so that people know what they are dealing with, and I think that in itself it is a mission. This will make it more interesting to keep up with what it means and to find out the drawbacks of using cannabis too, so that you have a more conscious use, and perhaps it can also help to reduce the consumption of those who use too much cannabis. So, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505181417	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it's Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505181434	Thank you. Yes, we have had the cannabis debate on the previous proposal. This is about when to have a referendum. We will soon have a referendum on our defence reserve, and there, of course, I believe that everyone should vote 'no'. We must not give up sovereignty. I would like to say that I have just taken it up because another rapporteur was standing there saying the opposite, otherwise I do not think we should mix these things up. It is, of course, true that if we give up sovereignty or somehow give up some of our democracy in Denmark, then we have to vote on it, but I do not think that when it comes to legalising cannabis, that is something we need a referendum on. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505181516	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we came to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505181527	Thank you, President. I would like to start by thanking the New Civil and Free Greens and, indeed, partly the Enhedslisten for their support, partly for not putting this proposal down the board. When it comes to the alternative's attitude to cannabis, I think everyone knows that we are positive about cannabis. We would like this hopeless ban to be replaced by legalisation, get it under control, but that's not what this proposal is about. This proposal is about whether to let people decide whether to issue a referendum. In fact, we are also in favour of more referendums, and we do not think that this conflicts with representative democracy. Leonard Cohen once said there's a crack in everything, and that's where the light comes in. I really wish that we would let the light in more through the thick walls of Christiansborg and let people take part in the decisions, when it is something that we think we can give people the middle bills, qualify people to decide on for good reason. We also did so in the citizens' proposals, which were, of course, the idea of the alternative, in which, thankfully, we succeeded, and thanks to those parties that supported it, to get it allowed to do so, and now there are a lot of citizens making citizens' proposals, hundreds of them even being adopted. It is a little hasty, it is not easy to allow the Danes to play a greater part in democracy, but I think we should develop democracy in the product sector. If it had been the case that we had been really, really high in the confidence polls, us politicians, and I felt that people had very much confidence in us, it might have been something else, but in the last investigations I saw about the credibility of politicians, we are therefore at a very low level. We are in a particularly lonely category right down the bottom under used car dealers and real estate agents and journalists. There is virtually no support for the parties anymore, I think it is 4% that is a member of a party. In that light, I would not say that this is the only answer, to defend the development of democracy and to think whether, as citizens are so dissatisfied with us, we could demand a higher involvement of them and give their voice a stronger position in here. I am actually glad that there are several parties supporting this. This was, of course, to be done with a major information campaign, and this is not only true for cannabis. The reason we've brought it out here with cannabis is because it's stopped. We talk and talk and talk, and the public would actually like us to find a legalisation model, but in here it has simply stalled and, as we could see from the debate on the last proposal on the legalisation of cannabis, that is to say, an experimental scheme, there are not even very well-documented arguments against it, because these are sights. There we thought, let the people say what they think, they can find out, and then let us take the further discussion on that basis. But it wasn't supposed to be that way. I hope that we will find other ways just as quietly of letting the people vote a little more clearly through these thick walls, but I would certainly like to thank you for a good debate, not about cannabis, but about expanding our democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505181907	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Health Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505181921	I'll start by ascertaining if we have Mr. Knox. Preben Bang Henriksen is present, otherwise we will not be able to start the debate. It is, of course, the case that the proposers should be present. The minister's here. Then the troops are in place after a slight interruption and we can begin the debate on motion for a resolution. B 158. The debate is open, and first it is the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505182025	Thank you. That's what Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen the opportunity to get both the weather and the jacket on, and so it must be among colleagues here in the house. Thank you for the suggestion here. We shall consider a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen and Mr. Morten Dahlin, which deals with a new model for the provision of state legal services. The background to the proposal, as I have understood it, is a desire to repeal the current Chamber Attorney's Agreement, and I think it is good that we will have the opportunity to discuss that agenda, as the procurement of legal services and other consultancy services by the State is an important matter. Let me therefore also begin by stressing that the government shares the intention in the motion for a resolution that the state's legal work should be carried out with the best possible quality at the best possible price. These may then be different ways to do it, but we agree with the intention. After all, as Minister of Finance, it is one of my distinguished tasks to manage the state's finances responsibly, and this also applies, by its very nature, to the purchase by the State of legal services. That is why I would like to take this opportunity today to say that I would rather spend the state's money on welfare and green conversion than on external consultants. It is an important priority for the government; it applies in general, and it also applies to legal services. Having said that, it is also clear that, as a state, we have a need to have legal advice to help us in any cases that the state may bring, or the cases that citizens or companies may bring against the state. The Government's objective is to reduce the consumption of external consultants in the public sector by 3 billion. kr. We are very well on the way, and that is a road we want to continue along. As far as the system of lawyers is concerned, later this year, and in connection with the fact that we also have to negotiate financial law, the government will present its proposal on what would be the best solution, and that will be the starting point, as I mentioned earlier, for us to have the best product at the best price. We have an open mind about the path to be taken to achieve that goal, and we will therefore, as I have said, come up with our proposals in relation to the fact that we also have to negotiate financial law. Or, to put it another way, we need to spend less money than what we spend today on the services we receive. We must have it at a better price, whether we choose one or the other or the third way to achieve it. I would also like to take this opportunity to put a few words on the existing agreement with the Attorney General. It is my impression that there is general satisfaction with the state's legal system. The state institutions have easy access to high-quality legal advice, which includes: As a result of the fact that the Attorney General has a supply obligation. And it is perhaps also worth mentioning that the current Chamber Attorney's Agreement has been concluded on the basis of previous report on the provision of state legal services from 2013 submitted by the Left and others. As I said, it is a good thing that we have the opportunity today to discuss the DA's system. What will be our guiding principle is that the state's legal tasks are solved with high quality and at the right price, and we have an open mind and keep the doors open in relation to it, and that can be done in several ways. This can of course be done by the fact that the agreement we have with the Attorney General for the moment is more advantageous from the point of view of the government. It may also be that some of the tasks offered today are taken home so that it is done by the State itself, and it may also be that more tasks are offered in the legal field than are currently the case. It is worth saying, however, that when the state has to solve its tasks, it is not the Attorney-General alone who is responsible for it. A large number of the legal tasks carried out for the State are carried out by companies other than the Attorney General. So this is a case in which there are many considerations that need to be taken into account. We need to have very high-quality legal advice, which is secure for the state, so that we can be sure that we can get the right advice when we need what also has the capacity considerations inside it, so that we do not run the risk of facing a situation where there are law firms that have difficulties in representing the state in relation to citizens and others, and all that will be part of the government's deliberations. As I have said, we will come up with our proposals later this year, which means that the government will not be able to support today's resolution because it will decide in advance what kind of model it should be, but I hope that, as I know, the Left will be constructive in the discussions we will take with the parties of the Folketing when we reach the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505182626	Thank you. I see no desire for short remarks. That is why we thank the Minister for Finance and start with the rapporteur's line. First, it's sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505182643	Thank you, President, and thank you for the floor. The proposal we are discussing here has been put forward by the Left, and it will require the government in this Assembly to ensure that essential parts of the state's legal profession are distributed among several law firms by means of invitations to tender or by other means by creating a completely new model for the provision of state legal services. We fully agree with the proposer that the state's legal work must be carried out at the lowest possible price, without, of course, compromising quality. However, in fact, the prices of the DA are competitive with other law firms, and it is therefore considered that the large savings will not be achieved. At the same time, there are more advantages to the present system than there is to an increase in competition, and therefore the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal in its present form. The state is already using lawyers other than the DA. Of these, the majority are smaller law firms. Competition of e.g. trade unions or sub-contracts are likely to benefit large law firms and thus put smaller firms at a disadvantage. In addition, the proposal makes it more difficult for citizens and companies wishing to sue the state to find a representation. Because if many of the big law firms also take cases for the state, there will be conflicts of interest. Finally, we note with satisfaction that the government has launched a number of initiatives to support an increased internal task solution in the state, thereby reducing the use of external consultants. We look forward to the further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505182822	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505182824	I understand that this is a system that really offers competitive prices. No? Okay, that'll have to be corrected. Because I would like to know whether it is in the social democracy's thinking that other areas need to be monopolised in order to have a truly cheap and sensible system. You can also use the same carpenter's firm and the same architect's firm and, in general, scrap the procurement legislation. It must, of course, produce tremendously good results if it is such a good idea to have a monopoly. I've never seen a monopoly being something I give cheap prices. Let me just hear the rapporteur's comments. Wasn't it said this was competitive prices, or what was it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505182909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505182910	It is, of course, the case that the prices of the Chamber Attorney's Office are continuously benchmarking against other law firms, and of the figures that have been submitted to me, it can be seen that there is an average. Hourly prices were in the benchmark on average 11%. Over the DA's hourly rates. It must be said that this is a considerable sum which can then be saved there. I would also like to say to the premise that there should be a monopoly on this market that I do not agree with either. Because it is already the case that in the last amendment of the law on the Chamber Attorney's Office it was made possible that the State could also go out in individual cases and buy work from other law firms so that they can provide services for the state. So I do not think this is a monopoly.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505182951	Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505182953	Now I have to say that we are now referring to how cheap it is in terms of hourly prices. I do not know whether the rapporteur, if he had to order a repair of the house, is most interested in the hourly price or whether he is most interested in what the total bill will cost. In other words, it could be that the Attorney General used much more resources, much more people, perhaps at a price of 5%. in the others, but the result is that it will be considerably more expensive. That's what we're seeing today. If you ask your own house attorney, he's gonna be laughing when he hears that the DA's cheap.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505183028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505183029	Besides taking into account the price, there are other things to consider. In his speech, the Minister for Finance mentioned that problems of viability could arise if it were the case that action was taken in different places. In addition, there is also the fact that if you have to go shopping in many different places, there are some transaction costs in making the offer. There has to be some contract management. Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen is actually indirectly talking about it, namely that with how long it takes to solve a task. And in such a regime there will also be extra costs for the state. So, all in all, it will be costy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505183105	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. And that means that we move on to SF's rapporteur, Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505183128	I have stepped in for a colleague who suddenly had a sick child, so I read straight from a speech here; I brought my phone with me, because I couldn't print it. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution from the Left, which we in the SF actually think is very important. For a number of years we have been trying to change the fact that we have a private monopoly on the state's use of legal services. We do not think that should be the case, so far along the way we agree with the Left. Where we disagree, we can read from the motion for a resolution as to whether legal tasks and competences should be taken back to the ministries and the state. We believe that what is crucial is that there is the right knowledge and that everything is not outsourced. We want to build legal competences so that ministries, boards and others can do most of their own, and that niche tasks can be sent in tenders. It's a pretty big difference between what we in the SF want and what the Left wants. However, we would very much like to make a report in committee so that we can speed up the process, because we believe that the Ministry of Finance is too slow, also in relation to the fact that it is a financial law agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505183238	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then we move on to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505183253	Thank you very much, President. And thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen and the Left to make this proposal. In the Radical Left, we agree with the proposers that the state's legal tasks must be carried out in the best possible way and with the highest possible quality, and it is of course also the case that the price is quite central. Some tasks are solved today inhouse, and possibly even more tasks could be taken home. And, as I said, we should also be critical of the price. I heard the speech by the Minister for Finance suggesting that the issue of the model is open at some point in the autumn. We in the Radical Left will be delighted to enter into those discussions and until then it might be that we could land a report text. We in the Radical Left are very open to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505183348	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505183356	Thank you. From the point of view of the Enhedslisten, we are in favour of the resolution, in the sense that we think it is important when we spend Community money, that we spend it in the most efficient way possible and that we get as much quality as possible for the money. However, we believe in the proposal that there is insufficient focus on the fact that more tasks can also be carried out inhouse, by the state itself, both in order to improve quality, but also in order to get it at the right price. So we are thinking that it must be possible to find a report text in connection with the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505183431	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then we move on to Mrs Britt Baker, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505183444	Thank you. I would also like to thank Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen to make this proposal. I know that this is a proposal that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen has dealt closely with and is close to his heart. The Danish State has for a number of years had an agreement with the law firm Poul Schmith, also referred to as the Attorney General, on the provision of legal services. The agreement is regularly subject to considerable attention, and back in 2013-2014 the Folketing issued a report calling for the work to be put out to tender. As I understand it, there were no lawyers other than the lawyer's house Poul Schmith who offered that assignment, and this is probably due to the fact that we in Denmark have a tradition that we have only one law firm with a privileged position. If you make an agreement with the state to be the state's primary lawyer, that agreement contains an extended requirement in relation to conflicts of interest so that the state can be sure that there is no inability when seeking advice. This means that you invite in as a lawyer, you will also be prevented from taking other cases for other large customers. Then you're the state's primary attorney, you have to turn down other customers. When we have the model with one law firm in Denmark, this is because all parties, with the exception of Enhedslisten in 2015, considered that there were a number of advantages associated with the fact that, as a rule, the main tasks of one law firm should be brought together rather than making use of several different law offices. There are considerable economies of scale associated with this. There is the possibility of obtaining professional synergies that are possible to advise across legal disciplines in the major projects, and there is, in particular, concentrated knowledge building and anchoring. I believe that many of these benefits will cease if more lawyers are chosen. Having said that, we, as Parliament, must constantly focus on putting out competition in the form of tenders. Like Parliament, we must always ensure that the state spends the Danes' money in the best possible way, and that is why prior to the conclusion of the agreement it was ensured that the hourly prices in the agreement were competitive. This was done by making a price check against market prices. This is also why it is free for the State to take back tasks and to solve them themselves, as does the State's regular use of other law offices. Among other things: Last year the state spent 77 million. kr. to the services of other lawyers' houses. So the state has no obligation to take away a certain amount of services from the Attorney General. And as recently as 2020, the Danish Economic and Financial Authority produced a report from the Boston Consulting Group, which showed that the prices of the DA are 11.2 per cent. lower than market prices. And then there is the very current, namely that the Reichsaudit is working on a report that looks into consultant savings. In the Conservative People's Party we pay tribute to competition exposure and we keep a close eye on the state getting the best independent legal advice at the best price. We would like to help look at models other than the current one, especially if the Reichsaudit report shows that taxpayers' money is better spent by changing the current model. But at present we are awaiting the thorough work that has been started in the Reichsaudit and then we will then decide whether it should form the basis for revising the current system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505183848	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505183851	It's just a factual error, but now I think it was more of a tale. In other words, it was not the case that after the last debate here in the Folketing and after the report it was then put out for tender and that only one bid was made. The agreement with the Attorney General continued, and some changes were made to it, which is quite right, but there has been no call for tenders. I hear from the Conservative People's Party that we are celebrating competition bans, but at the same time we do not really think that competition should be postponed. That's how I hear it, and I can't really understand it. If you pay tribute to competition and think this is a good idea, could the rapporteur come to other areas within the state where it is a really good idea and much, much cheaper to scrap the procurement rules so that we could get rid of all the procurement stuff? It's a great advantage to have one supplier, I hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505183943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505183943-2	But as I understand, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, there was only one law firm that wanted to offer this assignment. And this is probably linked to the fact that you have to disown other customers. Of course, there will be other large law offices that will be able to carry out this task that Poul Schmith is now doing. I am not at all in doubt about that, but if you have to comply with the rules on inability, you have to dissuade other customers from saying no to other major tasks. We would very much like to be involved in looking at whether it should be put out to competition, because that is what we are trying to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505184030	Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505184031	Now we are not going to squander it any more, but it has not been in the tender. That's what we want it to be, but it didn't happen to Corydon. And then the rapporteur says that there was only one person who asked that was not the case but that we should also say no to other tasks. No, you don't. Well, the current office has lots of other tasks, but the state is a very, very large customer in the office. So you can easily have other tasks. But the rapporteur is right to say no to actions against the state. You can't wear both hats.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505184105	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505184105-2	Yes, and that also means saying no to other tasks. For there will of course be a overlap of customers who have cases against the state or major contracts with the state, which then cannot be handled by the DA. So there will be special inability rules that will make you say no to customers if you are going to be the state's primary lawyer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505184130	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505184139	Thank you. After all, we are discussing today the proposal from the Left that the work of the Attorney General should be distributed to several law firms. We fully understand the intention of the proposal; it is actually quite interesting. The main immediate challenge is that we can be absolutely sure that the overall quality of the work now being done by the DA will not be at the same level as at present. We believe that if we are to change the work of the Chamber Attorney, it must be done on the basis of something that does not work or something that we believe could be done better. With us in the Danish People's Party we see it as crucial that the state's lawyer can match the often very expensive and talented lawyers who represent the other party, for example. large multinational companies. Here it is important that the state in cases, for example. whether tax on dividends and the like can take the best possible care of the state and thus of taxpayers' money. But we can easily see that there will be cases where another law firm wants expertise and may even make it faster, cheaper and better, and we must of course take that into account. We are tempted by the proposal, I would say, and we look forward to the discussion, which may at best end up in a report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505184252	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Vermund, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505184304	Thank you. In New Citizens, we believe that competition is good forever. It is always the case that when you are in competition with others, you get up and when you get up, you deliver more for the price or for the effort that needs to be made. When we talk about the public sector, competition is particularly good because it is other people's money that we manage when, for example, we spend a great deal of money on legal work. That is why we in New Citizens are also very open to competition in this area. Then there is something in terms of quality, inability, etc. etc. Listen to this: we solve this in so many other areas; in so many other quite vital areas we manage to solve it, so surely it could be done here. I do have one small but in this, and that is that it surprises me, and it may be, because I do not know the story in it well enough, that this has been something that has been discussed since 2012-2013, and that in the intervening period there has been a blue majority. There has also been a purely Left Government, a Left Government with a Minister of Justice, not named Søren Pape Poulsen, but Søren Pind, and who was therefore also Leftman, so I'm a little surprised that you haven't tackled this before. This should not be put to the disadvantage of the authors of the motion, because I still think it is a good proposal, but somewhere there is something bizarre about parties putting forward proposals when they are in opposition, which they could in principle have implemented when they had the majority, and so I would like to hear who stood in the way of this. I can get a little sense of who it might be when I hear the debate today, but I would really like to know and learn more about what kind of bourgeois parties are against competition in this area and who think it is reasonable that the Danes potentially spend more money than they need on lawyers' bills.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505184510	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505184513	But I might as well lay down flat, because that is quite right what the rapporteur says: part of the period here, which the last ten years have touched upon, has also been in power. How'd it go there? It has gone the wrong way; it is quite right. Some honest attempts have been made, I would say. My colleague Sophie Løhde introduced a follow-up or explanation clause, i.e.: that either one had to offer it or one had to explain why one did not offer it, and the latter there could be good reasons for it. I understand the current government has given up, so now you just have to send it to West Farimagsgade or where it has now moved. Having said that, I would say, and that is probably more for what has been said, that there are also other lawyers who may be talking about, that yes, but in my opinion they are about 5-10 per cent. I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is an important step in the right direction. But that was more of a comment to the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505184611	Mrs. Pernille Vermund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505184612	Thank you. I am not quite sure what it was for, because I do not think it was something I said. But it is true that this is a de facto monopoly and therefore potentially an area in which the Danes, because it is not competitive, spend more money than is very necessary. I mean, somewhere it's strange... now I heard SF be positive about this... if you on the left are against putting something out of competition where we spend so much money on some people, who already usually are some of those who have the most left to themselves. So it is taxpayers' money; it is also the cashier's money, it is also the cleaning assistant's money, etc. etc. So I hope that we will then be able to come up with a report in which a great deal, including the red parties, can be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505184702	There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. No, it's not Mrs. Susanne Zimmer. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505184741	Thank you. The proposal, tabled by the Left, refers to the so-called chamber lawyer system, a system that has existed here in Denmark since 1936. In any case, we can already say that it must be very nice to have a contract with the State that lasts 86 years and, as far as I can hear for 100 years, if we are to follow the majority. I also believe that most people can agree with me that this is probably not the best way to regulate competition in the legal market. Nevertheless, it has been the scheme since 1936. It is peculiar, and it is also peculiar that we are the only country in the world I repeat, the only country in the world that has such an arrangement. I have heard a lot about how terrible it is to outsource the work to other lawyers, but it can still be done in all other countries around the world, so it is probably not impossible either. It is true that an almost identical proposal was discussed 10 years ago. It ended with a report, and that report included, among other things: the following text: to allow the use of lawyers other than the Chamber Attorney's Office, where the cross-cutting professional synergies which form the basis of an overall system of attorneys' attorneys' offices do not apply with particular weight. A new agreement must therefore support the possibility for the State to use other lawyers in such areas. It is therefore, if there are cross-cutting synergies effects, and this means that this is the court's assessment of, for example, a tax credit, which runs a case in Hjørring, Sønderborg and Copenhagen, it is very natural to use the same lawyer, but where this is not the case, the agreement must support the use of other lawyers. We just have to say that it didn't work out that way. Mrs Pernille Vermund has already mentioned the subject. The fact is that today the scheme has reached 608 million. kr. The 608 million. kr. are the direct fees paid to the State, to which are the State's companies, which also rely to a large extent on the Attorney General. In addition to that, there is another advantage to being a lawyer in the state, namely that all firms going bankrupt or going under construction need to use a lawyer as a curator or reconstructor, and we are talking about great sa teacher, and in the large cases we are pointing out to the Chamber Attorney. In other words, being the state's preferred lawyer also implies a side benefit, which might have to be reflected in slightly lower prices. In my view, it does not. When we discuss prices, and I did so with the Social Democrat rapporteur, I have to say that it takes people who have tried to calculate prices in the legal world to carry out an accurate review of this. Because it is not a question of whether you have an hourly price that is 500 kroner. under another lawyer's hourly price. It's a question of what the bottom line is on the bill. And the citizens who have been in clinch with the DA will often have experienced that. You may have a free trial lawyer, and he cannot bring four other colleagues from the office, and then he sits in front of the DA's office, which is represented not by one, but by several lawyers. Then it may be that they have an hourly price that is 5%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say a word of thanks to the President-in-Office of the Council and to the President-in-Office of the Council. This has been documented in several cases. So the fact that you can just make it up on the basis of the hourly price, I'm not buying. The fact is, this is a monopoly. It is absolutely true that 10%. of the ordinary wage income may have been laid out today, but the 90 per cent. At least it's not. There is then an extra little curl on this, and that is that the government had the Competition Council draw up a very comprehensive report which was published here one year ago. It was a report on the legal profession that was supposed to tell how it was cheaper to go to a lawyer, and the main element of that report was, in fact, the DA's scheme, on which it was said that in this area it is not at all a contemporary one. What did the government do? You got the 15-16 points in the report and then you said: we are implementing a few of them. In the field of justice, the Ministry of Justice carried out inter alia: the point that lawyers were required to provide hourly prices. And I can only repeat what I have said before, namely that I do not really care about the price of the hour, but that I do not care what it will cost. The fact was that the small changes made by the government have absolutely no impact on competition in the legal profession, whereas the report, which is 327 pages, points precisely to the DA's system as a limiting factor for competition. And I just have to say that when you see and receive such extensive work, I am surprised that nothing is going to happen at all. It is as if the people who produced the report, the Competition Council, have completely misunderstood what they were dealing with. In any case, the fact is that there has been no change at all. I agree with what has been said earlier. Of course, the state must have high quality in the work that the state must have done, but so, excuse me: there are 5,000 lawyers in Denmark. There are also large offices, and I also believe that there are some who are larger than the Chamber Attorney's Office today, and they are also doing quite, quite high-quality work, and none of them will have any objection to signing that you do not take on work against the state, because you should not do so. You don't have to wear two hats at a time: against the state and for the state. But just like the DA's office, they do a lot of work for other customers, so there's nothing to prevent this from being outsourced and they can be considered. It is then said that there is satisfaction with the work of the DA in the state. Yes, the officials are satisfied. There is nothing to say about that, but it is, of course, the question of whether taxpayers are satisfied. That is not something to ask the officials: are you satisfied with this? Because it's not their money we spend on. We spend taxpayers' money. We are maintaining a monopoly in this area regardless of what it costs in this area and what it costs, there is a very good way of controlling it. Well, it's a call for tenders, and of course these tasks can be offered. It's not a problem. This can be done on a case-by-case basis. This can happen in many other areas, as I have described in the proposal. And to those who say that it is not possible, I must say: Go over the Sound, or go to Norway, or go to any other country in the world. There it can be done, so it should be possible to do so in Denmark as well. However, I fully agree that we need to ensure high quality and we need to ensure security of supply, and I can guarantee that there are thousands of lawyers who can secure those things for the state too. I have noted positively that the Minister for Finance raises this issue in various ways in the context of the Finance Act. At least that's something you can't mind if we have to discuss it. I have also noted that others want us to make a report, and one has to be a special creature to stand here from Parliament's platform and say that one is opposed to a report. But I usually sit around and say it depends a little on what's in it. Let's just eat some bread. Of course we in the Left are ready to look at different solutions. We look forward to the further examination of the proposal here, and that was the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505185621	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505185636	The debate is open. The Minister of Climate, Energy and Supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505185657	Thank you for that, President. Denmark probably has the most ambitious climate legislation in the world, and we do, because we have set a very high target for the reductions that we have to achieve. We need to reduce by 70%. in 2030 compared to 1990, and this is an objective that we have set on the basis of a calculation of what is necessary in order for us to be able to live up to the Paris Agreement. This is also something that many international organisations have highlighted as being extremely positive, and Denmark has been ranked several times as the best country in the world in terms of climate change, not least because of our climate legislation. But it is not only the objective that makes it ambitious; it is also a large number of other things, for example. the criteria and principles which are written into the law. If it were just about only and blindly reducing our CO2 that would hardly be appropriate. On the one hand, I do not think that very many Danes would think it desirable, but would it actually do what we want to achieve? I don't think so. Because the reason why we want an ambitious climate law in Denmark is, of course, that we want to influence other countries. We only stand for 0.1%. of the world's greenhouse gas emissions, which means that even if we just closed our country tomorrow from one day to the next, it would hardly be possible to measure it in the atmosphere. So when we do these things anyway, when we are ambitious, it is because we want to influence others, on the one hand, by taking the lead in setting the right example and showing that one can actually be a rich and innovative country with a high level of equality, with high employment and with good competitiveness, while at the same time having high ambitions in the climate area. And when we push ourselves to do more all the time, perhaps also set a target that is higher than what we really thought we could achieve, or at least had the means to achieve, when we set the target, as was the case with the 70%, we develop new technology and new solutions that we can use ourselves and that others can also use. We have shown that many times in history, and we are showing it again now. In addition, the law also has an annual wheel, which states that the Climate Council must make an independent assessment every year, in which the Danish Parliament must decide whether or not to be on the right path. It's just to mention a few examples. Overall, it is a very ambitious law. Does this mean that it is perfect and that it gives the overall, whole, full picture of Denmark's climate action, and does it also address all the challenges we have? No, of course not. I'm thinking that the intentions behind this proposal are that you want to correct some of the errors that are missing, you can say there's in the Climate Act. And I think that intention is kind of sympathetic, but I just don't think this is the way to do it. I think that it is very important that we in Denmark have a climate law that is directly comparable to climate laws in other countries and that we calculate our greenhouse gas emissions in the same way as other countries do and as the UN does. If we do not do this in Denmark, how are we actually going to be the pioneer country that we want, and how are people from other countries to be able to compare themselves with the Danish effort if we do not operate on the same parameters and use the same inventory methods? In addition, we are among those who are pushing the hardest in the world for the UN processes to become more ambitious and for higher reduction targets to be achieved in the UN, and then it would be a little strange if we ourselves did not use the targets that others are using the UN. And then I haven't even talked about the European Union yet. So for that reason I do not think it is a very good idea to change the inventory method in the Danish Climate Act. Having said that, it is important here to assess our overall global climate footprints, i.e. also those emissions that are not directly related to emissions from Denmark, of course, and that is why it is actually clear from the Climate Act that you have to make a global reporting that shows, as exactly as we can now with the methods we have now developed • I think it is also some of those that are the most sophisticated in the world, because not many do as we do • how well things are, where there is an improvement potential and where we are doing very well and can do even better. It is clear, of course, that there are some areas where our high consumption, because we are a rich country, also means that we make a certain impression elsewhere in the world, and we must address that, of course, because it is a responsibility we have. It is also clear that if it is to make any sense, like drawing a picture of what kind of image we as a country are putting on the planet, we must also bring with us those things that speak in a positive direction. And if you look at what Denmark does, partly through our regulatory collaborations with 19 countries around the world, which overall cover the vast majority of the world's greenhouse gas emissions, where we help with everything from district heating legislation in Scotland to energy efficiency efforts in Vietnam, to get the sea wind into a grid in China, you will see that all the efforts combined have of course a very, very great effect. This also applies to exports from our green companies producing green technology, because of course it also helps reduce emissions in the world, even considerably more than the emissions we have here in our own country, if you count in tonnes. So all in all I would like to say that, of course, I understand some of the reasons behind this proposal, but I must also say that I cannot support it for the reasons I have highlighted here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190245	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190248	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. Now, for a short time, I was beginning to think that the Minister had misunderstood the proposal, because it is not at the mercy of our 70-percent reduction, which covers territorial emissions, but is precisely about the consumption production of CO2. It is now the case that our territorial emissions are falling while our consumption-based increases, and that then counts aircraft, biomass, imports and transport. Does the Minister not think that the last statements made by the United Nations and the Climate Council show that we have to tackle everything?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190329	Yes, it is clear, and I think that is what I said in my speech. I would then urge the author to also read the climate report that the Danish authorities have produced, which is based not only on an aggregated analysis of the global problem, but actually highlights exactly what the proposer wants us to have clarified in Denmark. I mean, this is something we do and it gives us a very good tool to address the challenges that lie, also in addition to the emissions that count in the 70%.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190400	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190401	What does the Minister say about setting specific targets so that we can see that we are actually moving forward and so that it is not just something we say we are doing? Well, then we become concrete, and then we can see that it's moving something.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190414	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190415	It may well be that we have to move in that direction, but on the basis of how we have the opportunity to act now, when it is quite difficult to calculate these things methodically, I do not think it is wise to have such a separate goal. I can say, however, that if we had it, it is not the case that we have something to be embarrassed about in Denmark. I think we can easily reduce our global impressions, I think, but when you count things together, that is, both the things we do positively, and the things that are about us perhaps helping to create problems in the world because of our high consumption, you have to say that we are a country that really, really does it well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190452	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteurs. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mrs Paulin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190511	Thank you. B 81, which we are discussing in the Chamber now, is a well-known discussion. We had the debate in connection with the negotiations on the Climate Act, we discussed this in this Chamber in the past, and we would also like to take the debate again on what kind of emissions should be included in the Danish 70-percent reduction requirements. We in the Social Democratic Party believe that it is sensible that the 70-percent objective should be measured according to the usual UN methods. Our position on this matter is not due to the fact that we believe that they are 70%. alone is enough as a steering tool in our climate action. We are deeply concerned about the global dimension and Denmark's footprint in the world. But if Denmark is to make its own individual definition of what is counted and not counted in the 70-percent target, then there is a risk that we can end up in creative accounting. I certainly understand the arguments that we also have a consumption-based impressions from goods produced in other countries but bought and used in Denmark. On the other hand, Denmark also has a production of everything from cement to agricultural products with a high export share. So if you are to follow the logic of the Free Greens, a part of Aalborg Portland's production and large parts of Danish agriculture should no longer count in the Danish 70-percent objective if they are goods consumed in another country. It is probably just before that there are some lobbyists out there and think it sounds like a good idea But no, we must of course take responsibility for the conversion of the production that is taking place on Danish soil, and therefore the method of inventory for the 70-percent target also makes sense far along the way. But of course there is one, but it is crucial that we focus on the Danish climate footprint, also the part that cannot be seen in the 70-percent objective. Here we believe that the most recent Global Reporting 2022... that came recently is an important tool that highlights both Denmark's consumption-based prints in other countries on the one hand, but also on the other hand the great effort that we are making, for example. In the field of energy, regulatory cooperation. With our strong competences in energy systems and planning, Denmark helps to make a big global difference and ensure large reductions in CO2 But of course we are not finished discussing how to reduce both our biomass consumption and our consumption-based prints in addition. These are good and relevant discussions that we are very concerned about in the Social Democratic Party. And as already stated in the Climate Act, it is important that the Climate Act goes on two legs, i.e. both the 70-percent objective and the leg that is about the consumption-based outside Denmark. We look forward to continuing this work, but we cannot support B 81.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190804	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190809	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. I do not dispute that we should use the usual method recommended by the United Nations. What it is all about is looking at the consumption-based, and there are figures, and the rapporteur probably knows that what we import emits far more CO2 and that is what we have to figure out. And the Climate Council actually recommends in their last progress report that Denmark takes greater responsibility in relation to the consumption-based global emissions, for example. by setting targets for air and sea traffic. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190848	It can be said that the motion for a resolution tabled by the Green Group says that we must do something that is not in line with the United Nations inventory methods; so that is the proposal that is on the table here. However, I do recognise the other points made by the rapporteur that we have a high level of consumption in the world, as we are, of course, also drawing on some resources out there and that it is important that it is highlighted so that we can also act on it. That is where I think we have got a very good tool with global reporting and that we should have it as an important focus in the future. And, of course, we have already had a lot of focus on biomass, on reducing it and ensuring that the biomass we use is sustainable, but, of course, that we need much less biomass in the future. So far along the way I certainly share the intention that this is also an important part of the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190951	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505190952	I just think that with the statements and statements coming from the Climate Council, the IPCC, etc., it is no longer enough to focus and report; then something concrete has to happen. And in fact, on page 33 of their latest report, the Climate Council says: Denmark's share of foreign transport by ships and aircraft should be included when planning how the net zero target should be achieved. This will increase the need for carbon, but it will be necessary to include these sectors in order to achieve global climate targets. This proposal is a suggestion for an opportunity to do so, and if the rapporteur does not want to use it, what then?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191034	Well, I fully agree that it is important that we also look at shipping and air traffic. It is also part of the government's green road map that we include. This year will look at the aviation industry and what we can do there. After all, we have drawn up a strategy for green fuels earlier this year and made an agreement on what will, of course, give a boost to the fact that we can actually produce some green fuels that we can get on the aircraft. So air traffic and shipping are certainly something we focus on, even if it is not part of the 70-percent target.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191109	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so thank you to Mrs Paulin. And then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, Mrs. Marie Bjerre.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191116	Thank you. The motion for a resolution is very much a re-submission of a motion for a resolution which we discussed last year, and the Left has not changed its position since then. That is why I can also refer to the rapporteur's speech to the similar motion for a resolution, B 69, from last year. We continue to believe that a global outlook is positive, and thank the proposers for bringing that dimension into play. In fact, we often think that this is missing in the climate debate, but we do not think that the proposers' proposals are the right one. Firstly, we do not believe that it is a good idea to go Danish alone in the fight against climate challenges, and that is why international standards are needed in relation to CO2 inventory. Secondly, the big problem with the proposal here is that the only thing we can do to reduce the CO2 emissions from consumption is because Denmark does not have the same means of regulating how to produce in other countries, and we believe that we need freedom and economic growth precisely if we are to be able to afford the green transition and if we are to be able to inspire the rest of the world to be a green pioneer country. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191240	Thank you for that and there is a brief comment. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191243	In the ideal world, all countries went together to do something for this, but unfortunately we are not in the ideal world. Then we do not have a commitment as a rich country that has the opportunities, to show the way, in terms of how we can reduce our global CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191305	Yes, I believe we have an obligation to do everything we can to combat climate change. However, I do not believe that we are doing so with the rapporteur's proposals here, actually quite the opposite. For this proposal will limit freedom and economic growth. This will mean that we do not have the opportunity to make the green transition that is needed. This will mean that there is no possibility of being an economic pioneer on the green transition, which can inspire other countries to be green too and make them see that green conversion and economic growth can easily go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191337	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191338	Well, now it is the case that the quantity of raw materials in our world is not unlimited. If everyone used as many raw materials as we do, we'd need 4.2 planets. So I simply do not understand the idea that we should continue to grow. That means we're using resources from future generations... then there's nothing left for them. Can the rapporteur not see that it is problematic that we continue to consume and consume, both in relation to resources, but also because we emit so much CO2?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191411	Yes, but what I'm talking about is economic growth, that is to say, you keep being a rich pioneer country. Because, of course, we need to look at Earth's resource consumption. We are over-consumers, and that is precisely where we need to take action. However, the rapporteur's tool here will not work because what the rapporteur's tool does is that it restricts imports. This will limit economic growth. This limits the possibility that we can make the green transition, where you need fewer of Earth's resources, where you emit less CO2 The result will be that there are no other countries that will follow us, and thus we will not get the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191446	Thank you, Mrs Bjerre. There are no more brief comments. Then it's SF's rapporteur, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191453	When we negotiated the Climate Act, we had great discussions about how to build it, how to make up the various figures and what to be included in it. The choice that was made was very clear. We said: we are copying the way in which the UN agreements there are, and that is where we are setting a specific reduction target. What I'm so glad we were getting into this Climate Act is some of the other things, because it's not done with a 70-percent objective. Some of the important things we got into the Climate Act are among other things. the annual wheel that makes us constantly and constantly discuss and assess the efforts of a government. And the second is about the global perspective in it. There were two things that we got into the Climate Act that are really, really important and that talk into the intentions behind this proposal. One is that the government will be obliged to report separately annually on the international effects. And I think it's nice to see when you see the development of those reports, how things get better and better. We're getting better and better at doing it, and we're getting better and better at seeing how these numbers are connected and where we can do something about it. The second part is also that the government is also obliged to draw up an annual global strategy which deals with the efforts that need to be made in the world and in climate policy. So I think we got some really good stuff. In addition, we also got an ambition mechanism into the agreement that we will need, especially on top of the good result that the climate minister helped to secure in Glasgow, in terms of raising our ambitions all the time. We'll see about that when we get to 2025. I know it may seem incalculable when we struggle to achieve the goals we are talking about now, but it is just like what is in our climate law, and that is why it is so good. We do not believe that there is a need to create a version 2.0. We also discussed this last proposal. We believe that it is a good climate law that we have. And the clarity of all the other efforts than the even 70-percent reduction target is luminously clear when we look at the global reporting we have just received, where we among other things. Look at how much consumption is in this. That is also one of the reasons why we from the SF made a consumer initiative a few weeks ago, where we go in and see how we can do something about the part of the climate load that is there. So we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191748	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191751	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. The rapporteur attaches a great deal of importance to reporting, and it is good to have a report, but it can, of course, be in every possible direction. In other words, what does the rapporteur have against achieving concrete targets for our consumption-related CO2 emissions?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191812	Well, what I have against it is that it is so important that when we act in relation to the climate crisis, as well as doing a lot at home, we also constantly see ourselves in an international context. That's why there's gotta be that mirror. I also think it is very clear from the comments that we should look a little aside from the reflection that is in relation to the UNFCCC's way of doing things. That is what is so important to say: we are not alone in this. We can't get this total national self-centeredness where we're only looking at how we do these things ourselves. We need to look out and look at how we do all things in a context, and this reporting is a hugely important tool to see the effects out there in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191852	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191853	But would the rapporteur not think that, while we are looking at this globally, it would also be good to take the lead? And it does not affect the rapporteur that our consumption-based CO2 is going to be able to say that we have basically reached a level where we continue to consume as much CO2 as we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191920	Well, it makes a huge impression on me when I see what lies in that debriefing. That is also why we have just come up with the idea of going in and looking at how we can do something about these things. For that is where we need to act all the time, but we also need to see climate policy in an international context where we must be able to constantly calculate and measure together with other countries, because it is a global effort that needs to be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191944	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505191952	Thank you. We are very much in favour of Denmark reporting to the UN so that we can compare what we report with what other countries are doing. That is what the authors of the motion for a resolution want to change. For what is specifically stated is that the Danish Parliament requires the government to submit by the end of 2022 a draft Climate Act 2.0 which ensures that the 70-percent reduction target in the Climate Act also includes Denmark's consumption-related emissions. We do not like that to be done, but we in the Enhedslist are very much in favour of us having a great deal of focus on what is not counted in the official statement that we are sending to the UN. It is therefore extremely interesting to look at the recent printed matter of global emissions, which are not really included in official statistics. It is interesting to see that it is made up of the fact that imports of soya have a climate impact of 4 million. a. It then counts out in South America, and then we have some pigs and some milk powder that is exported from Denmark, where then there is some production that counts in ours. I also find it interesting that we have come so far that we are now beginning to relate to the fact that if we did not produce the soy for the Danish pigs, we could actually produce something else in the Latin American countries. It is, of course, the global context that we find interesting to have in mind as well. So there we agree that we should not focus solely on what we have to report under the Paris agreement; we must also look at everything else. There, of course, it is interesting to have figures that can be taken as a starting point. There is also the fact that flights to and from Denmark have a load of 6 million. a. That's a big number. That's good one ton per. Dane. This must give rise to a discussion of how we go on holiday and whether some of these business trips could take place virtually in Denmark instead. When we look at the printed matter we have received, we have not included an assessment of the biomass that we have in Denmark, and I hope that the printed matter we will have next year will also start to look at the biomass burning that is from imported biomass in Denmark. What are we rightly supposed to do with the wood pellets, and what is the load from the chips that are imported? So I think that global vision is incredibly important. But I do not think that we will achieve it and get it done in the best way by deciding on this motion for a resolution. I would like to have something where we can clearly see from year to year how it is moving in Denmark in relation to the Paris Agreement. And I would rather work towards raising our reduction target in Denmark to 80% rather than going in and doing something disturbing compared to the way we settle things. So it is on the grounds that we cannot endorse the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192319	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192322	Thank you, and thanks to the rapporteur, for producing all these ugly figures too, one might say. I do not know whether our comments are a little clumsy, but the idea is that we are sticking to our 70-percent reduction and that inventory system there, but where we really want to back it up to 80%. Next to that, we look at our consumption-based CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192357-2	I shall not be able to say whether there is anything in the motion for a resolution that is not what is intended to be put forward. I don't know. That is, of course, a little unfortunate if that is the case. However, it is good to hear that there are more people who also think that we should have a debate on whether the 70-percent target should be increased to an 80-percent target, because with the latest IPCC report there is something that indicates that we only have about 3 years to act on until we have to turn the curves seriously, and if we in Denmark are somewhere where we are able to do even more, and I think that when we look at how we can easily increase our renewable energy production, if we, I think, have a great deal of support in the population for more to be done, and if we can have good cooperation with municipalities, citizens and associations, I think we could actually make progress and have support for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192457	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192458	I fully agree with that. Well, we just need to figure out what the road is, and then it can't just keep talking. That is why I also think it is good to hear the rapporteur say, as I understand it at least, that the Enhedslisten is also in favour of saying that we must set specific objectives and look at a number of different ways of achieving those objectives. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192523	Well, we'd love to work on sub-topics. We have among other things. in writing. - (FR) The proposal that we should make a stop to soya imports, which comes from areas where deforestation is taking place, and then we had a major debate about whether the soya imports that are are sustainable was enough. After all, such debates help to set the agenda. This is the kind of thing we need to get more of where we look at it in concrete terms and see if we can do more. We're 100% for that in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192555	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192606	Thank you for the floor. B 81 is a resubmission of an earlier proposal from the same authors. That proposal was voted down, it was rejected by all parties other than the proposers and Enhedslisten, and I find it difficult to see that the substance is not exactly the same as last time, namely to include our so-called consumption-related emissions in our climate legislation and the 70-percent target. It's very sympathetic. I understand why, but it just doesn't make sense to drop our internationally recognised inventory method. After all, it is quite important that all the countries of the world agree on how to settle it. We can then compare, even if it poses challenges and shortcomings. The time has come to achieve our objectives and not to make new findings, and that is why we Conservatives will not be voting in favour of the proposal at this time either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192708	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192711	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. It is quite true that it is virtually a re-submission. There are a few adjustments. However, does the rapporteur not agree that the situation is actually significantly different this year than it was last year? Well, we have such a small window to prevent these temperature increases, like... in relation to the rise in water levels may mean so much to our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192740	Well, I fully agree that the temperature increases that we are looking into right now are disastrous, and I also fully agree that we must do everything we can to reduce the temperature increases, but I do not agree that this proposal is the means to achieve this objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192759	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. And then it's sir. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505192806	As our climate rapporteur has no opportunity to meet today, on his behalf I should like to say the following: the proposal is specifically about requiring the government to submit a proposal for a new climate law that ensures that the 70-percent reduction target in the Climate Act also includes Denmark's consumption-related emissions, i.e. greenhouse gases, emissions from our consumption and combustion of biomass. The proposal is a re-submission of motion for a resolution No. B 69 in the year 2020-21. The prospects in the proposal are in many ways sympathetic and logical. It makes sense that if a Dane eats an imported steak from Argentina, it will count in our climate accounting. Conversely, it must mean that goods that Denmark exports to the rest of the world should be deducted from our climate impact. On the basis of this logic, the resolution makes sense, as I said, and a calculation method that takes this into account will probably be an advantage for Denmark, which, as we know, over the last few decades has had a surplus in the balance of payments by exporting more than we import. If, however, the proposal, which has already been dealt with in the past, is dived a little deeper, it is unfortunately not the above logic that prevails. Instead, it is a case of adding an additional pillar to the Climate Act, which concerns emissions on the basis of a principle of consumption and emissions from the burning of biomass. However, as described in the proposal, there is considerable uncertainty about the figures for greenhouse gas emissions according to the principle of consumption, depending on the method of calculation and data sources. Furthermore, the Danish People's Party does not really address the major climate contexts in the overall climate accounting I mentioned earlier. Any adjustment of the calculation methods should be based on an overall view and not resolved by the proposed additions. All in all, this is a motion for a resolution with prospects, but unfortunately we are heading in the wrong direction. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505193022	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And then there are no more rapporteurs in the Chamber, apart from the rapporteur for the proposers. Here you go, Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505193041	Thank you. And thank you for the debate. I may not be able to say that because it is the end of the evening and there has not been so much response, but still. I think that the impression I get from the rapporteurs, at least from most of them, is that we are waiting a little in relation to other countries, and that happens, while we are one of the most climate-laden countries if we measure at the level of the population. What is being said is that we will be green on paper. But will we really be? only reduction targets and make plans to reduce emissions, as the UN and the EU force us to do? The Free Greens' proposal for a Climate Act 2.0 is more or less a re-submission of the proposal we debated last year. Back then, we only received support from Enhedslisten, but I hope that time and the long series of gloomy, bleak future scenarios from the world's leading climate scientists have massaged a little other thoughts into the minds of my colleagues, or I had hoped for that. So it wasn't quite like that. Denmark is very climate-laden. One could actually say that we are climate pigs in different ways. Our consumption footprints are among the highest in the world. A Dane emits more than 17 Indians together. We import soy from South America, which seizes an area larger than Zealand and Lolland combined. Arizona is kneeling and can hardly restore itself as a result of deforestation and soy production for our steaks at home. We import about 40%. of our biomass from abroad, but we do not relate to the loss of biodiversity and deforestation caused, for example, by forests. the Baltic countries. When the rapporteurs from all other parties talk about leakage as an argument not to reduce emissions at home because they are afraid that it will occur in other countries, it sounds good and is obviously important to take account of the fact that emissions do not come into other countries. But is it the same when we take into account that we actually have to act, in other words change behaviour? Our consumption-based emissions do not count in the official accounts, the ones we have to deliver to the international community, over what we call CO2 but emissions exist and they are our responsibility. While we are making emission action plans within Denmark, we clearly forget that we live in a world that is much larger. We are responsible for the production of the services and goods we consume in Denmark, even if the emissions rise from factories elsewhere in the world. And, of course, we are also responsible for the transport of goods here. It is therefore our climate-laden demand that increases the emissions of other countries and contributes to the global climate crisis. We cannot and must not ignore this if we want to be aware of our responsibilities. I am not calling into question the United Nations inventory methods. This is about the fact that, in addition to the emissions we report to the United Nations, we must also take responsibility for the emissions for which we are responsible, in terms of our consumption. We must therefore have reduction targets for those emissions, and we do not have real reduction targets for them now. The fact that we do not count flights in our reduction targets is absurd, that we do not count emissions of biomass in our reduction targets is absurd and that we do not count our consumption is absurd. That is why, of course, we need to supplement the territorial accounts so that we actually take responsibility for what we are actually deriving. And yes, we must consume less, we must fly less, and we must eat less meat. In its latest report, the UN Climate Panel emphasises that we have a tiny, fast-closing window to curb the worst consequences of the climate crisis. It is about our survival, and it is about taking responsibility for a global emergency, which we have been one of the main driving forces behind for many, many years. In addition to reduction targets, no action plans. Therefore, the first small step is to include our consumption-based emissions in the Climate Act. I hope that the other parties will acknowledge this and I hope that at some point we will arrive at something similar to a Climate Act 2.0. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505193525	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Climate, Energy and Supply. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220505193538	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 6 May 2022, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
