ParlaMint-DK_20220503130002	The meeting is open. I have received notification from the Prime Minister of the recently implemented government raid. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk. According to my recommendation, by Royal Resolution of 2 May 2022 it has been decided that I may ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Mette Frederiksen Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Foreign Affairs (Jeppe Kofod): Bill no. L 193 (Proposal for a law on Denmark's participation in European cooperation in the field of security and defence by abolishing the EU defence reserve) and Bill No. L 194 (Proposal for a law on the holding of a referendum on the proposal for a law on the participation of Denmark in European cooperation in the field of security and defence by abolishing the EU defence reserve). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Sikandar Siddique (FG) and others I have been informed that they want to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the preparation of a national action plan against racism and discrimination. B 58). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503130103	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are five proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 75 of Rasmus Stoklund (S), and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. For the vote 28 (S), against 73 (V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Nas Khader (UFG), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 75 has been rejected. We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 74 by Pia Kjærsgaard (DF), and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 12 (DF, NB, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Nas Khader (UFG), against voting 90 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and FG), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 74 has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 76 by Mads Fuglede (V), Marcus Knuth (KF) and Henrik Dahl (LA), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 39 (V, KF, DF, LA and Nas Khader (UFG)), against voting 63 (S, SF, RV, EL, NB, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and 2 DF (by mistake)), neither for nor against voting 0. Proposal for adoption No V 76 has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 77 by Rosa Lund (EL), Carl Valentin (SF) and Kathrine Olldag (RV), and voting is possible. The vote shall be closed. For the vote: 28 (SF, RV, EL and FG), against 74 (S, V, KF, DF, NB, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Nas Khader (UFG), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 77 is rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 78 by Sikandar Siddique (FG), and a vote can be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 2 (FG), against 100 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG), Karina Adsbøl (UFG) and Nas Khader (UFG)), abstention 0. Proposal for adoption No V 78 is rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503130349	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503130411	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (NB and Lise Bech (UFG)) and can be voted on. The vote shall be closed. For voting 11 (DF, NB, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG) and Karina Adsbøl (UFG)), against voting 91 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA, FG and Naser Khader (UFG)), abstention 0. The amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503130443	The debate is now about the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503130452	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote shall be closed. In favour of voting 13 (DF, NB, FG, Bent Bøgsted (UFG), Hans Kristian Skibby (UFG) and Karina Adsbøl (UFG), against voting 90 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, LA and Nas Khader (UFG)), abstention 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503130519	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503130543	If we want to vote on Amendment No 1, we will vote on Amendment No 3. 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill proceed directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503130605	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503130622	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503130729	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Henrik Møller.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503130736	We are in a situation where the Danish economy stands strong. Unemployment is historically low. In March we experienced an unemployment rate of 21⁄2%. of the total labour force. It does not come of itself, of course, but is a result of the government and a majority in the responsible and, above all, fair economic policy of the Folketing, which has been conducted over the last few years. It is good, not only for the economy but also for the many cash aid recipients, the long-term unemployed, non-western immigrants, those who have been at the back of the job queue, who have now also joined the world's best community, the working community. There are many good reasons to rejoice. But we are also listening to the Danish companies that lack hands in the workplace. For recruitment challenges may slow growth and progress throughout Denmark. This requires both long-term and short-term initiatives. Therefore, in January, responsible parties in the Folketing entered into an ambitious agreement on a new reform package which will first and foremost strengthen the Danish labour market, the competitiveness of companies and the green transition. I will briefly mention a few of the results of the agreement: by means of the agreement we are increasing the amount of free allowances in su as we strengthen the incentives of graduates to get more quickly into jobs. We will abolish the green cheque for non-pensioners and increase the supplementary green cheque for children. We increase the security of ordinary employees by strengthening the benefit system. We will reduce the electricity tax and translate the reserve for the North Sea Agreement. We want to increase the maximum employment allowance, and, last but not least, we want to abolish the spouse offset for pensioners, which is also what this bill is about. The draft law that we are to deal with concerns those parts of the agreement •Further in jobs and a stronger labour market • which is about giving seniors stronger incentives to work after the retirement age and getting more into work. It is a question of abolishing the spouse swap so that more pensioners and seniors no longer have to worry about the financial consequences of wanting to give an extra hand in the labour market, where, in fact, there is also a good need for their competences. It is also about the fact that, for a period of three years, the municipalities are not able to disallow early retirement for pensioners who wish and are able to take additional employment. Overall, the bill here helps to remove the barriers which pensioners may experience or be concerned about and which therefore prevent them from contributing. It makes good sense, of course, when Danish companies need them and their skills and experience. That is why I am proud that the Social Democracy, together with DF, SF, Radical Left and Christian Democrats, has taken responsibility for the Danish economy and made an ambitious agreement for the benefit of society, the economy and for the many people affected by the current rules. Thank you. That is why, of course, we in the Social Democrats can also vote in favour of this bill. In this context, I hope that the bourgeois parties have come to their senses and drop their political subtleties in the context of spouse opposition. I think we all have a responsibility to find the good solutions. It is also the bourgeois, who somewhere has called out in relation to cultural changes about the pressure of work at Christiansborg. We support it in this way and therefore it seems a little odd when we are going to deal with two, in fact, almost equivalent proposals in relation to this one a little later in the day. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131133	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, and it is only from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131139	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur directly whether the rapporteur believes that it is reasonable for an early retirement pensionist to have a cohabitation rate, because there are economies of scale, and then to support his partner, who gets DKK 0, because the partner is on cash benefits and is still suffering from mutual dependency. Does the rapporteur think that is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131203	It's the pensions here and the spouses we're talking about and about which there's a bill, and that's what I'm dealing with as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131214	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131216	Now the starting point was my question, and the rapporteur chose not to answer that question. And that is very topical, because right now, in the negotiations on benefits, we are talking about whether or not we should abolish the mutual dependent for cash benefits recipients. After all, it is precisely about the early retirement pensionist. This is a specific person; it is a real person who right now has economies of scale and therefore has to support his partner who gets 0 DKK. I would like to know if the rapporteur thinks that is reasonable. The second point is whether the rapporteur believes that young people are taking an education just to be able to be on the daily allowance, whether the rapporteur really has that distrust of young people, and whether the rapporteur has no imagination at all to imagine that it could be anything other than the daily allowance of the newly trained people who should be financing Denmark can do more.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131303	The last part of the question will probably be dealt with in the next legislative proposal, and then we can take the debate there, in terms of whether it is fair or not. On the second part, as Mrs Victoria Velasquez herself says, we are doing something about the system of benefits, and then let us park it there. And then we have to discuss what can be achieved by results on set-off also in relation to that group.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131329	The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131331	Thank you. The rapporteur said that there are recruitment challenges in society. Is it not the case that if there is too much labour available, employers are using it to push workers' wages and their working and environmental conditions? However, at times when there is a shortage of labour, it is an opportunity to correct precisely the inequalities and injustices that exist in the workplace, in terms of wages, in terms of working conditions and so on. Then employers can learn it so that they show due care and train some people in time. And they're supposed to feel that, aren't they? Surely it should not be the case that we only bear the wishes of the employers and not the wishes of the workers?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131425	Well, I don't know if it was actually more a comment than it was a definite question. I actually see it as more like that. I think that we have to deal with the fact that there is a deficiency. There I just think that, in addition to the content of this whole set-off perspective, I just want to say that the removal of what we are going to do in this, also has the side effect that we can probably help remedy the deficiency, so that some more come out and deliver a few hands to this. So that's such a positive gain over and above what's at the heart of the content, that's the fact that we're not doing this punishment to these families.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131508	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131511	I understand the answer that the Socialists will say bob-bob like that when we discuss how to strengthen the working class in the workplace and how to strengthen their situation so that they get good pay and good working conditions and working conditions, so that employers are squeezed a little in a situation where there is a shortage of labour, instead of constantly trying to say: Well, we have to help employers still So, I understand that the Socialists are moving away from the old clear positions on who they are keeping to the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131541	I think that is actually an interpretation... is the rapporteur's own words and considerations in relation to this. Well, we've just celebrated a 1st of May, where I think we can deliver a long string of results in relation to the total labour movement. And one of the things we are celebrating in connection with 1 May is that that fight is not, of course, finished. So, of course, much remains to be achieved. However, I am glad that we have a legislative proposal today which goes in and abolishes the set-off in the pension. I think that is a good step on the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131620	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131623	I am also one of those who are pleased that the Social Democratic Party has changed its attitude on this issue. In other words, we need no more than a year back, when we dealt with matters here, the Social Democratic Party stood and spoke against it here, the Prime Minister spoke against it, the Employment Minister spoke against it, various rapporteurs spoke against it and said that it was a guiding principle that you had to support yourself and yours, and that this would go in and break with it, so it was a very bad idea. Could the rapporteur not try to explain what has changed in that year? What kind of debate has the Social Democratic Party made wiser than it was a year ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131659	Well, until things are like a reality and put forward, you are bound by the position you have taken. But it is clear that it has been a long process; we have listened to a great many good forces in society, who have tried so hard to draw our attention to the injustice that for a great many families has been in this connection. So we've been listening to what's happening around us. And then we would just like to welcome the fact that today we are discussing this bill and so little regret that New Citizens are not voting for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131739	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131741	Now I have not been on the platform to explain our position yet, so I do not know where the rapporteur is from. But that means that it is an injustice that you do away with. A year ago, the Social Democratic Party thought it was okay that that injustice was there, or was it not considered an injustice a year ago? Well, that's what I'm asking. Was it also unfair a year ago, but the Social Democrats did not want to change it, or has it now changed, so that a year ago it was not unfair, but now it has suddenly become unfair? Well, you can't eat with both hands, can you?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131817	I think you can eat with both hands; I don't see that there are any problems with that. However, I think that in my speech before I said that there are processes and things that are evolving and changing, which mean that sometimes we also change our position from what it has been in the past. This will also be the case with this government, with regard to what socialists have said in the past. There is a development and we have followed that development and I think we are making a real decision today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131848	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131853	Thank you, sir. Henrik Møller. I just think there was a little missing from Mr. Knox. Henrik Møller's speech. For as it stands now, the government does not have a majority in favour of its legislative proposal without the small community of six non-attached Members that I represent supporting it. That's why it just fell to my chest that Mr. Henrik Møller did not mention us in connection with that. After all, we are no longer in the Danish People's Party, and thus there is no majority in favour of the law without our voting in favour. That's why I just thought it was appropriate that Mr. Henrik Møller mentioned it from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503131947	It shows how reality develops and changes all the time. When you started with this, it was a reality, and today, when we are dealing with the first reading of the bill, it is suddenly a new reality that has changed. One can say that when we concluded the agreement, it was with the Danish People's Party. And, of course, I am sorry that I do not quite know what it looks like in relation to Gæs and Gaser about the very agreement that lies here. But since Mr. Bent Bøgsted was one of those who helped to conclude the agreement, I hope then that the commitment in itself still applies. So I'm sorry I didn't mention you as a group, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503132029	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503132031	Thank you. It's just that everything has to be in order so that the government doesn't take anything for granted, so that's just the way it is. I'll explain it when I go to the platform in the end. It's at the end of the day before the Minister has to get up. Then I've been allowed to go to the platform. Then I will explain what my little group, the working community that we call Gæs and Gaser is, so that it does not have to be confused with a party saying about this bill. But it's just to make sure that Mr. Henrik Møller does not think that everything was in place in advance until everyone has been up to their opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503132110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503132112	Copy that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503132115	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. I have also noted that Mr. Bent Bøgsted would like to take part in the rapporteur's series. Okay, that's it. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and that is Mr. Hans Andersen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503132127	Thank you. The Left supports the fact that we are allowing pensioners, senior pensioners and early retirement pensioners to take additional work without having to be set off against the pension. For us, it is important that everyone who wants to contribute to the working community should be given the opportunity to do so, and that is why we even in the Left proposed removing the set-off in the pension in our financial law priorities for 2022. It is important that you do not be withdrawn from your pension if you want to contribute at a time when companies are very much lacking in labour. It is basically about ensuring that Danish seniors gain more freedom and more opportunities. We also welcome the fact that the government, with the Danish People's Party, Gæs and Gaser, SF, Radical Left, Christian Democrats, is now also proposing to remove the set-off in one's pension because of one's partner's income. This is needed at a time when unemployment is low and there is an acute shortage of labour in several sectors, and therefore it is absolutely crucial that people have the best conditions for freedom to choose for themselves whether to contribute to the labour market after a pension has been awarded. So, on this basis, we would like to discuss this proposal further. This must be seen in the context of the fact that the Left and a number of parties have a similar proposal on today's agenda not only to remove the set-off of one's partner's income from one's pension but also to remove the set-off of one's pension from one's own income. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503132319	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mr. Karsten Hønge. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503132331	Today we do it. By a joint effort of parties here in the Folketing and active movements outside the Folketing, it is now possible, after many years of struggle, to face a major social step. We are eliminating the wage-income dependency of pensioners. With the current rules, the state hits families with stupid fines if one is retired while the partner is working. 30% the pension disappears when the total contract exceeds a certain amount and it hits quite ordinary jobs. SF, along with movements outside the Folketing, has been hammering this injustice for years, and today we are going to finally abolish the set-off for wage income. There will still be set-off for certain payments from insurance companies, and we are still working on removing them, but this has to be done in the second wave. This proposal that we are implementing now also comes as a wave after the resolution in which we made a special exception for corona-related work. I am quite sure that although that agreement was only a small victory in a corner of the battlefield, it was among other things. the debate that helped open its eyes to many people. There are so many grotesque situations where the pensioner pays for the partner's work. It could be the prison warden who told me about the desperate shortage of trained staff and therefore that he is being charged with extra guards, but his family gets much less out of it than the colleague who lives with a healthy partner. I talked to a truck driver who, after a long period of extraordinary work, saw a large part of the income disappear as a feature of the partner's pension. The same economic hammer hits the family, one of which is a teacher at a post-school in Funen and received a bonus after leading new projects, while the colleague, who had a non-retired partner, got more out of it financially. It's unfair, so it doesn't matter! Or what about the soldier veteran who consecrated me in his dramatic history as sent out in Denmark's service. Violent experiences led to a difficult ptsd, and he very much deserves the early retirement that he is now receiving. But when his wife works as a cleaning assistant, the family's finances move across the border, and they must see that one third are retired. When and how much do they never know, and it is stressful to people who certainly should not be burdened any more. I've been talking to people all over the country, and it's the same frustrating story every time. It is Lars from Odense who is retired blacksmith and where the partner is sosu-helper. She also worked between Christmas and New Year and then gets a bill of DKK 6,000. Kirsten is the intensive nurse in Slagelse and is constantly being called upon to do extra work, but the husband at home has to hand in a large part of the money. Frank at Tåsinge is everywhere the same injustice that affects early retirement, old-age pensioners and senior pensioners alike. It is extra shifts in nursing homes and rest days that are nevertheless exchanged for work at the hospital, and that is good for society, but if the partner is a pensioner, a financial knuckle comes with it. While the employees show a social spirit, the state carries out a home robbery if the partner is a pensioner. It has to stop! Then it is calculated with retroactive effect, so that there is constant uncertainty and insecurity in the affected families, and the taxation, if we can call it that, is easy to reach approx. 75% Pension with one hand and with the other hand get these families a slap. But pensioners do not have to pay the bill when the partner works. It's a hopeless old-fashioned thought. Self-employed people have the right to their own economy, no one should experience the humiliation of being in the pockets of their partner, and pensioners should not be dragged around in a guilty conscience over being on hold. We set people free when we show respect for their own lives, for it is unworthy of under-authorising people. It's a good day today!
ParlaMint-DK_20220503132746	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503132752	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for a good speech. After all, the rapporteur and I are also sitting side by side in the benefit negotiations that we are currently having, and there I am pleased with the cooperation that we have. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur would not like to add a few words to the question I also put to the Socialist rapporteur, a co-existing early retirement pensionist who gets the early retirement that is being done because there should be economies of scale, but boom! is caught because the spouse is a recipient of cash benefits and is affected by mutual dependents on cash benefits and thus receives 0 DKK. What does the rapporteur think about this? Shouldn't we do something about that problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503132833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503132835	Yes, it is true that there are situations where you can say that this is quite obviously unfair: when you get twice the amount of cash aid, you are responsible for financing your partner. And, look, there is a balance we have to find between the fact that, on the one hand, I clearly believe that this amount should be substantially higher, and, on the other hand, I would like us to calculate something more, what the consequences will be, for the challenge, and this is also very much the case for the Enhedslisten, that if you get cash aid alone, without any set-off, we risk this being a solution that a number of people choose instead of choosing to go into the cash register. So we need to find a solution to this and I agree that we need to find a different limit than the one that is today, which is unreasonably low. On the other hand, we must be careful just to unleash it, because it can put the cashiers in the face of unfair competition, and it can then lead to a lot of other negative consequences.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503132926	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503132928	I fully agree that we need to strengthen the possibility of joining the 'A' box and also of people wanting to organise themselves and join the 'A' box. The problem is that it has a lot of other consequences, as it is today. For example, my mother is working at a crisis center for violent spouses, and the fact that you are made financially dependent on your partner can make it even more difficult, for example. will out of a toxic relationship or something. But should we not do it next time when we have a debate and then try to see if we cannot challenge the Social Democratic Party a little? I am also looking forward to hearing what Radicals' view will be on that and then get moved also on the mutual dependent for cash benefits recipients?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503133011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503133013	Well, Enhedslisten and SF have the same thoughts far along the way, but I have these others with me that if I'm going to be involved in making some solutions, it has to be in the way that I'm quite sure it doesn't hit unemployment, because it has some other completely dramatic consequences for our labour market. That's one. The second is that the problem of maintaining oneself in a relationship because one is dependent on the other's economy is solved precisely if one breaks out, because then one gets one's own cash aid, and then one is no longer dependent on the partner anymore. One last thing I want to say is that the very fact that there is a deduction when two live together, I am actually in favour of it. In other words, there is a deduction and that it is different for early retirement and old-age pensioners, but the very fact that, to a certain extent, there is a deduction, because there is a large-scale advantage, I can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503133056	Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. There are no more brief comments to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503133113	Thank you very much. The bill here is about abolishing set-off in social pensions when your spouse works. This is the result of an agreement that my fellow rapporteur from the Social Democratic Party presented here from the platform, and when he went through much of the elements of the agreement, I would really just like to stick mostly to the draft law here. I think it is very good that there is an incentive to spend a few more hours on the labour market, because it is actually the opposite that has happened when this set-off has taken place. An extra effort and several hours on the labour market is something that is really needed right now. We've seen a similar model under corona, so that's how we've tried this, and I thought it was really good, and it's good that we get it spread out too. We have discussed this in Parliament before, and I have stood on the platform as a representative of the Radical Left and have been able to see the arguments of both sides both for abolition and for keeping it. One of the arguments for abolishing this set-off has been the economic dependence on one's partner, and that is what I am, among other things. will highlight today. Another thing that this proposal contains is that early retirement pensioners are not denied their early retirement for a three-year period, which means that you should not be worried about losing your early retirement pension if you participate in the labour market. So there are several good elements in this bill, and the Radical Left supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503133302	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503133307	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. At their annual meeting, the Radical Left adopted a resolution in relation to the issue of independence and interdependence, and we have discussed it in a couple of rounds, including in relation to where the parliamentary group is standing. As the rapporteur has also said, we have had occasion to do so both with citizens' proposals, resolutions and so on. However, I would like to hear how radicals are in relation to something which I think is quite obviously unfair and which, in fact, is a little the same as we were around both with the SF and with the Social Democratic Party, namely this early retirement pensionist, who is, after all, receiving an early retirement pension as a co-habitant, because he is married to a cash aid recipient and has to provide for it. But there are not so many economies of scale when it is the case that your spouse gets 0 DKK. What do Radicals think we are going to do about the problem if Radicals think we should do something about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503133406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503133408	My answer is actually somewhat similar to what Mrs Victoria Velasquez has also received from both the Socialist rapporteur and the SF rapporteur, namely that I actually see that there is a challenge there. It is not included in this bill, but we are open to discussing it in the Radical Left. Mrs Victoria Velasquez is familiar with the radical resolution of our national meeting and has also had that advance in the Parliamentary Chamber on a number of occasions, and it is also an expression of, of course, radical positions which are in the hinterland. A challenge is always funding, and that is also why I have stood here in Parliament's platform at the rounds we have had discussing this and have been able to take arguments for both of them, because it is also important that things are financed and that is a challenge that we must then solve together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503133505	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503133507	In fact, I think we can find funding that we could agree on, but I look forward to going to the negotiating rooms. I am just thinking that here we are abolishing the principles of mutual dependency for some parts of our society, and that is really good. There are then still some old-age pensioners and early retirement pensioners who will be affected by the principle of mutual dependency if, for example, they are: is married to someone on cash benefits, so that is why I think it is really connected, also because we are not quite in the finish line. But if we say that we agree on funding, do radicals agree that we have to abolish the principles of mutual dependency for everyone, or what is the situation there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503133546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503133548	It is, in fact, true that things are connected. Because what Mrs Velasquez points out is a number of principles, namely that one is financially independent of one's spouse, and that one is given an incentive to actually put extra effort into the labour market, and in this way the principles go against it, one might say. But I think we should talk about that across the parties. This is part of an agreement that we in the Radical Left are very pleased with, both the elements we are discussing here and the elements we will deal with later. It is an overall agreement that we are very happy to be a part of, and that is why, of course, this is what we are dealing with and expressing our vote in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503133639	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Enhedslisten, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503133702	The victory is our song protestors in front of the main stairs to the Folketing today. You have been with us all the way since the citizens' proposal was tabled, where you succeeded in collecting over 50,000 votes. You have challenged politicians, made happenings, participated in the debates, helped and challenged the calculations. And that does not say so little when you are up against the accounting machine of the Treasury itself and sometimes completely illogical logics. You have helped with the resolution we tabled in the Enhedslisten earlier along with the Alternative. So it's pretty simple. We wouldn't have been here if it hadn't been for you. So you're right when you sing that victory is ours. Even in the headwind, you stood up for the fundamental principle that we as humans should have the right to good, safe and free life. So I'd like to take this opportunity today to thank you very much. May others who fight for equality, equality, justice, be inspired by you. You must meet with respect and dignity, even when you are affected by illness and when you are affected by unemployment. We should not live in a society where you have to stand with your hat in your hand and go begging and feel the humiliation that is in it. That is not what the welfare society is about. And you succeeded in getting a lot of people to discover some of the great cracks that are in the welfare society. And now we have the opportunity to make it stronger. Because we must have a community that makes each other stronger and ensures that being exposed to an occupational injury or to a social event does not mean that you are completely, indeed, scratching together economically or experiencing a social deroute. And we must ensure that everyone can maintain a dignified standard of living even when you grow old. In that vision, it is quite clear that you should not be made financially dependent on your partner, but instead be made financially independent. Despite the liberation of women, the struggle for the welfare society and the rebellion of others, legislation has been imposed for too many years, so that you simply become financially dependent on your partner. Despite the resolution we tabled earlier; despite the fact that the citizens' proposal was voted down, it seems that soon, when we deal with it in the third reading, we will be moving through some huge milestones and that it will actually go through. Yeah, that's weird. It is just now that we have two proposals today that are going to go through and that are about that area. I still think that is a bit crazy when you look at the ridicule and mockery that we met just a year ago, i.e. that it would never go through. I hope that there will not be christiansborg chips in it, but that we can agree that this should happen and that this should happen as soon as possible. But having said that, I just wanted to say that we haven't got everyone on board. We're not in the finish line. There are some that we need. We are still missing where it is actually called mutual dependents. It comes to the recipients of cash benefits, which has also given rise to a great deal of debate, i.e. spouse offsets, mutual dependants and everything. But mutual commitment is precisely the fact that if you are on a cash benefit and your spouse earns twice as much, then you actually stand and get zero crowns. It's not worthy. Even when we look at it now, we can see that it is not that one's performance is cut; it is that one gets a helping hand that actually makes one gets a job. And you don't get closer to the labour market or make more profits by not being able to get the ends to meet and be left with zero crowns. So we're going all the way. We must bring in the recipients of cash benefits, and I hope that we will succeed in getting this through in the current performance negotiations. But I must also admit that it is clear that, when the Enhedslisten is the only party that can clearly say today that we will abolish mutual dependants for cash benefits recipients and ensure that everyone has an independent economy, then I can be a little concerned. I am happy, however, when I hear that we are, for example. with SF can go a little in the think box and then see if we can make some partial solutions, for any step I think can move very much. So maybe I'm gonna ask for your help again, because we're gonna have to bring everyone with us. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134223	Thank you to the rapporteur. Before I make any brief comments, I would like to remind the rapporteur that debates in Parliament are with the parties and not with the audience. But sometimes it's hard to interrupt a speech where there's juice and power in it. But just a reminder that it is therefore a debate with the parties of the Folketing and not with the listeners. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is first, Mr President. Bent Bøgsted, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134248	Thank you. Before I became a non-attached Member, I was involved in negotiating this, and I am a little surprised that Mrs Victoria Velasquez is actually standing on the floor and commending this proposal that the offsetting of labour income should now be removed, but the Enhedslisten would not be involved in making the agreement. Enhedslisten didn't want to be a part of this deal. It may well be that it was because there was not enough, but if Enhedslisten really wanted it, why did Enhedslisten not say to the government: We want to make the deal here? But the Enhedslisten isn't on the papers. It is a little strange that the rapporteur is standing on the platform and praising this far away. Because I assume the Enhedslisten will vote for the bill. It's just a little weird that we should hear it when we didn't want to be involved in negotiating it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134346	To be honest, I don't think that Mr. Bent Bøgsted thinks that this is strange, because if there is something that the rapporteur and I have talked about many times, that is how we will get rid of mutual dependants. So I think the rapporteur knows very well that this is about the fact that, of course, we do not want to cut the daily allowance. We think that the benefits should be restored and that they should be strengthened and that it is a disgrace that some of those who receive the minimum benefit should be taken away from them. This applies to the newly educated. We do not have the distrust of young people who take an education that they just do it for having to take it off on unemployment benefits. In fact, we believe that people really want to go out and use the education they have taken. I hope now that Mr. Bent Bøgsted has become a non-attached member, that "yes', perhaps the rapporteur, will then vote against the loss of benefit we will be dealing with later today. I don't know. It's gotta be open. But this is precisely about securing the social safety net. So we have about somebody working for this, but of course we are against the loss of benefits that there is in Denmark can more I.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134452	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134454	What the rapporteur says actually confirms me in what Enhedslisten has always said: if you cannot have it all, you will have nothing; then you will not be able to negotiate anything, but you may well vote for something when others have taken responsibility. That's kind of what's left of it. I just think that Mrs Victoria Velasquez should think about the fact that when you do something that is good and that has been well received, and this is really going to be out there, by those who work and are not set off in a spouse's or collector's pension on earned income, you should say that you want to play an active part in negotiating in place, but Mrs Victoria Velasquez has the approach, and that has Enhedslisten that if you cannot get it all, you will have nothing. That is what remains.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134539	This is simply nonsense. We just don't want to take money out of the pockets of some of those who have the very least. With rising energy prices and food prices, I find it totally alarming that the so-called green cheque will be removed from the cash benefits recipients, some of whom are hit the hardest by rising prices. So no, we've made lots of deals where we don't make it all the way. We fight step by step for it to be in the right direction, but that is absolutely right: You can count on Enhedslisten not to take money out of the pocket of some of those who have the very least, and that is also what we stand by today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134610	The next brief remark is to Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134614	Yes, yes, I do think that Enhedslisten may well have serious arguments about how to finance it, but we just have to make it clear that Enhedslisten has none So I like Enhedslisten supporting the proposal and I can easily accept that these are entirely legitimate arguments, but we also have to make that clear, and Mrs Victoria Velasquez must also do so that Enhedslisten no one This is something that came, among other things. because SF is part of the negotiations. It's kind of just a fact. I would like to stick to the discussion I had with Mrs Velasquez earlier. When I think about how high the Enhedslisten really thinks the cash assistance should be, and if you then completely cancel out any kind of set-off or mutual dependants we can call it different things • When is it that you encounter it, that it is not attractive to be a member of an unemployment insurance fund? Isn't that a dilemma that Enhedslisten recognises?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134712	I really hope that the SF will withdraw because the rapporteur knows very well that this is not true. We have been a lot of people who have fought for us to stand here today, and I actually find it a little embarrassing that SF is trying to take all the credit for it itself. The SF didn't even vote for that citizens' proposal when it came. There is someone in this room who actually needs some credit for that being part of the negotiations. After all, we can discuss who is part of the negotiations; I would say that some of those who have been most powerful in the negotiations have actually been some who have not been in the negotiating room but outside the negotiating room. But otherwise, it is actually the Minister who has got his arm on the government and got it into the government proposal. After all, it is not the SF that has brought this onto the negotiating table; it was already there. So to completely neglect everything that has been up to the Minister taking it to the negotiating table, and what made the Minister have the strength to push it through to the government, I think is a little strange. In relation to the second part, we focus on the fact that there is the amount of evidence available, and as the ROCKWOOL Foundation also points out, so that you have the opportunity to live a healthy life, whether you are unemployed or not. This means, of course, that some benefit recipients who have more children can actually receive supplementary cash benefits if that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134830	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134832	I don't need SF to take credit for it. Mrs Victoria Velasquez also heard my rapporteur's speech. I would be happy to share that, at least with the conciliation parties. But the fact that you stand outside a settlement and say that you are responsible for what is going on inside the settlement is simply so advanced that it has no time on earth. I know that Enhedslisten supports it, but you haven't had any influence on this at all. This is something that the conciliation parties have managed and with a good minister in the lead: yes, that is right, but Enhedslisten is not part of the settlement that is now abolishing partner income dependency. But I just think that we must have a common interest in defending the cash system, and that is why it is just that I am asking about that reflection and that dialogue that we should have about the fact that we cannot simply raise cash aid and eliminate any form of dependency without the risk of competing with the cash system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134914	Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134916	Thank you. There is no way that the SF escapes the responsibility: both in the past, when the su'e for young people was hollowed out, and now when you want to hollow out the benefits for young people. So that way, of course, you take responsibility for the agreements you choose to enter into. I am absolutely convinced that now we also have a resolution later today that we could have succeeded in abolishing the principles of mutual dependants without having to take money out of the pockets of some of those who have the very least. There has been massive tax relief given to some of the richest in our society. The funding could have been found in a different way. First Vice-President Thank you!). Okay, we're gonna have to have the second discussion with regard to the daily allowance, but I think that's important, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503134953	Unfortunately, the time has passed, but thank you to Mrs Victoria Velasquez. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135002	Thank you for the floor, President. It is, of course, a question of trying to eliminate the set-off in the old-age pension if your spouse goes out and takes a job of more or less long duration. This is a very sympathetic proposal, which we support very strongly as a starting point. We ourselves have a similar proposal later this day, and in the light of this we shall be following the committee procedure and taking a position on the proposal during it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135035	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135047	Thank you for that, President. The Danish People's Party is also very pleased that the bill is now coming forward. There has been a long debate on the dispute settlement rules. I remember that there has been a debate about them for as long as I have been a member of the Danish Parliament and that there have been e-mails in the mailbox where people have thought that this has been unfair, that is to say that you could be punished because you had your partner who was still away on the labour market. Fortunately, we are getting rid of that now. We are also getting rid of it at a time when the labour force that is out there is actually needed. And you also have to be honest and say: Money has a value, and if you do not have a value in your work because your partner is set off when you live in the same household, then you lose motivation in relation to it. That is why we have to say that the many e-mails and also the citizens' proposals and other things that have been made have, of course, made an impression. And that is why it is a pleasure for the Danish People's Party that we can now stand here with a proposal that takes care of it. I am also a financial rapporteur, and I would like to say that I have tried under changing governments, and I have brought it to various financial law negotiations where it has not succeeded. So today is actually one of those days when you have a policy that comes through and that you have been working on for many years, and we welcome that. Then you have to remember that with this there are of course also some backsides. We'll get to that later. There we also have a proposal on how to finance it. And that is politics; that is priority. And when Enhedslisten stands up here on the platform saying that you are delighted with all the good that is happening, but that you will not take responsibility for it, it is because you will not give priority. When there is something you want, you also have to take the timer with you. And I would like to say from the Danish People's Party: we are doing it with open eyes. We think this matter has been extremely important, and that is why we are also willing to pay the price, in other words to vouch for the funding. Today is a good day for Denmark, but it is also a good day for the families who have been affected by these set-off rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135246	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135251	It is a little sad if the Danish People's Party has gone from those who defend the little man to those who apparently make no impression on them that there are people who cannot pay for their food or cope with the rising energy prices, since you think it's okay to have to remove 500 kroner. from e.g. the recipients of cash benefits or the newly trained persons. But that's how we're so different. I would like to ask whether the Danish People's Party believes that we should go all the way and ensure that the principles of mutual dependants are abolished for cash benefit recipients as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135329	No, actually, we don't. And you have to remember that cash benefits are temporary benefits. You're not supposed to live a life on cash benefits. And then I very much agree with what has been said by the SF in the past that we should not create a competing public system in relation to our cash-box system. The Danish model is incredibly important, and so is the safety system that is in it, which is why you have to take cash benefits as a temporary benefit. That is why it is also important, when you look at these benefits, to say that it is people who have lifelong benefits. It is a national pension, it is an early retirement pension, it is a senior pension. And of course, it makes sense that we're now removing this set-off rule that's been.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135407	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135409	The idea is, of course, that cash aid is temporary and must be the lowest social safety net that grabs you. I think there will be a debate on that later. However, it is a pity that we actually missed the opportunity that was available to restore the daily allowance, so it will only be the 3 months for the most resourceful benefit recipients in this agreement Denmark can do more. Because we cannot avoid the need for a recovery of the daily allowance. In relation to my first question, why is it that you do not want to do so? For the rapporteur believes that cash aid recipients are getting closer to the labour market by having 0 DKK, or why is it that the rapporteur thinks it is a good idea that this principle applies when you are on cash aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135446	First of all, in relation to the allowance, I would like to say that you should remember that if you get the high rate, you come from full employment and have been doing so for a long time. So I would venture to claim that all those who come on unemployment benefit day one are strong employees • people who have been in full employment for a long period of time, otherwise they would not have earned the right to be on unemployment benefit. So they're really strong all of them. Then it is important that we have a system that also ensures that you get back out. But what is most important is that you join, so that you have both the insurance, but also the strength, in relation to the Danish model having the value that it has. And I would like to say again that cash benefits are a temporary benefit that you are on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135526	Thank you, sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135534	Thank you, President. It is said that a victory has many fathers, and I think this debate is very marked by the fact that it has now gone through, and then everyone would like to say: we have made sure that it gets through and so on. I just think we can say that nothing happened to this until New Citizens came to Parliament. Then we've gotten involved in it, too. In a more serious way, I think it's really nice that this is changed. It has been New Citizen's policy ever since we were founded that one should remove spouse opposites. That's why we think it's great that this happens. We're not in that deal, the big deal. There were some other things that we did not agree with, but that is why we can easily acknowledge it and think this is right. I don't think anyone is in any doubt that both my attitude and that of New Citizen is that this system was now being changed, but had been misappointed. You would never have set up a system that would make it difficult for people to be together as couples and find love. I think that is what I am really glad to see you do away with today. You simply create better opportunities for couples to stay together, but you also create better opportunities for people who are on these services to go out and find love. And if there's anything we need today in our society, it's a little more love. So that way, we're really, really happy about what this bill contains. Then there's also an element in the bill... it hasn't been focused on about the early retirement, where you'll be saving it for 3 years. There I have some questions in committee for the cut of about DKK 220,000 which must be earned every year and still retained early retirement. Immediately, earning $20,000 is a high amount. and then still be on a performance, so we have some questions for that which need to be clarified.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135754	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135802	Thank you. This bill contains two elements. One is about removing the partner offset for early retirement, old-age pensions and senior pensions. It can be found in a motion for a resolution which will come later, which we have helped to table and which we are therefore voting in favour of. In this draft law, however, there is another element that is about being able to work a great deal as an early-retirer and earn a great deal of money without the municipalities being able to deny this early-retirement worker their early-retirement pension. In other words, even if the early-retirement worker has a considerable capacity for work, the person must nevertheless continue to receive early-retirement benefits without being dismissed by the municipality, and we are not in favour of that, so we end up voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135914	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, outside the groups. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503135931	Thank you for that, President. This agreement is, of course, one that I myself have helped to put in place, and I am only glad that it has succeeded. It has taken a long time, but with this it has been possible to get into place, that there should be no set-off in the old-age pension, early retirement pension or senior pension if you have a spouse or partner who is in the labour market. Then labour income should not be set off, and that is only a major step in the right direction towards removing much of the set-off that lies there. It was supposed to happen a long time ago, but now it's gonna work out. There is then an element that is not included, which was also included in the agreement. It was precisely the offsetting of labour income in own pension, but I hope the Minister can just explain when that bill will come. I think it will only come to the next session, but I hope that the Minister will be able to explain, when the Minister comes to the floor, how it is connected, because it is also part of the agreement that lies, and we very much appreciate that. After all, I am no longer representing my former party, as I did when I was involved in negotiating it in place, but a small non-attached group of six seats. That's a little bit of weight, too. There is myself, and then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby, Mrs Lise Bech and Mrs Marie Krarup. With six mandates, we support this proposal and we look forward to the forthcoming examination of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503140123	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There is no wish for short remarks to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, and so I can give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503140138	Thank you very much for the floor and also very much for the many remarks that have been made. Less than four months ago, the government concluded a broad and ambitious agreement with the SF, the Radical Left, the Danish People's Party, the Christian Democrats and now also later supported by the working community, today represented by Mr. Bent Bøgsted here in the hall. It's a deal that, among other things, is... should make it more attractive for seniors to work and, at the same time, have the advantage that it does not affect the non-working spouse. Today, of course, we are so ready to take another step to make the agreement a reality so that it can benefit the many pensioners and their partners. The bill is about abolishing set-off in social pension when a spouse or partner works. With the proposal, as many have said today, we are removing, with both support and happiness, the rules that today mean that pensioners are financially penalised if their spouse or partner works. This is a proposal which approx. 100,000 old-age pensioners, early retirement pensioners and senior pensioners can benefit from this. That's really, really positive. That is why, of course, we also expect more seniors and pensioners to choose to continue working because it will no longer affect the partner's pension. This is very positive, especially at a time of shortage of labour. In this respect, I also think that the history of this proposal, which has been so debated over a number of years, contains a very beautiful and very positive story about the state of our democracy. A great deal has been said about this in the past, but it is also true that this is true, among other things. is a citizens' group which, over a relatively short period of time, has helped to promote this issue, so there is political support today. An agreement has been negotiated and made for which funding has been found and which we have the first reading today. This would not, of course, have happened without Parliament's parties' will and ability to prioritise, but it nevertheless contains the beautiful and positive tale of the state of our democracy. Later today we will be dealing with two motions for resolutions which contain almost identical proposals for offsetting such as this one. Both resolutions have been tabled by the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil and Liberal Alliance, and I am pleased that the parties on both sides of the House want to make a difference to seniors in the labour market. That is what it is all about: making a real difference to seniors in the labour market and to their spouses or couples. It should not be about christiansborgfnids, and which party comes first above the finish line. I think we should push the tricks aside. I see the motions for resolutions as expressing our basic desire to achieve the same result. So let us now jointly adopt the new rules that can help a lot of pensioners. Soon, too, to answer Mr. Bent Bøgsted's question will also be submitted by the Government to a draft law on the abolition of social security contributions due to the pensioner's own income from work. It follows from the same political agreement. It is a proposal which means that pensioners can work even more than they can today without being set off against the basic amount of the pension and the pension supplement. The proposal is estimated to come about. Fifty thousand people's pensionists. So let us now stand together in the Folketing; we clearly agree on the changes. With today's bill, we will also ensure early retirement from early retirement for a 3-year period. This means that people on early retirement can try harder with employment without having to worry about having their pension withdrawn. I believe that the proposal provides us with very good conditions for pensioners who can and will to give an extra hand in the labour market. In addition, the draft law proposes that future beneficiaries of early pensions and senior pensions should be included in the less intensive employment effort scheme. In other words, they are treated in the same way as future old-age pensioners, who also meet fewer demands in the last six weeks before retirement. In conclusion, I would just like to thank the parties once again for the good way in which the draft law has been dealt with, which I think has been the expression of today's debate, and I am, of course, looking forward to the committee's consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503140624	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503140629	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech and also for recognising that movement creates changes in our society and can help to move an entire Parliament. In fact, I thought it was very strong that the Minister acknowledged and signed for it. I also hope that we can agree to stop the reduction and erosion of the old-age pension and early retirement pension, as we see, because these are also some of the problems that we are looking at and which also require a clean-up. In his speech, the Minister said that an early retirement worker was financially penalised, but there are still some early retirement workers who will remain, for example. if they are married to a person on cash benefits, then they are affected by the dependent and then the cash benefit recipient gets 0 DKK, and the early retirement pensionist, despite lower early retirement, has to provide for that spouse. What is the Minister thinking about this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503140726	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503140728	I would like to start by saying that we are open to discussing all issues. However, I also think that Mr. Karsten Hønge in her correspondence with Mrs Victoria Velasquez had some good arguments and also, I think, some very, very relevant attention points. Basically, if you are and are available for the labour market, which you do when you are part of the lower safety net, as opposed to, for example, if you get a national pension or one of the other pension benefits awarded, then it must also be attractive to insure yourself against unemployment. And there you just have to keep your tongue straight in your mouth so that you do not upset some balance which means that, for example, the recipients of cash benefits do not have the incentive to insure themselves against unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503140831	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503140832	But it's a dangerous ending, and it's something that's started in here from Christiansborg. Unbelievably few on daily benefits receive 90%. of their previous income at the benefit rate, because the maximum payment of the daily allowance has continued to be reduced. And if you have to follow that logic to the end, it will be the case if the benefits are to remain hollowed out, that there will then also be a erosion in relation to the lowest social safety net. It is extremely dangerous to go that way, because it means that we are moving away from ensuring that everyone has some kind of fair standard of living. Don't the Minister see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503140906	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503140907	We clearly believe that everyone needs to be guaranteed some kind of minimum standard of living, but I would also just like to correct: there are not a few Danes on the labour market; this is about • I think, too, Mr President. René Christensen said it before. Later today, when we deal with the proposal to make a supplement to the daily allowance for these just over DKr 3,500, it will strengthen the safety net for more than one million Danish employees who have earned the right to what has qualified for it through permanent links with the labour market and the cashier.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503140946	The next brief remark is to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503140948	I just wanted to thank the Minister for including the last proposal. Because it was a proposal that I, together with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party worked hard to get through, i.e. that exactly the set-off in his own pension came with, and I understand that it can all come into effect at the same time as this one on January 1, 2023, so we appreciate it very much. We just think it should have been in by now. I would just like to take this opportunity to hear from the Minister whether the Minister is perhaps prepared at the same time to see whether he can be allowed to work a little more alongside him. For those who are on early retirement, you're gonna have to make 24,000 kroner. without any set-off, and there you could also allow pre-retirers to have something without any set-off. I just want to hear the Minister's opinion on this and whether it was an opportunity we could agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141040	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141042	First of all, perhaps I would also just like to elaborate on the legislative proposal that will be put forward in the next session about the offsetting of own income, and this is basically because we are giving Payout Denmark time to make the necessary system changes. When we then put forward the bill, it will come into force on 1 January 2024, but it will apply retroactively to pensioners from 1 January 2023, so that it will have the effect that has also been agreed with, among other things. Mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141123	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141125	Yeah, that's fine. The Minister then did not reply to the question of pensioners and whether there was an opportunity to accommodate them. It is, after all, a question of labour supply, of getting some more people to work. We have also heard that there are many places, among others. In the health sector, where they demand that pensioners be allowed to do something more without any set-off. Was the Minister also prepared to look at this problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141152	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141154	It is clear that we are generally listening to the many proposals there are. I think that what we have to remember is that the set-off rules in the early retirement scheme, which I also think the government thought were being made too hard at the time when the reform of the early retirement scheme was being carried out in 2010/2011, follows a different set of rules than this one, and that they have some other logics. It is also true that we are currently considering whether, in the current situation, in the light of the Ukraine crisis, some of the rules must be relaxed, both in terms of early retirement and in terms of other pension benefits, so that people can work for a few hours. And we will take that into account in the discussions that will take place later this week.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141235	Thank you. The next brief remark is to Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141239	That is because I wondered a little about the Minister's logic that the benefits had to be eroded because the benefits were eroded and thus ensured that there was no wrong balance. But that cannot be the case with early retirement. Can it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141254	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141255	I do not think I have made myself a spokesperson for a logic that one had to erode one or the other. I believe that I basically have the view that we have to keep our tongues straight in our mouths when we talk about spouse offsets in the case of cash benefits recipients and other pension recipients. For basically, it is the case that people who are on cash benefits are on our lower safety net because, in the end, they cannot find a job. I think it is important that it is also something that goes on in the difficult discussions that our two parties have with each other around the benefit system in general that there is a financial gain from being in work, and it is also important that there is a necessary incentive to insure themselves against unemployment in an unemployment fund. And these balances have to be kept in mind when we discuss these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141342	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141344	Yes, but that balance is not guaranteed in a couple where one is a cash benefit recipient and the other is an early retirement pensionist. So the problem is that people have very different approaches to this. But could the Minister perhaps consider thinking in some ways instead of a mutual dependent who said that one would set off for common housekeeping and such things, so that one did away with addiction, but realized that there is of course an advantage in living two in one home?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141416	At any rate, I think it is quite crucial that we recognise that there is a difference between being outside the labour market because you are missing a job or because you are on a pension allowance awarded, whether it is because you are too sick to work or because you have crossed the retirement age, and then, of course, we have to discuss whether adjustments can be made and so on. We are always open to ideas, but I cannot, on the basis of the facts, make any assumptions as to what costs and consequences it may have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141452	Thank you to the Minister for Employment. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141507	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr Seligman. Henrik Møller. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503141528	Thank you for that, President. As I mentioned before, the economy looks good, it is strong • the Danish labour market model is strong. With 2 years of pandemic, the foundation stone of our labour market model has shown its importance and strength, and although our labour market is well prepared for the future, of course we also meet with rapid changes. The green transition, technological development and globalisation change the needs of companies and make new demands on the skills of the workforce, and therefore we also need to invest in the labour market of the future. We must strengthen the cohesion of the Danish model and create a stronger organised labour market. We must encourage graduates to get more quickly into jobs and we must invest in our unemployment benefit system. A number of parties in the Folketing have taken responsibility for this with agreement on the reform package for the Danish economy, which we entered back earlier in January. The bill that we have to deal with now is about investing in the labour market of the future by strengthening the cohesion of the Danish labour market model. The Danish benefit system is an important leg in the Danish flexicurity model, where companies can hire and fire conditional on the safety and safety of employees in the event of unemployment. Our benefit system is a collective and solidarity insurance scheme, which the majority of the workforce support. It is also a crucial part of the Danish model • something that we must guard against, fighting for if we want to preserve the way in which the labour market is organised. However, a solidarity insurance scheme only works as intended if there is support for it among the Danes, and therefore it is also worrying that over the last few years there has been a sharp increase in the number of Danes who take out private wage insurance, either as a supplement to the daily allowance or also completely outside the benefit system. Therefore, together with the contracting parties behind the agreement, we agreed to invest in the benefits without compromising that there must still be a clear benefit from taking up work. We therefore proposed to increase the maximum daily allowance rate by DKK 3.649. a month, and this means that you will be able to receive up to 23,000 kroner. a month. I think it is important to emphasise that it is never more than 90%. This is why we are maintaining the individual calculation of the daily allowance rate. We are also only increasing the maximum daily allowance rate for the first three months of the unemployment period, and therefore our investment is also targeted at those who, for a short time, are between two jobs, who have been and have contributed to the collective scheme for several years and who have had a permanent link with the labour market. We strengthen the security and security of the individual employee. However, it can be said that the benefit system is also challenged by the fact that a growing proportion of the benefit recipients is made up of newly trained graduates. persons who have not necessarily paid and contributed to unemployment insurance. In other words, there are some special favourable conditions for newly trained graduates in the benefit system, conditions to which no one else in the workforce has access. We also see a growing proportion of graduates in the benefit system. One out of every four persons receiving benefit has been retrained. In 2019 it was so that 40%. of newly trained people started their working life with a period of unemployment benefit. It is a little bit about cohesion and justice, and at a time when companies lack hands, I think it is only fair that we also ask the newly educated to contribute more. That is why it is proposed to reduce the graduation rate to look more like the Su rate. In addition, it is proposed to reduce the benefit period for graduates from 2 to 1 year. Summing up, it can be said that the draft law here aims to restore the balance and fairness of our benefit system. This is important if, in future, we are also to have a strong benefit system that keeps hands on employees and ensures the ability of companies to act flexibly and in line with cyclical fluctuations. That is wise and, of course, we in the Socialist Group can support it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142002	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments to be made to the rapporteur, first from Mrs Jette Gottlieb, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142010	I would like to ask about the very behavioural-regulating effect that should have taken the money from the graduates. The reason I'm asking is that STAR came up with their report on the last reduction in the graduating rate yesterday, and it says very precisely, and I quote from their summary:... the observed effect cannot be interpreted as a reform effect (i.e. cannot be interpreted as an isolated effect of the lower graduation rate)....... I find that somewhat remarkable. And then I also find it remarkable that they refer to that the theory behind it is a report on search behavior from 1977. It reminds me a little bit of dumping sludge on the basis of an American report.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142058	Yeah, I don't know if I'll necessarily comment on the last part there. No, I thought in my speech I was somehow trying to explain, to say that there has to be a connection in this benefit system that we have. There we can see that for some of these people who have been on the labour market, there has been one, I do not know if it can be called the erosion of the level of coverage that has been there. That's where we put it compared to the three months. There we say that these are some of the newly educated people who can also be said that the prerequisites right now for actually getting out and working are good. Many of these graduates are, after all, some of those who have the best educational qualifications in order to enter the labour market. They help to ensure, you might say, this connection in the benefit system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142143	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142144	Then you can wonder anyway, because all statistics show that they are going to work. They're a little bit longer on it, and it is, among other things. Because they're inexperienced. And a lot of employers use as an argument not to hire them, that they are inexperienced, but how do you get experienced if you don't get hired? So there is no logic in saying that graduates do not get jobs. They'll get it. As soon as they have been in the system for a while, the unemployment rate is not higher among graduates than among others. So I do not really understand anything but that the logic is that it is smartest and easiest to take away from those who, by the way, are going to fall in wages for many because they lose all the benefits they have had as a student.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142227	I think somewhere in this is also a signal, you might say, to speed up the process. I agree that you are not only dependent on that, but I also think that the signal is given that while you are in education before you become a graduate, we are reasonably clear in the requirements and framework by saying: there is a year here where the opportunity is available, and that means that there is an incentive here to at least be a little faster.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142253	The next brief remark is from Mr. Bent Bøgsted, outside the groups. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142257	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Henrik Møller. Sir. Henrik Møller has mentioned it a little, but for the record, I must have Mr. Henrik Møller to confirm that there have been some misunderstandings among apprentices and graduates from universities that this reduction does not apply to the skilled workers who have been paid during the training and it does not apply to university graduates who have had a job alongside where they can prove that they have had income and employment. This bill does not apply to them if they have had enough income and employment alongside training. And for all skilled workers who are paid during training, this does not apply here, even though they are also called graduates. - Sir... Henrik Møller confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142350	I would like to thank Mr. Bent Bøgsted, because I can confirm it and say it is correct. I also think it is essential that, during the periods before graduating, it is possible to earn rights that will allow you to have longer and better coverage in relation to the benefit period. So, yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142411	The next brief remark is from Mrs Victoria Velasquez, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142415	Thank you. In fact, I do not quite understand the strategy of the Social Democratic Party when, right now, you are embezzling the arguments and pretending that this has suddenly become the same policy. Well, what is it a year ago or something that we stood side by side and even the minister refused to attack young people's benefits like this? I think we should be honest and say that we do not have a majority alone; this is something that has been necessary for our parliamentary basis. In other words, it is a serious matter to cut benefits, but another thing that the Social Democrats are doing here is to shorten the period during which young people can spend on unemployment benefits. What will the Social Democratic Party do if the bourgeoisie is suddenly inspired after an election and then wants to shorten the period for all benefit recipients? So, are you going to stand back completely contradictory and say: well, but it is only the young people who have to speed up the process because it is not working for adults in this way, and the business cycle is going up and down? But don't they do that for young people too? Yes or no or not? I mean, it really gets confusing for people to understand what the Social Democrats' policy in the area of unemployment benefits is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142520	I don't quite buy the premise. I think it's a little like comparing apples with pears. So here we are talking about people who are newly educated, who have not been in employment and who have not been in a benefit system. They are compared to those who have had to be in employment before and, moreover, have been insured for a long time in connection with this. So I simply do not think we can compare these two things. And then I just want to say that I neither hope nor believe that we will have a bourgeois government next time. So for me, that is a hypothetical question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142550	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142551	I sure as hell don't hope for the last part either. Anyway, I'm just thinking that's one of the things that doesn't get young people to work fast. Many of them are trained at the same time; there are bottlenecks, it is not the case that all employers are looking for some exactly the same place. Then it takes some time, and some of what more people are told when they don't get a job, is that they, for example, get a job. lack of experience. Then the counter-argument could just be: well, those who have been on the labour market for a long time have experience. We know that something that really affects employment is a business environment. Why is it that the Social Democratic Party here is moving away from ensuring, of course, an economic basis and a financial security? And I just don't understand why young people have to suffer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142630	Well, I actually think that's what we're doing in relation to the three-month extra allowance that is for this group of people who are in the labour market and who hopefully only have a shorter period of unemployment. In fact, this ensures that there is proper coverage; we ensure that it is worthwhile for people to be in an unemployment insurance fund in relation to this principle of solidarity. And again, in relation to the graduates, we are talking about some who have not yet been on the labour market, but who hopefully very quickly can get out there and earn these rights and then become part of the new improvements we are making.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142702	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142705	It is because the rapporteur said something about the Danish economy being well and that we are looking into a good time for the Danish economy. When you look at the economic statement by the government itself, you can see that it talks about a bnp growth in 2024 at 1%. and a growth in bnp in 2025 of 0.8%. We are talking about employment which is stagnant or perhaps even slightly declining. Is that what the rapporteur would call good figures for the Danish economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142739	Right now, I am starting from the reality, and the reality is that we are being attacked from all sides, you might say, in relation to the lack of labour, and there is also something that indicates it is forward-looking. In other words, some of the forecasts that we have seen are that we in society are going to lack skilled labour, so I think that despite the analyses on the future prospects, we still have some challenges where we have to ensure that there is enough labour in itself. Then it may be that the forecasts, as Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen describes here, can take the tip of some of it, but it's not something that solves these problems or in any way will create a situation where we're going to stand very, very badly with Danish glasses.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142829	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142831	No, and I am also surprised when we agree that we are going to lack labour, that we are not really addressing it to a much greater extent. This Denmark can do more... reform by no means achieves it. Well, the Social Democratic Mayor of Aarhus, Mr. Jacob Bundsgaard, himself said that it is about 30,000 who will be missing, and you are nowhere near finding that. So the question is: what is it that the government is going to do in the future? We are looking into some economic key figures and I do not agree that it looks as good for the Danish economy as the rapporteur thinks, but at the same time they say that there is a shortage of labour. What's the government's answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142913	I simply have to say that I think it is somewhat contradictory with the various arguments that come from Mr Beazley. Lars Boje Mathiesen side of. I think that when you look at the labour supply discussion in relation to Denmark, we can take a step in the right direction in order to try to ensure that there is actually a slightly larger supply of work that might meet some of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142939	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503142942	Thank you. The rapporteur concludes by saying: a slightly larger supply of labour. Yeah, well, the government started pulling 10,000 out of the labour market at the early retirement age, and now a little is being added. But we are left in the same place, in other words in a situation where we can look forward to and look into the fact that there is a shortage of labour now, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and as long as we can even look forward. And then you make an agreement here which, if you just look at the benefits, means that there are now people who have to get up, go to work and experience that there are people who get more in cash than you earn. Does the rapporteur think that is fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143027	It is simply a notorious nonsense that you can get more on cash benefits than you can earn on the job you have. We're just saying that with this solution you can't get more than 90 percent. of the previous salary that has been paid. So there will never be anyone who can walk away from a job and on unemployment benefit and get more paid than they got when they were in a wage job. So that is simply not true.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143053	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143055	But that's not what I asked either. I asked if it is true that, for example, there is a problem. are shop employees who now have to see that you have to serve people who come in and who are on daily allowances for 23,000 DKK, while they themselves may get 22,500 DKK. That is what I asked whether the rapporteur considers reasonable at a time when we need more people to take a job and that fewer people find it attractive to be on unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143122	I think we have a turnover of hundreds of thousands of people changing jobs in a year. I think it is important to stress that this is something that applies to a three-month period. It will be some people who no matter what will go 90 percent. Down in pay. This means that they will receive a significantly lower benefit than when they were at work. Then it may well be that in relation to a few jobs in a 3-month period we get more. What's just the matter with many of these low-wage jobs is that, after three months, they're already increasing. There's a pension built into it. So I don't necessarily buy the premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143201	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143205	If we do not agree, the rapporteur and I, that the minimum wage in the shop sector is DKK 20,190. for an unskilled shop employee?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143218	A shop employee who gets a little more than 20,000 will not be able to get more than 90 per cent when the person goes on unemployment benefits. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143233	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143234	But we are also in a situation where shop life lacks a great many employees. And here the government then removes the incentive for people to go out and take a temporary job in a store and thus could help the Danish business community instead of sitting at home.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143249	This is such a bit of speculation in relation to the fact that you now choose the allowance, because you can get 23,000, where you go down in relation to the wage level you had, and then you lose the motivation to take a job as cashier somewhere for three months, because the allowance is at a level where you have actually fallen in benefit. I just don't believe it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143313	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Henrik Møller. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143320	Thank you. Thanks to responsible reforms, the Danish economy today stands strong, in fact so strong, that many companies around Denmark are crying for more labour. Among other things: a recruitment survey from STAR shows that there have been 158,000 job vacancies in vain in the past year. This is equivalent to that one in three listings is in vain, just like that 40%. of Danish companies consider labour shortages to be the biggest growth challenge. That is why, as a Parliament, we have a responsibility to ensure that companies have the opportunity to recruit the workforce that is needed, otherwise we will all lose out on growth, which ultimately goes beyond the prosperity and therefore also the welfare that we are all concerned with. After all, this bill contains various points. In the Left, we agree that it is a good idea to reduce both the amount and the time limit for the graduation rate, as a reduction will mean that more graduates will achieve employment more quickly, and that is what is needed. However, when we cannot agree to this bill as it stands, it is because the proposal also contains a sharp increase in the rate of unemployment benefit through the so-called employment allowance, when it comes to higher unemployment benefits; one can consider the rhetoric in that regard. When introduced, it will mean that 140,000 Danes earn less than the new rate of DKK 23,000. It is not fair that, for example, we should be able to do something about it. A shopkeeper or a cleaning assistant can now look forward to earning less than what you can get by being on a daily allowance. First of all, it is the wrong way to go to make it less attractive to work and thus lower employment. It is also unfair to the 140,000 Danes who stand up every morning to go to work. The Left believes that it should pay more to work. That is why the Left is voting against this bill. Instead, we will refer to the motion for a resolution that we will be dealing with a little later today, which the Left has tabled together with the Liberal Alliance, the New Civil and Conservatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143540	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143544	First of all, thank you for that. I cannot quite find out whether it is something that can work from a platform, or whether the Left does not actually know when people are getting paid in agreements when you make that reference. So I'm just gonna ask, how long does it take you to start at HK's minimum wage until you get a raise?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143609	I think that's very individual, and I don't know HK's agreement to the fingertips. But guaranteed, it is not something that takes a very long time, and I believe that there are also many who achieve relatively rapid wage increases, but that depends on the individual, and I would like to do so. But it does not change the fact that the challenge here is that there are people who will be employed on the agreement, who will have to see that there are others who get more in the daily allowance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143639	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143640	When the rapporteur refers to those figures, I really think we should be honest about it, because the other is completely misleading. It will take three months and then you will increase your salary, and that is why it is absolutely wrong to distort the debate when you continue to refer to a wage rate that so few people in our society have. Then you can also turn the numbers a little by putting some people who are part-time employees or others and trying to wrap it up that way. But when we actually look at what it is like for those who are on integration benefits, we see that their average hourly wage for first work is over DKK 150, and I think that it distorts the debate when you say those figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143720	But that doesn't change the fact that there are 140,000 Danes earning less than DKK 23,000. in a month, and we do not think it appropriate at a time when we are going to have people in jobs, that we have a situation where you can experience that when you serve people in a store, you serve people who are on unemployment benefits who get more in cash than you get in pay. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143745	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143747	I was aware that the rapporteur said that it was very sensible and important to reduce the graduation period from two years to one year, to halve it. But how does it rhyme with the general knowledge we have that, if I may say so, it obviously takes a little longer for a newly trained person to get a job because they are often rejected on the basis of lack of experience? Isn't there a contradiction between the two movements?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143815	Again: I think this is a matter of fairness. We do not think you should be able to complete your studies and then experience that your performance actually increases quite strongly. With this proposal, we find a sensible rent. We have proposed it by the Left themselves this summer, which means that there is a strong incentive to get out and find a job. And yes, for some it takes longer than it averages for the unemployed, but they also have a whole year now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143851	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143852	But I think that the rapporteur is aware that most people who finish an education are in a situation where they lose both a su, they lose a residence because they have lived in a dormitory room or in an apprenticeship home or something like that they lose the discounts you get on transport and all these things. And for a fairly large group, the transition to the rate of graduation now proposed means a decrease in relation to the situation in which they were in when they were in su. Isn't it tempting to be an eternity student?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143929	I certainly hope not. And what we can just see is that there's a job to get out there. It is true that it may not be the dream job you get in the first place, but then you have to take one of the other available jobs and then move towards the dream job. I think it is quite reasonable that we should change the degree rate, both in relation to the period and the amount, and ensure that there is more fairness in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503143954	There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it is the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party, Mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144003	For the first time in many, many years, we are lifting the daily allowance, and we are doing it with an amount that can be felt. 3,649 kr. more a month makes a difference in a small modest economy that the unemployed have. Yes, it is only for three months, and yes, it is only for people with stable links to the labour market. But it is also precisely the people who can be expected to have set the economy in line with a wage income. The higher daily allowance will take away some of the fear when there are firing rounds in the air. For even today, there are many who are afraid that the pay slip will be replaced by an allowance card. The fear and insecurity we make a little less with the higher daily allowance. Developments must be reversed, because in 2025 the daily allowance will be 44 per cent. of the average wage of an industrial worker in which they covered 63 per cent in 1980. At the same time, the period of benefit has been shortened, profits have been made more difficult and the tax value of the deduction has deteriorated. When unemployment benefits become too poor, the question arises: Why buy bad insurance? At some point, we run the risk of people opting out of the A-boxes. Because if there is not a fair exchange ratio between the quota and the degree of insurance, then it is not worth being a member. And there will then be more offers of personal pay insurance. But we must not outsource or privatise security. We play with matches in front of a flammable material and risk burning down part of Denmark's famous and successful model for the labour market. It is precisely through security that we will have a flexible, efficient, dynamic and robust labour market, which is the goose that lays the golden eggs to the welfare society. That's why we need to raise the daily allowance. The other part of the bill I'm not so fond of, but it's part of an overall agreement. To shave the daily allowance with approx. 4,000 kroner. I thought I had a fragile premise on the month for graduates, and the consequences are different from those of the graduates. We simply run the risk that the bill for society will be too high. But for SF it was important to free the first 3 months, so that the new graduates can be maintained at the level of unemployment benefit they have today, and then they get a period of intense job search. In fact, I would argue that without the SF in the settlement it would have ended much worse compared to the graduates. But what is a reasonable level of unemployment benefit for graduates? So there are several elements in such a debate, and it is not only fair to compare it with the former Su-income of students. In the real world it is not only the distance between su and unemployment benefit that is relevant, because most students have a student job, a great many take student loans, and we also have to take into account the possibilities for dorms and study discounts. The alleged gains for society risk running into the sand, because there is a great risk that the newly educated will not join the A-boxes, which is one of the cornerstones of our labour market. Having an insurance system through the cashiers could weaken us. Newly trained people are an important source of food for the insurance system, and so it could have negative consequences for society if it dries out. The claim that the high daily allowance means that young people do not seek a job is undocumented. I also think that anyone with their head in mind can see that there is a great gap between the already lower daily allowance for graduates and wages in the labour market. The claim that the high daily allowance means that young people do not seek a job is undocumented. The SF will keep this area under the magnification. SF will actively analyse and evaluate the consequences of the law in the future. If we are right in saying that it hits access to the cashiers and if it turns out that the law does not have the alleged positive consequences for young people's entry into the labour market, then we will take the lead in re-engaging the debate. But let's see. Of course, we can be wrong. It may be that the government's calculations are correct. Of course, we reserve the right to become wiser.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144453	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144456	I would just like to ask whether the SF is satisfied that an action such as the three months at higher rates actually sets a fairly large gap between the unemployed. It is a system which has so far been based on a principle of solidarity whereby everyone paid in and those who were unlucky to become unemployed were the ones who then received the benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144519	Yes, and it is actually an old SF proposal that has now been taken up today. In other words, we proposed several years ago that a stair model of this kind should be created, because when you are faced with fear of getting the allowance note and getting an allowance card instead of the pay slip, it is especially at the beginning that many people become insecure; you have to have a period of time to adjust your economy. So I think it is a good idea for us to take away something of the fear, by having a higher rate of unemployment benefit in the first few months, which is, of course, solidarity in that it applies to those people who, in order to be able to have it, have had a fairly stable link with the labour market. In fact, we think it is a good idea, which we have argued for ourselves long before this bill was tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144600	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144602	I am actually fully aware of that, but I think the rapporteur overlooks the fact that there is a huge difference in the way people are employed. I am now aware that the rapporteur has an experience from the construction industry and knows that there you are then fired at today's notice, whereas as an employee you have 3-12 months to get used to the idea that you have been fired. This is precisely the distinction that is now being made, which means that the benefit system will have some other imbalances than it has had in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144632	I find it difficult to see how a clear improvement for a number of employees, in fact, especially those who may be at risk of getting in and out of jobs, is exactly the kind of people this bill will help, because then they won't have to be so afraid of it and the very fact that helping some people should make it unsolidarous to others. That would then lead to us taking this money and smearing it thinly on everyone who could hardly feel it, but 3.649 kr. can actually be felt and contribute to the fact that you are not quite so afraid the day you hear that people are going to be fired.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144705	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144707	Thank you. I would like to ask whether SF is not concerned about the consequences it has for young people, and I am also thinking of the minor regulation from the tax reform that SF made in 2012, which means that the su has been eroded by over 400 DKK. every month. This means that a great many students have to work more and more and cannot focus on immersing themselves in their studies, and as has been pointed out here today, you may be able to earn the right to the right allowance by working a lot while studying, or to speed up the process so that you start the job search while you are at your final exams. It is the same youth who has been really pressured during the Corona crisis, where we saw that the prosperity was not good; a youth who sees that the prospects for the future they have are inferior to those of their parents' generation. I'd like to hear SF's thoughts on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144807	We are very concerned about freeing young people from these, what can you say, savings that have been made. But I would say that, compared to jumping on the one that says that if young people are miserable, they must have more money, then I find it hard to believe that that is where it necessarily lies. So the fact that with higher unemployment benefits less, I find it hard to believe. 'Cause kids aren't just young. Now I want to make it clear again that I have just done it in the rapporteur's speech that we think this is a really bad idea. However, it has to be said that young people who have completed higher education are far better off than other young people who have not taken the course. And those who haven't taken this education have to be a member of an insurance fund for a whole year and deliver a whole year's working hours before they can get cash benefits. So whether or not we reduce the daily allowance rate, they are far better off than other young people, much better. So I guess that's hardly the cause of the misfortune. And the fact that they are worse off than their parents is not right either. In other words, this is a system which is totally sovereign. It is not seen anywhere else in the world that young people without work experience are given access to an insurance system. It does not change the fact that we think this is a bad idea, but just before Mrs Velasquez does it quite awful, I would say that in relation to other young people it is still a completely sovereign regime that we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144923	Then it's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503144925	I hope that SF recognises that when you do not thrive, there are several things that are involved, and having a bad economy, so having little money is also involved, in relation to whether you care. So, research shows that it creates problems, in relation to how far forward one can think, and all sorts of other things. It is not good not to have a proper economy; it helps to distrust. So of course it matters whether people can pay their bills or not. With this deal, the amount of availability will be lower after you've finished studying. You have to be honest about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145003	Yes, yes, it is quite obvious that of course the economy is of great importance to these young people too. That is quite obvious; it is so obvious that I hardly have to say that. I'm just saying that I would warn against thinking that by raising the daily allowance, the misfortune will be removed. There was just a jump action where I thought it was going a little too fast. But it is quite clear that it has a meaning. Then it is just that I am saying that in this bill there is also a significant increase in unemployment benefits, in other words in relation to other young people. These young people, we have to assume, are some of the most resourceful we have in society at all. They have been able to complete higher education. They are given a sovereign offer, whereas the other young people who are actually unskilled must have been members for a year and pay a quota one year, which will be much harder to live up to than what these very resourceful young people are going to have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145047	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145050	Thank you. In connection with the reduction of the graduation rate and the benefit period, I just need to know whether or not Mr. Karsten Hønge can confirm that the cashiers have a great responsibility for the first 3 months to actively go in and help get the newly trained in jobs as in the rest of the unemployment benefit area. We have this cashier's attempt... it's not quite common, but still away, the cashier has a big responsibility to be helpful in finding a job for the new graduates. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145130	Yes, and fortunately it is the case that the various cashiers and trade unions are doing all sorts of activities for the students in the last few days while they go to university. In other words, they are offered to come to all sorts of open house events and places where you may have the opportunity to present your CV to employers. So these cashiers and trade unions know I'm all over the place because they know how important it is to combine young people with potential employers. So it's something that's already going on. And it is certain that even more will be done of that. Because now you know that you get 3 months on this rate, but then there's a cliff, and that's why it's important to move and also start looking for work before you get your exam. Many young students already do. So it may not be exactly the day you have to go to the exam, you have to go in and apply for a job, but there are a lot of students who, months before they go up to the final exams, start by putting in tickets with different companies, provided they have passed the exams. And I think we'll just see more of that. And that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145233	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. And then it's Samira Nawa from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145241	Thank you very much. The draft law L 173, which we are discussing today, is another legislative proposal arising from the reform agreement that we in the Radical Left were included in together with the Social Democracy, the SF, the Danish People's Party and the Christian Democrats, and the bill here contains several elements. One is that the graduation rate is reduced, and I would like to say that in the Radical Left, together with the SF, we fought very hard to ensure that the first three months of the graduation rate were not to be touched, that it should be maintained. This was extremely important to us in the Radical Left, because we thought that the proposal that the government had put forward with its plan Denmark can do more than that was too violent for the young people who were on a graduation rate, compared to both cutting their daily allowance period and lowering the graduation rate. It was not the only impression we in the Radical Left were given to get the first 3 months of the graduating from a lowering. We also secured significant investment in training so that a total of 1.3 billion would be allocated. kr. towards 2030 for investment in quality in education, what was a really important point for us in the Radical Left. And it acts among other things. on climate vocational schools offering vocational and continuing training which are particularly relevant to those sectors that contribute to meeting climate objectives. Another impression was a tariff increase for humanist and social science education, and in addition, the overall agreement also contains elements in relation to significant investments in green conversion, in research and development. And when I say this, it is because it was certainly not our cup of tea in the Radical Left that the graduating rate should be cut as sharply as it has ended up, and that is why we have fought hard for all the other measures in the field of education. The second part of this bill is about the employment allowance, i.e. the investment in the benefit system, when you increase the rate for the first three months. And we believe, with radical spectacles, that we must continue to have high levels of support for the benefit system. If those who finance the benefit system, i.e. those who have low unemployment and high wages, can no longer see the scam of being a member, then we will have a problem. There are also several economists who have pointed out that the problem we are dealing with, among other things. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. And the fixed labour market will mean that a lot of things will be written into your contracts. This slows down the development of our society. So, overall, this bill comes from a larger agreement, which we in the Radical Left really welcome, and we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145613	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's from Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145618	Thank you. Actually, I also just signed up to sign off on Radicals' opposition to cutting the graduation rate. And in my earlier reference to Social Democracy it was more about the ordinary labour supply discussion, and why they have likely embedded the arguments for suddenly having to cut the graduating rate instead of admitting that it is to deliver on the labour supply, and that discussion in relation to Radicals. I just wanted to say that so there was no misunderstanding about it. But then I also have a question about the well-being of young people. There has been the whole corona closure and a lot of other things, and we actually saw it before the corona crisis. Can the rapporteur not be worried that this could help to stress young people even more and make it possible to say yes to even more precarious jobs than would otherwise be done? I hope, of course, that at some point we can get rid of this, but until then I will hear what the rapporteur thinks we can do about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145721	First of all, thank you for clarifying that it is not at the request of the Radical Left that this part concerning the graduating rate has come into being, but that it is certainly the result of the Radical Left and the SF's struggle that the first three months have also been released. The well-being of young people is very dear to me and the Radical Left. After all, we have seen reports which also specifically identify the distrust that exists among young women, and that is a social challenge, I would say, but which cannot be solved in one place. This needs to be resolved in several places and not only here in this circle of employment rapporteurs. Of course, it can be about the economy, but I certainly think it is also about a lot of other things. It could be character races or pressure from social media, and so, in this way, young people's lives are also more than economics.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145827	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145829	Yes, and I think that when you look at the whole thing with Denmark, it looks like the government has looked at where they can get the most work offering, where it hurts the least, and then they have taken the graduating rate. But I just think it has become a habit for the government to ask itself where it is that you can do some things where it hits hard, also in relation to it could be something quite different • relocation of education, where funding does not come with and where there is no money to create a proper study environment etc. and so on, which is why I can be concerned that we are also choosing to target young people here as well. What does the rapporteur think about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145908	Well, that's one of them. That is why, in the Radical Left, we did not agree to the agreement to abolish study places. It was because there are simply limited opportunities for young people to train themselves. That is also why, in my speech, I highlighted the many investment in education, which is also included in this agreement. So there is also a focus on young people and on young people's educational opportunities, something that has been very close to our hearts, because there are also some parties in this Parliament who have to be the voice of young people and say that there must also be improvements for young people. This can't all be about seniors.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145952	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503145956	I am somewhat surprised at the very strong anchoring and support for the conditions of young people when one votes in favour of a dramatic reduction in the rate, in my opinion, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, and that is particularly what shortens the benefit period. There's no logic in it. How will the Radicals justify halving the unemployment benefit period for young people, who they know are finding it harder to get a job than those who have experience?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503150024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503150028	Mrs Jette Gottlieb knows that this is not an element of the agreement that has emerged from the Radical Left's proposal. After all, this is an overall agreement, which is based on the fact that we have reached compromises. The Radical Left has that, and so do other parties. However, I do have a need to highlight the significant investments, which are also included in this agreement, in the field of education, because this is precisely a boost for young people and their opportunities for education. Investing in the green transition, I am also very convinced that young people have a strong interest in parties in the Folketing giving priority to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503150112	Mrs. Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503150117	I just want to know whether the Radicals are aware of the very great difficulties many of the graduates will have in getting into the ordinary benefit system. I was very pleased and would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur said that the high level of support for the benefit system was important, but it is actually very difficult for some of the graduates to get into the ordinary system when they have been through this process because the benefit period has halved and then they cannot earn sufficient income to get into the ordinary. Is this something that has been discussed in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503150149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503150153	I have not been to all the negotiating meetings myself, so I cannot say yes or no to whether it has been exactly that way. But there is the possibility that you can earn and enter and be part of the ordinary benefit system, and some of it also has to do with the increased free amount in su, which I actually think is a very good element, but which I did not just mention, but which is also part of the agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503150220	Thank you. These are no more brief comments, so we thank Mrs Samira Nawa. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Jette Gottlieb.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503150237	I would like to say one positive thing about this bill. The government and the parties to the agreement cry out from the rooftops that they are fully aware that the unemployment benefit system is inadequate today. There is much to address in connection with this proposal, but I have chosen to concentrate mostly on the deterioration of the graduation rate and of the duration of the graduation period. The lower rate means economic uncertainty for young people. Many people go down in income in relation to their previous income while losing their dormitories, their study discounts, etc. and so on, but it is also a huge problem that the period should be halved. The shorter period undermines the whole point by having a security system. Everyone knows that it is harder to get a job when you do not come directly from another job, you are always told that you need more experience, but where do you get the experience from if you are not hired? The statistics also show that graduates get jobs, but it only takes a little longer. Then there is the practical factor that does not come into the picture here, namely that graduates enter the labour market in lumps. This means that on the same date they are very many about the offer, and this, of course, also helps to delay the entry into the labour market, so that must also be taken into account. Then the possibility of entering the ordinary benefit system has been greatly made difficult. I heard Mr. Bent Bøgsted asked if it was not true that one could, of course, be commonly calculated on one's apprentice's salary, for example. Of course, you can be usually calculated on your apprentice's salary and then get into the ordinary system, but the problem is that the apprentice's salary is not high enough. This means that in order to obtain the necessary amount to enter the full rate of unemployment benefit, it must be paid at least for the last 11⁄2 years and sometimes for two years to reach that amount, which means that the vast majority of apprentices will not be able to earn any normal rate during their apprenticeship period. In addition, if you have to base your entry into the ordinary system of work within the one-year period that is now, you almost have to have work all the time, and that is usually the problem, so it is not so easy to see that it can be done. Then I understand that the parties to the agreement are very much in agreement that this action will be behavioural, but it is really contradictory. Firstly, STAR has just made its report that there was no behavioural regulation to trace in relation to the reductions in the graduation rate that were made in 2017, so there is like a clear indication that it is not that simple. Then there is the great overall concern that we have raised in various rapporteurs, namely the massive fear that the whole system will lose its shelf life, and that, among other things, will be the case if young people do not come along. The Socialist rapporteur stressed that the benefit system only works if there is support for it, and I fully agree with that, but it weakens support when the benefit system has deteriorated in recent years. Since the 1990s it has been very seriously reduced and the average coverage rate has already fallen to 50 per cent. In the case of the old-age pension, it is still being eroded, even next year, that the unemployment benefit system is still being deducted. Then I would also point out that it is harder for those who are less permanent. I asked the Minister a question and got a really funny answer. I asked if it was not unreasonable that there should be a difference between the permanent and the less permanent employees, and then I got the answer: no, no, they both have the opportunity to get the increased rate for the three months, if they are just a little bit permanent, namely just having two years' work or something. It was a good day man, ax-stick-answer, but the short of the long one is that it is of course harder to receive the increases if you have a more loose job. Either you make too much money and work too much, and then you are rushed into the system too quickly, so that the two years prescribed by the law do not pass before you can get your increased rate again, or you have too little work, and then you cannot get it either, because then you cannot be placed on it. One can of course see how this will work, when at the same time one notices the huge increase in private insurance. Then I would like to say that there has been a lack of sensitivity to some of the consultation responses from the practitioners, and this applies in relation to sickness benefit and to changing mid-months. I would like to conclude by asking the Minister a few questions: does the Minister believe that if the law is to regulate behaviour, it is essential that the law is understood? And then I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister is willing to include in the legislative text a thorough evaluation one year after entry into force and that the law should be reviewed with a sunset clause after two years, so that it can be assessed whether this has worked as intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503150757	Thank you. The rest of the questions will be put to the Minister at some point. Hey, there's just one brief comment. Jette Gottlieb didn't look like that). No. I'm sorry. Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503150817	Was it an attempt to escape that we knew from the rapporteur there? There were just a few questions for which I would like to ask for documentation. The first is the one with the apprentices' salaries, which is probably not true. In other words, if you count on the apprentices' salaries in the final stages, then you go above the graduating rate. You don't go up on the highest daily allowance, but you get over the graduating rate. The rapporteur said it as if it were not. On the vast majority of apprentices' salaries it gives a calculation that is above the graduation rate. That's one thing. The second is with regard to this using STAR's study in relation to this behavior that you had the last time you reduced the graduating rate. Would Mrs Jette Gottlieb not just add to the debate that this is a completely different starting point? At that time, the degree rate was reduced in general, i.e. it lacked the incentive that comes when you approach a cliff. Approaching a cliff doesn't matter to those people who don't have the resources they don't have the resources to get started. But these young people do, so these are two very different situations that the rapporteur is mixing up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503150925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503150929	Firstly, yes, it may be calculated in relation to one's apprentice's salary, but it requires some things. For example, you need to be a member for at least two years, otherwise you will not have enough income to enter the system at the minimum level required. So it takes you to be guided to join, 2 years before you graduate. So that's one part of it. The second is that you can only join on the basis of study jobs you have next door. But I would not recommend students that they have full-time jobs next to the study they have not generally at least. So this is a more difficult situation. That's one part of it. In relation to the second part of that, whether there is a new situation because you have a higher rate for the first 3 months, I would say that if you follow the curve that you follow when you enter, or the curve that you follow, if you are going to work after graduating, there are two cracks in it. One is after 3 months, the other is after 6 months. It is true that there is, of course, an opportunity to see that the rate is now going down somewhat, but that is not automatically given more jobs, if it is true what I am saying, in relation to the fact that all graduates are very interested in getting jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151042	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151045	So allow me to conclude: you can calculate your benefit rate according to your apprentice's salary. It is clear that one must have been a member during that period, and there one will end up over the graduation rate. So you can. Paragraph 2: I would also like to conclude that the STAR study, to which Mrs Jette Gottlieb refers, cannot be used to assess the situation that arises when we do a 3-month period, when there comes a cliff, where the behaviour typically among this very resourceful group would be different in a situation where it is generally lowered for everyone. The question I wanted to ask specifically, however, is: when Mrs Jette Gottlieb is just saying that these graduates are fast in work, why is it a problem that we put it down to one year?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151123	I'm not saying they're fast at work. I say that they are slower in jobs than the average, but after 1 year, they are as unemployed or as non-unemployed as ordinary benefit recipients. When one has always talked about the fact that graduates now make up a quarter of all the unemployed and such things, one has not included in the sentence that it is therefore important that the number of graduates has been substantially increased over the same period. In relation to the question of whether you can get in from your apprentice's salary, I would say that it is true that you can calculate it. I'm saying you can't calculate it for a normal rate. You can get higher than the graduation rate, that is true, but it requires that the total amount, the 244,000 you must have earned, is part of it, and therefore it must be over the entire membership period. In other words, one must now find out that one must be a member for more than one year.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151222	Another brief comment has just been made. Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151232	That is because Mrs Jette Gottlieb is calling for questions to be asked. I just need to hear Mrs Jette Gottlieb when she talks about them being a member for two years: I assume that Enhedslisten and Mrs Jette Gottlieb recommend apprentices that they be in an unemployment fund as soon as possible and not just wait until the last year to join?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151258	Yes, of course. But that is just not what is happening in practice. What is happening in practice is that there is a waiting period which the rapporteurs may know if you first join the 14 days you have to enter after leaving education and you can bypass the fact that your daily allowance is paid for the first period if you have been a member for at least one year. That with a year is how it is incorporated. But I'm just saying that in order to be able to be calculated from your apprentice's salary, you have to have been a member for a longer period of time, and people have to know that, because it then takes extra guidance to find out. This applies to all trainees, but it is clear that it is easier to see for the apprentices.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151343	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151345	Well, Mrs Jette Gottlieb should be thrilled about this, that is to say that they should be a member for two years, because in this way Mrs Jette Gottlieb can promote the fact that there will be more members to the cashiers. Be sure to join as soon as possible; and there are many a-boxes running with free membership. Is it not just a question of grabbing the apprentices and telling them what the consequences are and what the benefits are if they join? It must be good for Enhedslisten's people to go out and promote it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151418	It is quite excellent, but it is a little harder for those who are in other types of education to understand that they must be a member for a long period of time when they attend an ordinary school, for example. It can be the same in their leisure jobs and their use of leisure jobs to enter the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151436	And now there are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Jette Gottlieb. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr Conservatives. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151447	Thank you for that, President. It is, of course, such a slightly mixed country trade with two proposals in one, and there is nothing wrong with mixed country trade. We acknowledge that it would be a good idea to change the graduation rate for young graduates so that they get to work more quickly and that the rate for young people is reduced to this DKK 9.514. per • more than su and far from the benefits. At the same time, we must say that we have a problem with raising the daily allowance for the first three months for the unemployed by DKK 3.650, which, for obvious reasons, we absolutely cannot see ourselves in. We therefore hope that the government will split the proposal into two, in which case we will vote for the first part and against the last part. If that is not the case, we will vote against the whole proposal. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151532	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Conservative rapporteur, and then it is the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151547	Thank you. Then we stand here with the bill and, in return, we think it is a very good legislative proposal. There's two parts to it. It's only about the graduation rate, where you go from 2 years to 1 year, and so we take it with complete calm in the stomach. We are quite sure that our young people, or generally those who have taken long-term education and who are in a situation where they have finished it, will be able to enter the labour market in one year too and get a foothold there. So we have no challenge with that. You should also remember that there is a stair model here, where you actually get a short period of a slightly higher performance before you step down. That's the part of it. Then there is the second part of it, namely that of the daily allowance, and there I can understand, on several parties that are not part of the agreement, that they believe that this gives someone a glorification. No, actually, you don't. What we are doing is holding our hands under the contractual system that we have in Denmark, and it is not only on the workers' side, but also on the employers' side. We in the Danish People's Party also have no doubt that if the daily allowance does not have a value for the individual, the agreements will start to have a different aim. Then there is no doubt that the trade union movement will start negotiating for some other things. For example, it will. be rules that it will be harder to be dismissed, etc. etc., and then we lack the flexibility that we have in the Danish model. It is a huge force for the Danish labour market, both for workers and for employers, that we have so many job openings, and we do, because we have an insurance system. It's easy to get hired, but it's also easy to get fired, and this allows for flexibility for both parties. When you get a slightly higher daily allowance rate for a short period of 3 months, up to DKK 23,000. an increase per month, which, if it becomes the full amount, is DKK 3.649. Otherwise you reach a point where you may feel even more that you have become vacant. So there we think it is positive that the benefit system will have more value, but it also gives an opportunity for the individual unemployed to have this relatively short period of 3 months to be very active job seekers while having a relatively high level of dependency. So all in all, we have to say that we are sure that, when it is evaluated, this has actually been a very positive agreement, both for workers and indeed for employers, because we are not going to get into some collective bargaining where we start to tighten the screw elsewhere in terms of keeping people on the labour market and making ourselves attractive to the trade union movement. So we are very much in favour of this part of the agreement and we are actually very happy with both. Although other rapporteurs have been somewhat sceptical about this, we think that this is good for the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151905	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no brief comments, and then it is the rapporteur for the New Citizens' Party, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503151916	Thank you. For a few hours now we have had another debate in the Danish Parliament, where the Left says that it is terrible that those who have the least in society do not have enough. Yet it is this side of the Folketing that is behind the country with the world's highest tax burden. There are no places that tax their citizens as hard as here in Denmark, and if the Left really wanted to help these people, do it better for people to have a little more in their pockets, then you would remove some of the taxes and taxes. There are a large number of charges where the social arrow points down and hits those who have the least, the hardest. Let's get rid of them. But we do not see many of those proposals. Then we find ourselves in a situation where inflation is galloping out there, where the amount of available money is being eroded, but in here in the Folketing is the only place where you don't have to spin and save, no, the citizens out there have to lie and mess with that themselves. Now there is a proposal which, in some areas, does something good, creates an increase in labour supply and helps the economy a little. On the other hand, money is spent on something that goes the opposite way. This is going to be a little hassle: we can support one part, and the other part we are not in favour of. We recognise that this is an agreement and that it may not be shared. If it is shared, we can vote in favour of one part. If it does not, then we must vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152041	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152049	I also think that New Citizens cannot know because they were not in the negotiating room there. But we actually proposed that tax cuts should be made for those at the bottom, simply lighten the tax also for those who have low income jobs etc. But unfortunately, the government refused. So we are actually ready to do it if there is a majority in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152113	But it is Enhedslisten who supports a government and has been doing so for three years, which has reduced the disposable income of those who have the least in society, most of all. The laws that have come through from this government have hit those who have the least, most. It's a fact, no matter how you turn it. That is the policy and government supported by the Enhedslisten, and it is therefore impossible, after three years, to keep running away from the fact that that is what has happened. In addition, inequality has increased slightly. The Enhedslisten doesn't like that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152146	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152149	On the contrary, it is not based on a majority when New Citizens want to lower their cash benefits as low as DKr 6 000. But I agree with this agreement. Denmark can do more than that, then putting pressure on the benefit negotiations that we are having with the government right now. Because inequality doesn't have to grow. So, although it has been the time when there has been historically the most investment in welfare that has been financed for 1,000 extra nurses, minimum standards in the day care institutions, 1,000 extra trained and staff in the care of the elderly, teachers, and that is how we could simply continue the list and that helps both those who cannot afford to pay private hospital etc., and also those with the smallest incomes, and, indeed, even if very good things have happened, we are still far from achieving our goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152232	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152234	I would just like to call on the rapporteur to go in and read our economic policy. There is no cash aid amounting to DKr 6 000, and I know that because I have made the policy. In addition, I also believe that we will see now that we will soon be entering an election campaign... that the Enhedslisten will stand and say that those who have the least must have more, while at the same time supporting a policy that goes the opposite way for three years. One will stand by and say that there must be no more inequality in society, while at the same time supporting a government that goes that way. So at the end of the day, it's nothing but pussies. So, if you would at last, let us go together on a resolution to lower the tax on those who have the least, by putting in the belt for once so that people can get something out there. I'd like to be a part of that, but the Enhedslisten won't. After all, it's more about power than helping people out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152318	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Liberal Alliance, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152327	Thank you. The bill here contains two elements. One is that students who for some years have lived on a su-rate of about 6,500 DKK. In the case of unemployment benefits, the amount of unemployment benefit is calculated on the basis of the average monthly earnings. After all, there is a doubling of the publicly paid income when you as a student go from su to unemployment benefit, and it is not conducive to young people taking the work they can get instead of waiting for the dream job they are hoping for. So it's a good thing that the bill here limits the graduation rate. What is not a good thing in the draft law, which means that we cannot vote in favour of the bill, is that you increase the maximum daily allowance for 3 months so that they reach as much as DKK 23,000. in cash benefits for people who are unemployed. Of course, you can say that it would be worse if it were for everyone; if it was for all years you are available on cash benefits that you could get 23,000 kroner. It's only three months after all, but it's also bad enough in itself. For example: There are some sectors where it seems as if employees and employers have entered into agreements that they cannot necessarily find employment for employees for a few months a year and then have what is called seasonal or weathery etc. And if you have a daily allowance rate of as much as DKK 23,000 during those periods, there is little incentive for employees and employers to find out how to recover employees during the months when there is no work to get in ordinary work. So I fear a much, much greater spread of what we call seasonal unemployment in Denmark after this because people can get almost as much as when they are in work. In addition, there are people who become genuinely unemployed in their work and who, if they did not get a very high unemployment benefit rate, probably could find out in the intervening period until they find new jobs in their own industry again, so to find another job until they get a job where they want a job. They will also be less encouraged to be at work when they can get as much as DKK 23,000. in cash benefits. So the result of this is that more people are available for longer. That is also why we need money from the reduction of the graduating rate to finance raising the daily allowance here, both in order to increase the daily allowance, but also because there are more people who will be unemployed as a result of this. We see no reason to do so, and that is why we are voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152627	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152631	Thank you. I'm just getting a little curious about this aversion to the benefits, whether the rapporteur actually has it in relation to private pay insurance, or whether it is more really about the fact that the benefit is a solidarity wage insurance, where you as a society help to ensure that losing your job, getting a note in your hand, should not mean that your everyday life has to be completely broken together, and that it is more the fact that it is solidarity and something you do through the state that you are actually opposed to. For the arguments against the daily allowance, the Liberal Alliance might as well be used against private wage insurance. Would the rapporteur like to say a few words about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152719	It is absolutely true that it makes a huge difference to us whether you spend your own money or you spend other people's money. And as soon as the state is involved in the financing, it is not your own money, so it is other people's money that you spend. The daily allowance is not 100 per cent. They are financed by the employees themselves; they are also to a large extent financed by the taxpayers. That is why it sets a framework which we think should be more restrictive than if you take out private insurance for your own money.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152741	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152744	But it's so fucked up. This will mean, of course, that those who work as cashiers, for example. Net, or those who work as earth and concrete workers, will be in a much more precarious and vulnerable situation, while those who work as lawyers or who work as top economists or some other things will be in a much more secure situation. So those who earn the least will be in a much more vulnerable situation, while those who have had the opportunity to save also will be in a much more favourable situation. Can the rapporteur not see that it would be quite wrong to base it solely on private wage insurance?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152821	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152825	It is such a condition in life that if you make a lot of money, you are a little more confident about the future than if you have less money. And it is also the case that if you are to have money from the public sector, that is. Paid by other people, we must set some other limits than if you just spend your own money. If Enhedslisten does not understand that principle and believes that one should be able to spend as freely by other people money as one spends from one's own money, then it is Enhedslisten who has a problem of understanding here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152853	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152858	I'm just gonna have a word with Mr. Knox. Ole Birk Olesen about what he mentioned about seasonal workers. I know some seasonal workers who get 22,000 kroner. a month in salary when they are at work. How much will they get in cash benefits if they became unemployed? Sir. Ole Birk Olesen says that this is fantastic, because then the companies would just let them go on daily allowances for a period of time, and then they get a high rate. But how much do you get in cash if you get 22,000 kroner? In terms of salary?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152931	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503152934	You get 90 percent. of 22,000 DKK, and it must be 2,200 DKK. times 9, and it's hard to figure out something like $21,000. or nearly 21,000 kroner. in cash benefits if you do not earn more than DKK 23,000. per month's salary. But if you have a monthly salary of 26,000 kroner. And you have some seasonality, you'll be able to get 23,000 kroner. a month at the maximum daily allowance rate now here, as a result of the fact that you and your employer have not planned how to spend your time when you can no longer work in those seasons where you do not work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153007	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153010	It's always dangerous with those numbers, but I can tell Mr. Ole Birk Olesen says if you get 22,000 kroner. In salary, you can get 19,800 kroner. in cash benefits. That's 90 percent. And then there's the thing about how you can get 23,000 kroner. It may be that way in Copenhagen, but over there, where I come from, there are many low-paid people. You can't get 23,000 kroner. In terms of salary. And I can guarantee that the craftsmen who earn 35,000-40,000 kroner don't think it's attractive with 23,000 kroner. It's something else. But the low-paid never come up with the figures that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen's blowing out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153048	Yeah, that's absolutely right. It was really badly rained on me. For the 10% you don't get on the daily allowance is 2,200 DKK, and 22,000 DKK. minus 2,200 kr. is DKK 19,800. But that doesn't change the fact that, for example, if you do... If you earn $26,000, this proposal will enable you to get $23,000 for perhaps two months a year, if that's what you're taking off. In other words, paid by the benefit system for two months a year, if that is what you are doing. I think that reduces the incentive to find out what to do with those months, to a bad degree, where you should sit down and find out: If I'm off duty, if I can't work 2 months every year, what can I do in those 2 months instead of just going on unemployment benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153130	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no more brief comments. And then it's sir. Bent Bøgsted, outside the groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153200	Thank you for that, President. This bill can be said a lot about, but some of what has been important to me in the negotiations that I have been involved in is that skilled people, that is, some who have a professional training, may be a carpenter, it may be a bricklayer, it may be an electrician, it may be a cook, it may be so many others who have a professional training • have received a salary during the training and are not affected by it here. The same applies if a university graduate has had a study job next door and has had some income there; then you can also avoid being affected by it here. One of the things that is also important to look at is that when you're in an A-box, the A-box must also be helpful in getting the unemployed back to work quickly, and we have a shortage of labour. I should just like to say that if you cannot get a job in the area for which you have been trained, it is better to take a job in another area and then you can still look away in the area for which you have been trained. Employers would rather have someone who has a job than someone who has been out of work for a long time. This is one of the things I know from experience, as I myself have been on the labour market for many years and have a vocational training course. So all in all, when you look at this, you can say that there is for and against. I understand those who criticise it. They say they haven't had a chance to make any money. But when you're graduate, you're in an unemployment fund, and then it's the duty of the cashier and the job center to help find a job for the unemployed. The companies are screaming for labour. That's what they say. And then it can't be right if there's so many people out of work. This bill has been well examined, which is why I will not go on pitting out what it is, but just say that the group of six non-attached Members I am presenting supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153412	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153415	Thank you. I also regret that the debate may be dragged out a little, but I actually think it is a little important, because it sounds like you're looking at such a snapshot in society and then saying: well, right now it's easy to get a job, because there's a shortage of labour, and that's why we think it's okay to push the students and then crush the newly educated and poor them. But is the rapporteur not at all worried about this being something that can help to ensure some kind of economic security when there is a recession, just as when there is a boom? In other words, is it not a matter of concern that the economy should be completely eroded in this way? And from the employment point of view we know of some people that young people in particular are often squeezed into precarious jobs. If you have such a bad economy, can the rapporteur not be afraid that you are even more in favour of getting jobs where you really do not get what you should have in pay or do not just have the right working conditions and close your eyes a little to it because you simply cannot afford anything else?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153524	Well, you can never rule out someone getting a little caught up. No matter what education you have, you can risk getting a little caught up. But with the future prospects and the figures which have been presented by the employers and which STAR has put forward, and the Minister for Employment has also mentioned what will be missing from skilled and trained labour in the future, it should not be the case that it is a waste to take an education. Then you should be able to get to work quickly. But it also takes a little that you might be ready to move according to where the job is. It cannot help anything if you say, if you have an education, that I only want to be in Copenhagen; that is the only place I want to work. It can't help anything if there are 15 or 20 places where you need that labor. Then you have to be ready to move. I know many people who have moved around the country because they have taken an education and then take a job where they can now find a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153624	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153627	Yeah, I also know a lot of people who move to get a job. The question is whether the rapporteur knows anyone who does not. In other words, whether the Copenhageners who are being talked about, who do not want to move to take a job, are such anecdotal references to those who may not actually exist? I think it's too bad there's this huge suspicion of young people. I think the rapporteur was quite right in what was said about the fact that when you take an education, you want to use it. You don't take an education and do all the things you have to do and learn a lot of new things to be on cash benefits. You want to use that knowledge. So I think it's too bad you guys are backing this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153709	Well, that's also why I'm saying you have to be ready to move after where there's a job, and that's true, whether you live in Copenhagen or in Østervrå, where I live, or in South Jutland. If there's a job somewhere else and you can get a good job, you have to be ready to move after it. A lot of people do. Then what I'm saying is that compared to those who have suffered other problems, the cashier and the job center must actively go in and help them find a job. Not everyone is able to find a job. It is also not everyone who can find the wish job from day one, so you have to take a job that you know you can do and that can provide some economy until you can find the right job.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153744	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. There are no more brief comments. And then we are through the rapporteur's line and we have reached the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503153759	Thank you very much for the floor and also thank you for the comments on this bill. Having a job is the absolute best for both the individual and for society, especially at a time here, when companies lack labour, but also at all. At the same time, we must also have a safety net of solidarity which grabs those who lose their jobs for a while. I think we deliver on both sides with this ambitious agreement that the government concluded with the SF, the Radical Left, the Danish People's Party and the Christian Democrats, and which was subsequently also supported by the working community with among others. Sir. Bent Bøgsted in the lead. It's a deal that, among other things. increases safety for hard-working Danish employees and who get more members of the working community. More specifically, the agreement also strengthens employment with a total of 12 000 people. And that has taken priority. However, it is essential that we have a secure, attractive and solidarity benefit system if we are to maintain a high level of support for the system. I know that this is also the first time since the 1970s that significant investment is being made in the benefit system. I am both pleased and proud of this, because we increase the security of employees and the future assurance of the Danish model. The bill means that unemployed Danes who have been in work and loyally supported the community in the benefit system can in future receive a higher daily allowance rate for the first 3 months. Only if the unemployment benefit system is safe, attractive and solidarity-based can we also maintain a strong connection to the system, and I hope we can stand together in this Parliament. I see today's motion for a resolution on set-off and daily allowances as an expression of the fact that we all share the same basic desire. But there must also be a fair and better balance in the benefit system. As the rules are today, we do not believe that this is the case. It is my clear position and that of the government that it is unsustainable when graduates with free membership of the cash register have doubled their benefit by unemployment, while a bricklayer with an average salary of DKK 40,000 who has loyally paid to the cashier for many years has halved his income by unemployment. That is the bias that we are trying to correct with the draft law today. We also support that education of course leads to work. Finally, I would like to thank the parties for the good treatment of this bill and I look forward to the committee's further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154028	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154031	Thank you. First of all, I cannot help but react to the fact that the Minister almost made it sound as if it were before the Minister was born that so much investment in the unemployment benefit system has been made; but do we not agree by quick calculation that, when the Minister was between 10 and 20 years old, the unemployment benefit rate was actually higher and at the level to which it will now be voted. So it's still a pretty wild erosion that's been going on all the time that's been going on since the 1990s and looking forward to now, isn't it? So I think this is such a slightly misleading way of talking about it. The reality is, of course, that the daily allowance has been eroded massively and that right now the opportunity that we have mobilised for the election has been missed for us to restore the daily allowance. We had to restore the daily allowance period, we had to restore the daily allowance and now it has become the first 3 months. So it's clear that this is for the most resourceful benefit recipients. Is this it, or is there going to be a real recovery of the daily allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154138	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154141	I do not want to compete with Mrs Victoria Velasquez's historical knowledge of what the daily allowance rates have been for certain periods, but I am quite convinced that there has not been such an individual investment in the daily allowance system since the 1970s; in other words, a political decision to do more for our entire safety net. Of course, I take all sorts of reservations that there may be historical facts I have overlooked, but nevertheless I feel convinced of that. Having said that, I believe that what we are doing with this agreement and with this employment supplement, where it is such a significant increase in insurance for more than one and a half million Danish employees, who, if they were to become unemployed, will experience up to DKr 3 600. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the first period of unemployment, there is much greater value in the connection with the benefit system than in the restoration of the erosion referred to by Mrs Victoria Velasquez, who, as far as I remember, will only contribute a few hundred kroner more per month during the unemployment period. That's why we've ended up doing it this way, which we think is stronger for the individual and stronger for the system as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154255	Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154259	I am sorry that this was also said in a rather confusing way. I mean, the point is, if you've taken a crazy lot of money in the last 30 years, you make it sound like a really big investment; some of it's just money you kind of fill up with again. That's my point about what I said. I would like to ask a few questions about the Minister's turn on the question of the graduating rate. Why is it that the Social Democrats suddenly start to go in and embed and operationalise what the calculator wants, that you get to work more quickly, if you get financially pressured, instead of focusing on it being a proper help and that the jobs should be there?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154336	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154339	I do not think that our proposal should be seen here on the basis of the behavioural consequences. In other words, you take and look at what is the direct effect of asking some of the most resourceful young graduates, after 3 months of unemployment, to come down to a lower rate, to what we invest in the benefit system, then it is more or less up to crowns. Then it is true that behavior is included in everything you do. We have, for example. earlier today, the proposal to abolish set-off in the spouse's pension was considered. That makes that proposal considerably cheaper overall, and it must be included, at least until one comes to a point where there is evidence of some other things and one can then change the methods of calculation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154430	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Employment. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154510	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154520	Thank you. I would also like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution. It has been some very talented and tenacious officials in the Ministry of Employment who have written a long speech to this motion for a resolution, and I think I will do the service of those present in the Chamber not to take as a starting point the very long speech, but just to say briefly, as I also said, when we dealt with the bill a little earlier today to abolish the set-off in the spouse's pension, that I interpret this proposal as meaning that there is basically a fairly broad consensus in the Folketing on it. Then we can disagree on how it is financed and how we get there and so on, but I think this resolution is superfluous at a time when we have just discussed a legislative proposal. Against this background, I would therefore appeal to the parties that agree to vote in favour of that bill. We are also still very welcome to ask for membership of the collective agreement, if we should have the courage to do so, I am not under any illusions about that, but basically I do not think there is any reason to have a long polemical debate on something that I interpret as being quite agreed on, and I do not agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154641	Thank you. There is a brief comment, Mr President. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154646	Thank you. That was in relation to the draft law put forward by the government. There is, of course, a change in early retirement there, and how much you must earn and the three years, and that is not included in this. These are not two identical things, so I have to ask whether one would be willing to share the other bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154710	So, basically, we will speak against the sharing of the second legislative proposal, and that is because it follows from an agreement complex which has been negotiated by a contracting party. And I also think that I'm in Mr. Knox's office. Lars Boje Mathiesen's speech in connection with the legal proceedings heard that he was curious about what this element was meant to contribute to. And it is in fact an attempt to equate the principles of senior pension beneficiaries with those of early retirement. And we hope so, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen in committee could be more open to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154740	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154744	Yes, and we will have to do that during the committee procedure, but it is just to address it with the fact that these are not two identical motions for resolutions. And that is absolutely the right of the government if you do not want to divide it up, but then you can say that this resolution still has a relevance, because it is not exactly the same as the other one.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154804	Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen is of course right, and there are also some other elements in the bill, among others. that you also address the issue of the calendar year model, etc. And in the end it does not change the government's attitude to the resolution, namely that the government intends to vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154818	Thank you, there are no more brief comments, thank you to the Minister for Employment. Then we start with the rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Henrik Møller. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503154842	The draft law we are now considering concerns parts of the agreement on faster in jobs and a stronger labour market, which is about giving seniors stronger incentives to work after the retirement age and getting more into work. It is a question of abolishing spouse counterparts, so that more pensioners and seniors no longer have to worry about the financial consequences of wanting to give an extra hand to the labour market where their competences are so badly needed. And then what we find out is: hey, that could be the speech I made in relation to Bill 170, which we have just dealt with a short time ago. Now we are experiencing something that is almost identical. There have just been some puns about the changes that are, but I think it is gratifying that both the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberal Alliance and the New Civil Alliance support the proposal that we have before us to abolish the marriage bill. It can be said that somewhere there should of course be nothing to stand in the way of there being broad support and an effective process to make it more attractive for seniors to work. The Social Democratic Party does not support this resolution, and it is against the background of the bill we have almost just considered. However, there must of course be a call for us to see in some way whether we cannot work towards a common position on precisely this. 'Cause it seems like we're agreed on this far along the way. But we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155015	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the SF's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155030	Excellent suggestion! I would recommend to the proposers that they vote in favour of L 170.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155035	There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Karsten Hønge. Then it is the rapporteur from the Radical Left, Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155051	Thank you very much. This will be the time of the short speeches. In the Radical Left, we think this is a good and interesting motion for a resolution, but we have just dealt with a legislative proposal for which we have expressed our support. This is part of an overall agreement of which the Radical Left is a part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155109	Thank you. There are also no brief comments to the Radical Left rapporteur. Then it is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155118	Thank you. I would also like to thank the parties that have tabled this resolution. We will be supporting this resolution in the Enhedslisten. In fact, I think it is very good to show that funding can easily come from elsewhere. In this proposal, the money will be taken from the disposal room. We believe that this is a proper priority for the money, and that is why we shall be voting in favour of the proposal. I really just hope that, whether it is going to be this proposal or any other proposal, there are no parties that are going to tighten up how quickly it can get through. If it was up to us, it would have to go through now. I know that with legislative processes and so on. may take some time, but I really hope that we can get it through as soon as possible, because it will create greater security for those who are currently worried about their economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155208	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155212	I would just like to thank the Enhedslisten for supporting the resolution. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is precisely that it should not be delayed, that there should be no uncertainty about the economy, so that it can enter into force. That is the whole reason for putting it forward. The second draft law contains a financing element which is not certain, and that is why this resolution has been tabled, which does not have the element of uncertainty, precisely so that people out there are not to be taken hostage.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155243	One thing is that it is not certain; another is that the funding in the other which we have just dealt with is a poor funding because you take the daily allowance of newly trained people. It is a huge declaration of distrust for young people that they say that you should have a lower daily allowance rate. The second point I think has actually been discussed far too little, and it is about taking the compensation that should be for cash aid recipients, for increasing electricity charges, prices and so on, because the money is being taken away from those who are currently being hit the hardest by rising energy prices. I hope, then, that in the negotiations that are currently about making compensation we can actually get it removed, but I do not know that, and that is why I really think it would be best to use the room for manoeuvre instead of having to take the money from some of those who have the least money in our society. Honestly, you're young, you're newly educated, you have to be allowed to start your life in a good way, instead of having to worry about your economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155346	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Niels Flemming Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155354	Thank you very much for the floor. I shall also try to be as brief as the other rapporteurs. We are faced with B 137, which deals with the same thing as the Government's proposal for offsetting, with a few differences in, among others. the financing and in relation to early retirement. Together with the Left, New Citizens and LA, we are putting forward this proposal for the abolition of spouses' pensions so that the Danes get more money between their hands. The motion for a resolution will increase employment, and it is necessary at a time when unemployment is low, but also in a world where unemployment is not so low, because it is about freedom of choice. Do we not think we can find a good solution to the set-off somewhere in between? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155436	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155441	Now there's actually a little difference between these two proposals. Actually, I'd like them to be a little more different. This is about the early retirement pensionist, who is now going to support his or her spouse and is actually going to receive a lower early retirement pension because there are economies of scale. But there is just the fact that the spouse gets zero crowns because he or she is hit by mutual dependants. Should we not make an amendment to this proposal to the effect that early retirement is not put in such a situation, in other words that they will simply be exempted from having to provide for a spouse if he is on early retirement? Will Conservatives accommodate that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155522	At least I think we should try to look at the numbers in relation to it and then try to see if we can't include it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155525	Thank you. It's Mrs. Victoria Velasquez again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155528	I'm really glad to hear that. It is not a question of very many people, but I think it is quite clear how absurd an economic situation is being put in by the people in question. So thank you so much for that answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155542	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155544	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155556	Thank you. As a former rapporteur said: we must move fast; we must move so fast that it should have been on Sunday that the draft law should have been adopted so that it could have been implemented by 1 May 2022. Then it will be relatively fast when it is retroactive. I don't think that's gonna happen. As several rapporteurs have said, this is very similar to draft law L 170. However, it is a proposal that has not been financed, and it is actually very funny that it is this proposal that Enhedslisten says they can vote for. Because when there is finally a proposal that has not been financed, it is just to the right of the Enhedslisten. However, the Danish People's Party cannot support the proposal. Of course, we support L 170.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155634	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155637	Thank you. It is not much different from the things we get through, for example. in the Finance Act. So in this way there is advice in relation to spending room for manoeuvre on it and we had a surplus on government finances of 59 billion. kr. Last year. So it's all about how you want to give the money priority. It is clear that this will of course have an impact on what is room for manoeuvre to negotiate for in the Finance Act, and there we have just actively made the decision that we say: OK, we are actually ready that there is less to negotiate the Finance Act for, because we think this is so important. I really hope that the rapporteur will be able to recognise this. Then you can have a lot of disagreement about everything else. But I really think it was such a bit of a shame, because the rapporteur is well aware of the financial law and knows how much to negotiate from there and, of course, it is also about how much room there is for manoeuvre and how much room for manoeuvre has been used, for example. during the year and forward-looking in agreements. This is no different from other agreements, which are also subject to room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155731	At any rate, I can say that under no circumstances can a surplus be used for a single year to finance something that is structural in all the years ahead. There you can make a pool, and then you can do it for a couple of years. But that is not what the proposal here says. Well, that's structural. And in relation to the room for manoeuvre, you should remember that if you look at the room for manoeuvre until 2030, it's kind of gone. In other words, an agreement has also been made, a national compromise, to spend DKK 18 billion a year on defence, which is not funded either. So, the fact that the room is just there isn't exactly right.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155803	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155806	We are so opposed to blindly spending 18 billion. kr. on the national compromise, and that is why I think it is only quite fair that we should rather use the room for manoeuvre and the money to abolish the principles of mutual dependants. It's structural when you choose to do it. We have said that we do so completely with our eyes open. Then there may be other proposals, for example. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on this matter. That is how it is to be a party there are some things you agree with, and there are some things you do not agree with. And this seems reasonable to us to use the room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155837	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155840	I would say that we have just had the debate on L 170, and that is where we are actually removing the interdependence. It's fully funded, and it's not hocuspocus. And, of course, I also expect it to be adopted. So the mutual dependent disappears and it is fully funded.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155853	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503155901	Thank you. There has actually been a little debate up to this resolution about whether this is such a teasing proposal or something, but it is by no means. It was because we were in a situation where there was uncertainty about certain elements and whether this could enter into force because there was simply no funding in the agreement that was made. Then we said that it was a bad situation, that there are some people out there and that we did not think it was fair that they should be held hostage in a forthcoming election campaign and some of the work that must be done afterwards. I would like to say a big thank you to the Left, Conservative and Liberal Alliance and I will remember the Liberal Alliance because we know very well in New Citizens that it is not basically grown in your garden with spouse dependency and the set-off. But we have measured ourselves against each other and found a compromise, and we are really, really happy about the cooperation that succeeded there so I would like to use this opportunity to at least say thank you for that. And then I have a little hint for the Left and Conservatives that let this be the starting point for you not to do stupid things with national compromises and all sorts of other things that are unfunded now that we're in the process, right? Now look at the good cooperation we've had about this. That would be an advantage. And then I would say that if the DF has a completely new principle that they do not use any room for manoeuvre for any political proposals, I will certainly stop them if that is the case in the future, because we now hear that the financial rapporteur is actually saying that there will be no room for manoeuvre for any political proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503160034	There is a brief comment from Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503160040	Thank you. I am glad that we managed to have this proposal dealt with so that we could also have a discussion on funding and the other parts. But I was just thinking that on the New Citizens' website it says that you want to remove the mutual dependent, and now the rapporteur was one of those who made a great deal of teasing the citizen's proposal at the time that they called it mutual dependent, even though it is really a legal matter of cash aid. So I would just like to ask whether New Citizens think that we should abolish the mutual dependent in the sense that it will be abolished for cash benefits recipients?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503160114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503160116	No, and it is no longer stated in the same section that it is the spouse's dependency and what benefits are covered. The mutual dependent is, after all, such an umbrella concept, which has been used in a variety of political ways. I heard that DF's financial rapporteur also used it and said that we have now voted to remove mutual dependents, but technically that is not what has been done. It has not yet been removed, because mutual dependants are only about cash benefits, and this is about the three other benefits. So no, if you are to have the exact, specific, technical term for it, it is spouse dependency and not mutual dependents. We also believe that the mutual dependents should be maintained.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503160152	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503160153	Then I just hope that you will learn from it and that you will start using the words that people have called it for yourself in relation to the teasing that was about the citizen's proposal at the time, but don't worry about it. I really think it is a little too bad that we do not want to abolish the mutual dependents. It is important that we know this when it comes to getting out of social control. Social control is one of the very negative things. But then there may also be the other things that may be that you think: I can get a job if I, for example, get a job. move home to my spouse or we get married and move somewhere or something. Why not see some opportunities in relation to economic autonomy? Well, there's nothing unreasonable about people getting $0.?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503160234	Thank you, and here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503160236	I'm a huge fan of financial independence. That's why we're gonna make it so that the first $90,000 you make is tax-free, and then you're only paying 37 percent. Baby. We want to remove the labour market contribution and remove the top tax. We are also willing to lower the base tax and we would like to remove the electricity tax. In a wide range of areas we will be willing to do so. What is the difference between cash benefits and other benefits is that cash benefits, at least in my optics, are a temporary benefit that you have to be on if you do not have a job. The problem with that system is that there are a large number of people who have had some other problems of being trapped in this system and who really had to go to a completely different service and in a completely different job. But I would like us to come back to where the cash assistance system was only a system for those people who temporarily did not have a job. Then I think that the problem had also been resolved.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503160315	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Alex Vanopslagh of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503160326	Thank you. In connection with both this motion for a resolution and the draft law that was on the programme before, there are, in fact, some things you can enjoy and some things you can be less proud of and annoy a little bit more about. One could of course welcome the fact that there is actually a consensus throughout the Folketing to remove the set-off in the income of spouses compared to those who are spouses of early retirement and old-age pensioners. But of course it is rather strange that we are dealing with two proposals that are very similar to each other, and to put it bluntly, it is because we could not agree on this political agreement that Denmark can do more, and then the Social Democratic spinning machine started to start immediately: the bourgeois will not remove the set-off. And to show that this is not true, we are tabling a motion for a resolution, but it is essentially a waste of time. We know how to vote, and it is really just to avoid political mud throwing. I think that is a pity, and the whole fucking thing started with us having a negotiation process where the government was dependent on the blue parties, because there was some conciliation, and because there was something to be done on foreign labour. And even if you are dependent on the blue parties and dependent on giving them some concessions, so that the blue parties would be included in an agreement, you choose to say: you cannot get any concessions. It was so good enough for the Radicals, and then you choose to run their show. I think that is a pity, that is, the political show process that has been taken together. However, I would like to conclude with something that we can all welcome, especially those of us who are bourgeois, and that is the fantastic logic that the Left in particular has produced in the whole discussion about removing the set-off. Because it is quite true that it is a good idea to remove it. It is also quite true that it is the left who has fought this battle primarily. And when it's a good idea to remove this set-off, it's because a lot of people who are in work, but have a spouse who either on early retirement or on a national pension, experience an incredibly high top tax. They find that when they work an hour extra, it can't really pay because the spouse is set off in its public service, and it's a high tax on the last earned crown, a high marginal tax, said in other words: It's a high top tax for these people. And that's where Mr. Karsten Hønge and all sorts of others from the left argued day in and day out for, as it doesn't pay for these people to work, and that's absolutely right. I just think we should welcome the fact that this logic has been found in the left, because it is exactly the same logic that applies when the top tax means that there are fewer people working over an extra hour. Then that logic must spread to many other areas, including those which do not concern public services. So I will conclude with a message of joy and welcome the fact that something is going to happen in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503160613	Thank you very much to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503160619	Thank you. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil, Liberal Alliance and the Left, I should like to thank you for the debate on this resolution, which is intended to make it more attractive for Danish seniors to work. Specifically, we want to remove the set-off in early, senior and folk pensions as a result of a partner's income. We have discussed this on several occasions. However, this motion for a resolution also contains a proposal to remove the set-off in the old-age pension as a result of own income. This is an element which is not included in the legislative proposal we have dealt with earlier this afternoon. And there is a need at a time when unemployment is low and there is an acute shortage of labour to do something to ensure that it is even more profitable to work. Then it is also crucial that we ensure that people have the freedom to choose for themselves whether to contribute to the labour market after a pension has been awarded. We have dealt with L 170 earlier today, which is a component of this motion for a resolution, but we go so far as to say that it must also be a question of removing the set-off in the national pension as a result of own income from work. I can count on it so far that, on the basis of what I have written down, I can see that it is not, of course, because there is a massive majority in favour of this particular motion for a resolution. But I am listening that both the government through the Minister of Employment, the Social Democratic Party, the SF, the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party support the intention to remove this set-off. The Enhedslisten even says that they will vote in favour of the resolution, and we thank you for that. And I do not think, as the Minister said, that this is superfluous. I mean, this actually contains one more element that's about exactly this elimination of the set-off for own earnings in the folk pension. This is, in fact, a very important element. Then we propose that it be put into effect by 1 January 2023 at the latest. We would have liked it to have been earlier, and that is also why we are writing the last part of the resolution. However, we thought it was important to keep pressure on to ensure that it was actually implemented. And there are also great expectations that it will actually be possible to make those changes, and they welcome the proposers. And then, on behalf of the Left, I would like to say that it is absolutely essential that we ensure that there are more people who want to contribute. When people have a marginal tax of 70%. And 80 per cent, it also illustrates very well that it is not attractive to walk an extra kilometer, and that is also why we can rejoice that there is almost support from the whole parliament in recognising that the system we have got screwed up at a time when we have a shortage of labour is not sustainable. So, on behalf of the authors of the motion for a resolution, I would like to thank you for a good debate and we look forward to the committee reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503160950	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503161002	The debate is open and we will give the floor to the Minister for Employment first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503161018	Thank you very much for that, and it's just like an introduction, maybe just a short line, to mr. Alex Vanopslagh's very open and honest explanation of why these motions for resolutions have been tabled. We in the government do not want to interfere in what parliamentary methods are used, and I do not know whether I should be sorry, but at least it is interesting that we have been called to table a motion for a resolution because we have been sorry that the government has highlighted some disagreements. In any case, I think that this is a condition in which we must all get used to in general terms, and we are happy to deal with the resolutions tabled by the parties of the Folketing, no matter how identical they are with the legislative proposals being dealt with on the same day, and here, at least, is a resolution in roughly the same category. The Left, Conservative, New Civil and Liberal Alliance have given their bid for a new reform package for the Danish economy, and I will not go through the measures individually, but I am of course pleased to see that the resolution contains several of the proposals that are already part of the agreement that the government reached back in January with the SF, Radical, Danish People's Party and Christian Democrats and subsequently backed up by the working community between a number of non-attached Members. However, I am extremely sorry that the bourgeois people do not want to hold hands under hard-working Danes, and I am surprised that the bourgeois people, from the point of view of the government at least, underestimate the value of a secure, attractive and solidarity benefit system. In my view, the Danish flexicurity model is a major reason why our labour market is so strong after the corona crisis, and perhaps I should also make it clear here that our benefit system is a cornerstone of the Danish flexicurity model. Unemployment in Denmark is low and employment is historically high and for the benefit of the many Danes who have joined our business community and society as a whole. Jobs and growth are so strong that we are well equipped to deal with rising unemployment, which could be a consequence of the current corona crisis. We are also in a situation where jobs lack hands and heads, and fortunately we agree that we need more jobs so that we can get the necessary labour for companies. But it is also important for the government that there is a proper and fair balance between security and the economic benefit of taking a job. It is untenable when the newly educated person, with a free membership to the cashier, has doubled his benefit by unemployment while at the same time the bricklayer with an average salary of DKK 40,000. the month, which has loyally paid to its cashier for years, is experiencing half its income by unemployment. We do not think this is fair and the government is going to correct this imbalance, both by changing the terms of the graduates, which we have dealt with in this Chamber a few moments ago, and by investing in the benefits and increasing the income security of the Danes who are only short-term unemployed. That is why I think it is a pity that the bourgeois parties do not want to strengthen the benefit system, which is a cornerstone of the Danish model, and which creates greater security for the many Danish employees who go to work every day and contribute to society, and which, moreover, is also a huge advantage for the competitiveness of companies. I say it again: for the government it is a matter of finding the right balance and creating a secure, attractive and solidarity benefit system, a benefit system in which hard-working Danes can see themselves, and we do so with the package presented by the government together with the SF, Radical, Danish People's Party and Christian Democrats, and on that basis the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503161413	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503161417	Oh, Minister, are we going to go down in history and feel its wingsus? We agree on an agreement where there is no funding for a particular part of what the government would like to do. Then you write into the agreement that there is a legal right to be able to do so, but only with retroactive effect, because you only have to find financing at some point because it is settled. In other words, it can only happen after, for example, a choice or if the conciliation parties are involved. Then some bourgeois parties say that this is no good, for it is holding some as hostages in a situation. The government says there's nothing to do about that and that they can't. So, after pressure and knowing that this motion for a resolution is coming, suddenly enough funding is being made for this somewhere else, so that it can actually be introduced with a guarantee. That's the true history of this. So if the government had just got a financing for this set-off somewhere else, we wouldn't have had this trouble and trouble at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503161510	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503161512	To be honest, I don't think it's bullshit. I regard this as some disagreements about some elements and that we look differently at a number of elements of our economy, including, among other things, the environment. cash benefits and other things. As I have said, the government always meets us in the Folketing when it is called and the parties of the Folketing want to deal with a motion for a resolution. But I also believe that Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen I heard that at least, right back when we dealt with the bill to abolish the set-off... have not yet made up for how to vote for the bill itself. That is how I heard it at least; it may well be that I heard it wrong. I understand if there are some TV viewers out there wondering why some resolutions are being tabled which require the government to put forward some legislative proposals that have just been dealt with. But all this is entirely legitimate within the framework of the people's regime, and we will of course take that along with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503161608	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503161609	Yes, but 1: Some of the elements have not yet been presented. After all, there has been no submission of own pension offsets. 2: After all, it was the government that began to say that the bourgeois keep the citizens out there hostage, because they do not agree with the funding presented by the government. There's just what they said: stop, hold, it's no longer going with the way to take these people hostage. Then we present something that guarantees the economy and ensures that they have a right to have it here from 1 January 2023. That's why you had this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503161649	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503161651	As a government, we have full respect for the fact that the parties that are part of, for example, the United Nations. The conciliation circle, in which the graduation allowance is covered, did not wish to allow it to enter into force in good time. We are puzzled by what we are upset about it, because what is basically a wish they have themselves, and if you do not like the elements on which the money is spent, then it is always a free choice if the majority changes, then to abolish those elements and spend the money on something else. But we fully respect it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503161730	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Møller of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503161743	Now we are standing again, we can say, and are about to deal with a proposal which reminds us of some of what we have discussed. I think that we from the Liberal Alliance were given an explanation as to why we should be in the situation that it may seem a little strange that we have just adopted what we would like to impose on the government. But basically, if you peel some of all of this from the fact that somewhere it is pleasing that you also among the bourgeois support very, very large parts of Denmark can more I·, even if you are not necessarily part of the agreement. However, it is clear that in the motion for a resolution there is an important part that is excluded, and this is about the part where we strengthen the cohesion and support for the Danish model of flexicurity. It's obvious that it can make me a little worried. The daily allowance system is such an important part of and an important leg in our flexicurity model. It's corporate flexibility to hire and guys. They are dependent on the fact that there is also financial security and security that employees can have in our benefit system. It is the case that if the benefit system is weakened, we are also in danger of weakening the flexibility of companies, and I think that when we look at the flexibility of companies, it has shown its strength, especially here in the Corona. What is essential in our social model, which I believe the bourgeois people misunderstand, is that, of course, there must be a gain in working. The whole of our welfare society depends on getting up and going to work; that we contribute what we each can. That's one of the things I've rounded up as a Social Democrat: Do your duty and demand your right. But it is the case that when companies can lay off employees, as order books become smaller, it is also fair that we as a society should stretch out a safety net so that ordinary employees do not experience a marked reduction in their income for a short period of time until they find a new job. If it is the case that the state or our cashiers do not guarantee that security, then there is a risk that it will be sought here in companies, and that will make companies less flexible and agile in cyclical fluctuations, which will weaken our competitiveness and weaken our welfare societies. It is, of course, one of the good pillars of the fact that we are not making these rigid legislations which bind employers to employees, but that we actually have this flexibility which allows us to hire and fire fairly quickly and fairly flexibly, but that, in return, we can ensure that there is a good safety net with a good daily allowance system. I would like to say from the Social Democrats that we have just dealt with a legislative proposal in which we like to put forward the things we have in the agreement that has been made, and that is why we cannot recommend the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162058	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's for sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162102	Thank you. Now it is both the rapporteur and the Minister who have highlighted my rapporteur's speech from the last point where I stressed that one of the reasons why we tabled the resolution before us was to avoid the false, lying accusations that we do not want to remove the set-off. It is as if it is now being used in a way that one thinks: Aha, now we have you, that is why you put the proposal forward. Yes, there were some disagreements that made it impossible for us to reach an agreement, but that disagreement did not go against the income of spouses, that is, what we were dealing with just now, but the Socialist spinning machine drove that bourgeois did not want to remove the set-off, although we would like to do so, and that is one of the reasons why we made that proposal. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur thinks that this is a good way of conducting politics, namely to accuse his political opponents of not wanting to do something that they would like to do, although one knows very well that one has just been in a debate where one is well aware that one actually agrees on that point and that there are some other points on which one disagrees.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162202	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162204	The question is asked in the same way as when the press asks whether you have stopped beating your wife, where you have to answer yes or no in connection with it. It is, of course, to acknowledge the premise that it is a pity for the bourgeois people in relation to the way in which the Social Democrats have acted in this matter, and there I think we look at things differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162224	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162226	I do not think it is a pity for us bourgeois to be accused of something that is factually wrong. We are accused that we do not want to remove the set-off, but factually it is the case that we want to do so, and so does the Social Democrats. It is not a pity for us, but it is perhaps a pity for the electorate and for democracy that they should be condemned by such things, and then it is just dishonest, I think. That is actually what I wanted to emphasise before. One should not feel sorry for us in any way whatsoever, but one should perhaps have one whose self - examination. I think I can reach one last question. When you look at the government's overall policy in relation to increased labour supply, it goes about zero, is it something that the rapporteur considers satisfactory?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162302	After all, I stand by the agreements that have been made in connection with this, and I also stand by the fact that we have made an early withdrawal, which I think is a good solution in structural terms in relation to the increase in retirement age. So, yes, I can accept living with the solutions that have been found.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162323	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162324	Now I was actually sitting in the room in the negotiations about Denmark can more and when it fell on it about the daily allowance, there were several solutions on the table. Because could this now be financed within an existing pool? We have a situation: the rapporteur says it himself, where we have record employment and record low unemployment. It's buzzing out there. That is the rapporteur's words, and perhaps the question should then be asked: could we have financed this, as we wanted, by shortening this period of unemployment benefit, which is now as long as two years old, at a time of recession? Could the rapporteur perhaps consider whether this could have been a solution rather than simply patching more money into the system, in other words financing it within the same system?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162425	Of course you can think about it. It is just not a solution that we think is good and right, and not one we have pointed out.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162430	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162431	That is also where the disagreement lies. Why is it that at a time when there is a demand for labour out there, people have to be able to walk around 2 years and 2 years on the daily allowance? Could it not have been changed so that they could go around one year and nine months in a boom, and thus have found funding for these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162459	Well, I don't know if it's the same question just formulated in a different way. When you ask if you could, I say, yes, of course you could. It's just not a solution we've chosen to point out. So we think that this length, which has been shaved off from 7 years to now 2 years, is very appropriate in the way we have arranged it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162515	Thank you very much to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, so the next rapporteur is Mr. Karsten Hønge from SF, who is allowed to stand on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503162530	I have to promise you that the right wing has been on a shopping trip in Denmark. The difference is that in Denmark you can see a balanced settlement. So it is as if something is missing when we look at the proposal that lies. What just happened to the effort for green conversion? What happened to the appropriations for education? Or should we not be able to agree more widely between the parties in these areas? I am not so surprised that the right wing does not support the regulated, organised and civilised labour market, including the fight against social dumping and a better and more secure benefit system. There was nothing new under the sun. I would say, on the other hand, that what we call the Danish model the labour market is simply brilliant. The security provided by the organised labour market is both private and public. It is the foundation for dynamism and flexibility. Because it is in the labour market that we finance the welfare society, both private and public. It is the goose that adds the eggs to the funding. I believe that we can see another advantage, which is too rarely taken forward in relation to having the organised and regulated labour market, namely that it is also the prerequisite for fair and equal competition between companies. But I think that the right wing has such an unnecessary primitive relationship with this so-called labour supply. It is as if you have these answers that the benefits should be reduced and that the cash benefits should be reduced and that you should go out and try to pollute the lives of such ordinary people so that they get so tired of everything, and then they will get into the labour market. We've tried it. We have quite specific experience of this on a large scale: when the ceiling for cash benefits was introduced some years ago, which hit 30,000 families and sent thousands of children below the poverty line, it got even on a good day when the sun shines and you have winds on all bike paths • 450 people at work. And then it is the question whether we got the 450 on at all, because a great many of them would have found their way into the labour market anyway, but let us say that I acknowledge it and say that okay, you could imagine that 450 entered the labour market not because they came into work but because they entered the labour market. There is no reasonable relationship between hitting 30,000 families and getting 450 into the labour market. On the other hand, we can look at the last 13 months where we have got 166,000 extra jobs in Denmark • 166,000 in 13 months • without a single deterioration. But what had gone up? That's what they had available jobs for. There were jobs available, and then we can see that people actually get to work, whereas if you just try to make people miserable like that, well, it doesn't actually help. Many people are still standing at the edge of the labour market to step in, but this requires training for the unemployed on the one hand, and this presupposes that we have companies that will actually open the doors to more types of employment. I think that we should simply decide that we will support an upgrade of our labour market to a new version, version 2.0, which is quite different spacious and accommodating to the fact that not everyone has to deliver 37 hours of full screw from day one. I just want to say that I can get some long ears from hearing employers and the right-wing shouting about the lack of hands. What is this degrading expression of qualified employees? When can you use the word hands about chief doctors and pilots and consultants, not to say political commentators? Then it's not hands you talk about, but apparently you do it here. There are a lot of people out there who would actually like to step in if there were otherwise possible to open up to it. So while I can get long ears from listening to the lack of labour, one can only see that we have 49 000 people with disabilities, for example, who would like to contribute. Probably not with 37 hours of full screw, but they'd like to contribute. We have 14 000 people on unemployment benefits who cannot find a flex job. We have 76 000 young people between the ages of 15 and 29 who do not have an education, are not in training or do not have a job, so there are a number of opportunities to get extra people into the labour market if companies are not aware of the doorsteps, and if we have to say on Monday, we are going to set up training planning in companies, both training planning in relation to learning young people and in relation to continuing adult and continuing training. There are the solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163031	Thank you very much. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Alex Vanopslagh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163035	Thank you. Sir. Karsten Hønge lacks some action in relation to the so-called organised labour market, in other words that we are fighting companies such as Wolt. It is true that we do not have that in our proposal. I would just like to highlight a tweet I will send it to the rapporteur afterwards by a young man named Valdemar Winther, who has published the salary he receives from Wolt. He put a screenshot out of his paycheck. He has worked 41⁄2 hours Sunday night and Monday night, and he has earned this $2,000. On. This means an average hourly wage of DKK 260. in the hour by being Wolt-bud. That's about twice what Just Eat's bids, who have an agreement with 3F, get. I just have to say: why on earth is it that the rapporteur would like to force more people like Valdemar to work at as low a salary as the one they get from a company that has an agreement with 3F instead of being able to get a higher salary by being Wolt-buds?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163127	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163129	It's a little hard to know if the good Valdemar has been lucky enough to have some good deliveries close to him so he could make some money, but every penny is gonna be spared him. I'm sure he's had a good lead on the pedals out there. The question of Wolt is not just a question of Wolt ^ it is also a question of 'com' and what is happening in the education sector, and I have heard that last week in Funen we are seeing it in the care sector, where we are outsourcing into several stages, and then we finally become so-called self-employed. As far as the self-employed are concerned, as for example at Wolt, everything they own is their bike, and otherwise, as an employee, you are completely stripped of rights. So on the subject of doing a smart leap action for the companies, where the real employer simply outsources responsibility for pay during illness, holiday money, pension, tax payments and all sorts of other things, not the way forward, although I know there may be trouble doing it the other way. This undermines our labour market and we have only bad experiences from abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163225	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163226	But what about the individual? Valdemar here would obviously rather be independent as a bid at Wolt than he would be an employee of a 3F agreement at Just Eat. Oh, my God. Karsten Hønge not to say honestly to people like Valdemar: That opportunity I will take from you? I don't think that business model should exist in the future, so you can get a job at Just Eat with a 3F deal, even if you'd prefer something else. I guess that's the consequence of sir. Karsten Hønge's politics. It's that people like Valdemar can't have what they really want.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163256	I am quite sure that Valdemar also very much wants to get paid during illness, that he would really like to have a pension payment, that he would like him to know when he is taking a holiday. All the rights of employees are something that needs to be established. We can just look at the countries where it has been lost, where it all ends up in outsourcing to subcontractors to subcontractors. The labour markets crumble and are split up into atoms in everyone's fight against everyone. This is not good either for Valdemar, for the labour market or for society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163323	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163327	It can then be said that in this situation it is something that Valdemar has chosen to opt out, because he would rather be self-employed, and that is the free choice. Otherwise, he could try to be an employee instead, but he has deliberately sought to be self-employed. Oh. I remember that the SF in the run-up to the elections said that this government that came now should ensure that there was less inequality in society. It was central, and it had to happen. Now we're three years old, and the inequality has increased under this government. Denmark can increase the inequality in society, which is now being praised. If you measure it, Mette Frederiksen is actually pr. year the Prime Minister of Denmark if you take both Thorning- and Løkkestyrelsen (the government of Thorning- and Løkkestyrelsen) which has increased the inequality most in society measured by the Gini coefficient. When is it that the SF starts to be honest with their voters and say what they have got after 3 years of SF as parliamentary basis? Yeah, they've got more inequality in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163417	Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen really that you are self-employed when everything you own is your bike and that you are subject to complete instructions from the company? On the contrary, the SF actually makes a suggestion that there should be a presumption rule. So, until proven otherwise, you're an employee. There are, after all, a lot out there that are real, regular, self-employed companies. It's absolutely perfect. But otherwise we believe that you should put it down on the labour market: If you cannot prove that you are self-employed, then you are an employee. A rule of presumption sounds kind of boring and somewhat legal. You can use it, just like we do when we determine animals. If you see duck that looks like a duck, walks like a duck and sounds like a duck, it's probably a duck. I think we should do the same in the future with regard to employees and self-employed people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163501	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163503	Yeah, I think I'm gonna use the same turn when we're looking at when there's people manipulating and telling the voters something that they don't get. In other words, if you cheat the electorate on your policy, you have cheated the electorate, and we just have to see that what the SF has been doing for three years now is cheating the electorate because you have created a society that is more unequal to what you said you would. You even add votes to a reform now that increases inequality in society. I just think that we should be honest with our socialist friends and voters that it is with the votes of the SF that we have actually increased inequality in society for three years now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163543	I actually thought, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen knew the explanation, but Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen obviously not, so now I'm going to give the explanation. In particular, there are two reasons why inequality has increased, but in each of their areas it is good to implement. One is the excise duty on cigarettes, which really helps to increase inequality, but which in turn helps to improve health in society. The second is that we released the holiday money, which, in isolation, increases inequality but which it is good to get out. These are the two main reasons. I actually thought that Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen knew, but he knows that from now on.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163611	The next question is Mr. Hans Andersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163615	Thank you. Just one question: the rapporteur said that it was important to get people on unemployment benefits in flex jobs. I would just like to ask whether it is not soon time for us to take the trip to the Minister after three years and belong to it. Before the elections, the Social Democratic Party at least proclaimed that it was now time to examine these reforms, which the Prime Minister himself was actually behind ten years ago; that it was time to change them so that we could adjust and ensure that the early and flexible job reform worked even better. The rapporteur just mentioned that many people were going to work, but they do not come from the fact that the rapporteur is talking about it. Perhaps it is more that we should put some action behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163709	Yeah, I'll have to give that in return, sir. Hans Andersen is right. Here from the platform in May 2018 we were agreed with each other that now we made an adjustment on the early retirement part of the reform, and then we expected that during the autumn 2018 we would look at the flex job part. We haven't gotten started yet. It is a slow pace that goes back to when the Left had the Employment Minister's seat, where Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen obviously had glue on his fingers and also on his chair, right? Because nothing happened. We are doing what we can to push our current Minister for Employment, and we do not always have the same luck with him. But we agree that we need to get this going. So we have to, and it can't be drawn anymore. What is one of the challenges is in relation to the 14 000 unemployment benefits. But there are also other challenges in the flex job part, in terms of retention in flex jobs and a number of other things. But I have heard from the Minister that he thinks it is very interesting and that he would like to work on it. We just need, really, to put it in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163813	Thank you. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163815	Then the rapporteur just got in touch with a criticism of the previous government, but it is the current government that can play the ball. I think there is a little bit of a long way to get it shot, because here it is all about getting people in and making sure that it pays better to work for those who are in flex jobs, it is actually 100,000, but also to get those who are on unemployment benefits into and into jobs. The question is whether we should do something together; I think that might be appropriate if we can do something before the Prime Minister issues elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163855	I can't do anything other than give Mr. Hans Andersen is right. We need to get that evaluation going and change the flex-job part of the reform going. As I said, we agreed in May 2018, when I was in here, and it hasn't happened yet. But that must be true, after I have told Jyllands-Posten. There I have at least claimed that I have rolled around several times over time and lit my clothes in rage over there in the Ministry of Employment, but it has been a long time since I have done so. It may be that I am about to resume tradition with it, because we have to get this going; we have to! Now I have to lie down and roll around.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163925	Thank you very much to the SF rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503163937	Thank you very much, President. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for B 138. It is a proposal which contains several elements of the reform agreement in which the Radical Left is involved. If we then cannot support this resolution, it is about the fact that when we support the individual elements, it is of course because it is part of a larger and comprehensive agreement that also focuses on massive investment in education and massive investment in the green transition. So we cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution here. I welcome from the Enhedslisten and say that they cannot support it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164023	Thank you, and a brief remark from Mr. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164026	Thank you. I would like to ask the radical rapporteur whether this is how the radical rapporteur thinks it is right that we should now raise the daily allowance, at a time when, in this way, we need it, I thought we had a common understanding of the parties between radicals and the Left to increase employment. In other words, the proposal to increase unemployment benefits reduces employment. So what does the Radical Left think, if the Radical Left is to be completely honest, about that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164059	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164101	If the Radical Left is to be completely honest about that proposal, then we have to go back to my speech from Amendment No L 173, namely that we believe that there should be a high level of support for the benefit system. And if those who finance the unemployment benefit system, that is, those who have low unemployment and the highest incomes, can no longer see the scam of being in an unemployment insurance fund, then we all have a problem. And that is why we think that raising the daily allowance for some in the first three months could be a good idea, but also in the context of the other elements of the overall reform agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164147	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164150	If I should take it down positively, I think that this is not a proposal on which the Radical Left strongly supports it. For the rapporteur used the word if, and said, if there was a tendency that people no longer supported around the cashier system, the benefit system, as a whole. But there isn't. There is broad, general support for it, and it is also to be welcomed by a Leftman. So that's why it's not there. And yet Radicals have agreed to raise the daily allowance now in a situation where we need people to get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164225	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164226	Well, that we need people to get to work, sir. Hans Andersen and I didn't disagree about. But we cannot wait for the departure from the benefit system to take place, because then the damage has been done. That is why we are leaning in the Radical Left, among others. In addition to the economists who point out that when the connection to the benefit system becomes far too low, technological developments are stalling. We do not think that should be the case in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164259	Thank you very much to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur, Mr Seligman, is Mr Seligman. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164312	Thank you very much for that, President. This resolution is a series of Conservative, Left, LA and NB proposals for reforms that can provide more labour. We have many more proposals than these, which can strengthen the Danish economy, but when we have chosen to put these proposals to the vote in the Assembly, it is because these are all things that the government itself has proposed and for which there should be a majority. When we negotiated a few months ago, the government told us that it would only vote in favour of its own proposals if, at the same time, we agreed to vote in favour of sending a lot of gifts to the trade unions, including a higher deduction of trade union quotas and a reduction in the deductions for private wage security. The government therefore believes that it is the task of the bourgeois parties to increase and secure the labour force for the Danish economy. It is not something the government wants of itself, but one will only vote for more labour if one is allowed to give gifts to one's sponsors in the trade union movement. The government will try to tell people that it is our fault that the set-off for pensioners will not be abolished, but we do not impose any condition for doing so. We are ready to abolish set-off, and we do not come and demand, while at the same time we will have a lot of bourgeois brands and gifts for our sponsors. We are in favour of abolishing the set-off, which is why we are now putting it to the vote, and it is sad that the government intends to vote against and prevent it. After all, the government stopped negotiating to get more labour before it had an agreement. None of us, the bourgeois, remembers that a government has previously been seen standing up and holding a press conference to tell us that a number of parties have made an agreement for which they do not, however, have a majority. And since then, we haven't heard anything. We have repeatedly called on the government to relaunch the negotiations, but that does not happen. And, of course, we are very concerned and annoyed about that. That's why we're wearing B 138 today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164509	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164527	Thank you for that, President. Well, a number of people have also told us what this proposal is really about. After all, we have had a few legislative proposals in the past, some of which are in any case included, but I can see that, when you look at the proposal here, there are elements that go back to the two legislative proposals, which are at least going to happen. One thing that is also involved is that, in connection with the previous legislative proposals, we are also lowering the electricity tax by 17 cents up to 2030. Now it does not say right here what it should be, but there I would just like to say that although we share that agreement, we would like to join in if there are others who would like to be involved in pushing it so that we could push it forward a little. There is no doubt that if you look at the electricity tax in isolation, it is one of the things that will make it cheaper to be a Dane. If you care a lot about the social distribution, then the electricity tax is in dollars and cents, and whether you are rich or poor, then you use something almost the same in electricity. So if we could talk more about putting down the electricity tax, then it will actually hit socialally quite right. For those who have low incomes, they will have the same tax rebate as those with high incomes in tax rebates. So I'm actually thinking there might be some ramashang in it. At any rate, we agree with the whole bourgeois bloc about putting pressure on that. And if you are a social democrat or a socialist, you must also be interested in being able to make some policy which is also socially correct. So I'm reading this proposal like there's something to work on, especially in relation to the electricity tax. So thank you for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164716	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164724	Before the elections, there were virtually no limits to how the left could attack bourgeois parties and anyone who came near having had any power in Denmark, i.e. because they had created this great inequality in society, despite being one of the most equal societies in the world. Now we are here three years after the SF and Enhedslisten have been parliamentary basis for a government, and what is the result? The result is that the inequality in the way we measure it has increased. Now we are dealing with some reforms, some resolutions, which also increase inequality. But vupti, now suddenly it doesn't matter to SF, because now you're in a deal yourself, and then it doesn't matter that inequality increases in society. In a sense it is actually extremely liberating, because then it may be that once and for all we can put the debate on inequality in the way that it has been debated on the left side into the grave. Because let's take a look at the fact. The fact is that the current government led by Mette Frederiksen with support from SF and support from Enhedslisten has increased inequality by what overall corresponds to 0.22 on the Gini coefficient. Measured by year, it is actually more than the inequality rose during the Løkke government. Funny enough we don't hear the big slogans from the trade union movement right now... it's gonna come if power changes again... and funny enough the big slogans from the left are also gone. Because now is the time for the left to be responsible and to add votes to the things that increase inequality. The latest reform, Denmark can do more, also increases inequality in society, despite what Mr. Karsten Hønge thinks it does. In fact, it does, mainly because you remove the green check. So let's kill this unbearable debate on inequality once and for all, because after all, it's the left wing right now who is adding votes to the increase in inequality most in society, and it's obviously not against that. It's probably just because it's not the right inequality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503164948	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Hans Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503165006	Thank you. The lack of qualified labour challenges Danish growth and prosperity. Everywhere in the country, companies have to say no to orders because they lack hands and heads, talented people. New figures from Statistics Denmark show that four out of ten companies see the shortage of labour as the biggest obstacle to growth. At the same time, Denmark faces a very great challenge with rising energy prices and the need for more electrification of society. All these elements are serious and call for immediate political action. Unfortunately, the government has chosen to conclude a reform agreement for the Danish economy back in January. It is an agreement that neither the Left, the Conservatives, the Liberals nor the New Citizens are involved in. It is an agreement which, according to the government, is to resolve the acute shortage of labour in Denmark. And that must be said to be a truth with modifications, since the government's agreement in isolation will only increase structural employment by 12 000 full-time people when we look forward. This happens after the government has reduced structural employment by just over 10,000. I mean, it doesn't go anywhere in terms of the challenges we are facing right now, tomorrow and forward-looking. As I have said, the government wants to raise the daily allowance rate so much that 140,000 people who go to work every day will earn less than other people who are on unemployment benefits. This will weaken the incentive to take a job. On the other hand, it is crucial for the Left that it should pay off to work. The Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the New Citizens' Party are ready to take responsibility and to implement measures that actually increase the supply of labour, and that is why we have joined together on this resolution, which we have now considered, on a new reform package for the Danish economy, which must contain many sensible measures; several of these measures, in fact, are also included in their proposals and agreements. It is a question of reducing the graduation rate, increasing the maximum employment allowance, increasing the sum of allowances, removing the set-off, abolishing the green cheque for non-pensioners and increasing the additional green cheque for children, lowering the electricity tax and putting the reserve in the North Sea agreement. With these measures, we are actually increasing the total supply of labour by over 13,000 full-time people. It's more than in the agreement called "Denmark" can more In Denmark you could also call it "Denmark" can less I. But we will also be delivering a surplus on the financial account of the state when we look forward. The proposers, the parties behind them, hope, as I said, that the government will look to our side and take responsibility and implement the necessary measures. I shall just try to pick up a little from today's debate. The government and the Social Democratic Party are stubbornly holding to an increase in the daily allowance so that working can no longer pay so much. That is simply, we must understand, one of the cornerstones of the agreement that has been made so that it cannot be shaken. SF is concerned that there will be more money for cash benefits recipients and benefit recipients. It is then only the one element that will be taken into account in the agreement with SF. I tried to ask the Radical Left to do so, but I understand that being part of a comprehensive agreement is a heavy burden, so you have to live with the fact that the benefits are being increased. The Danish People's Party wanted the electricity tax to be reduced. We are in complete agreement with the Danish People's Party in this, but my call to the Danish People's Party is that you may have to find your way back home and not enter into agreements with a government that raises the daily allowance. Overall, I have to say that the proposers, the Conservative People's Party, the New Civil, Liberal Alliance and the Left, are behind this new reform package for the Danish economy and, with these proposals, we want to increase labour supply by 13 000, and this is a contribution to ensuring continued growth and prosperity and thus also the conditions for welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503165458	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503165501	After all, the fact that there is a shortage of people in companies is an absolutely fantastic glorious situation. It can really help you to think. I'm just gonna ask sir. Hans Andersen, about Mr. Hans Andersen acknowledges the many different studies that show that there is systematic discrimination against +50-year-olds. The companies say that, after 45 years of age, you have to write out of history. This is the one, in other words, systematic discrimination against people who have passed the 45-50 years. The second is about this, which I really think can be true enough, that you say to the young people: you must take the work that is; you must not be so picky; it is no use that you go and wait for the dream job; you must take the jobs that are. But would it not be fair to send the same message to employers and say: do not just sit there and wait for dream candidates to come, but hire the unemployed and prepare them for the jobs you have and open up businesses?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503165552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503165554	I fully agree with the latter. In fact, I believe that companies are ready for this. I believe that at the moment it is a question of just being able to employ some people, and the companies are in fact very satisfied. Then there are a lot of companies who say that they will be responsible for training. On the subject of systematic discrimination: it is not legal, and I have a clear expectation that companies will comply with the law and thus not carry out systematic discrimination. So I do not share the view that this is being done systematically, because it is a breach of the law, and we cannot do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503165633	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503165635	Firstly, there are several studies which show that this is actually what is going on. Secondly, there are employers who say that they need more people: I would like to hear Mr. Hans Andersen's reflections on the experience that I had some time ago, where I visited the voluntary organisation called Senior Business Svendborg. So it's a seniors' association that's available. They held an open house in Svendborg, where they showed up with a lot of people with a lot of CVs, and then they simply invited the employers to come down to this room in the middle of Svendborg. How many employers showed up from all over the South Funen area? Zero employers no public employers and no private employers. So you might be able to turn down the jam a little bit and do something more in the companies, both public and private!
ParlaMint-DK_20220503165722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503165723	The Left strongly supports Senior Business as an organization. We have also helped them to continue financing so that they can carry out the work they are doing, which they are doing very well. We must support that. I do not know the specific situation, but my call to employers is that this is not the time for them to be discerning. It's right now that they have to invite people in and give them a job. We need even more sheep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503165750	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503165802	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Joel of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503165828	Thank you, President. How nice it is to stand here today and have to deal with something that really means a lot in our common school, but which has also been really, really debated and really, really controversial over the past many years, and it is, of course, about how we basically ensure, measure and assess that our children and young people get out of school with the skills they need to move on in life, to move on in the education system, and unfortunately we do not know that is the case for everyone, and therefore we need to keep a systematic eye on how things are going. On the other hand, we have also seen that the national tests we have had so far have been too bad to show us. We may have had an overview of the overall situation, but it has been too difficult for teachers to use it in teaching, and it has been too difficult for parents to understand what was taken down from it. Therefore, finding a new evaluation and assessment system for our primary school was, in fact, the first test of the cooperation that the Minister and the government have put themselves in the lead, but which also includes the conciliation parties, namely what we call "Sammen om skole', and all those who do school in everyday life have been aware of and discussed how we can really make sure that we get tests, whether children and young people learn what they should, in a way that makes sense for the teachers, for the pupils and for us who follow and care about the public school from outside. That is why I am very pleased that we have made a broad agreement on the back of the very large preparatory work, which we also have good reason to thank the partners in the school together for, where we are now doing the national skill tests of the primary school, which are tests that are not adaptive, but linear, so that they are not all different and conform to the student's level, but that they are such a firm in a progression. Secondly, they lie at the beginning of the school year, so that they are less perceived as an exam, you can say, but a question of where to put in, what it is that we have problems with in our class, how to design the next school year, so that we have fewer people who are behind on points when we reach the end, and how to clarify that what we measure is not the whole subject or everything you can at school, but some basic skills in mathematics and in reading, which are absolutely, key skills in order, moreover, to master the other subjects in primary school. There are also a number of other things in this agreement that are really good, among others. the fact that we are now abolishing that stamp, it has been called, the term, the division of young people, where some should be non-educational. And it is a political signal that actually moves something, that they say that it is not an option to say to people that you are not ready for education, but that the task is to find out what you are ready for, and there we have also asked some experts to prepare the finer details. However, we have said from the political point of view that the objective is that no young people should be told that they are not ready, but that they should know what they are prepared for, and I think that this is a good agreement that strikes a balance between what is important for us as politicians, what is important for pupils and parents, namely that we learn what we need and what we need and what makes sense for teachers, because they can actually see who is in the class who has problems where, and then put in with the targeted education that they are the only ones who can really give. Of course, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503170231	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mai Mercado. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503170234	Thank you, and thank you so much for your speech. You can really feel this fire in your eyes, and it also shows very well how much this has meant for all of us who have been involved in this negotiation process about making a really good deal. So I'm actually just gonna sign for the deal and say thank you. We put it on the table that we should not do anything in relation to the highly gifted ones, but sometimes in negotiations one can see that oh, then there are many things that cannot be done. And then Social Democracy actually grabbed the ball right from the start, and I would actually like to sign for that. So thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503170307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503170309	Thank you. The concrete first: that's right. And it was important that there were some who kind of had an obs-point on it. So thank you for including me. Conservatives took it to the table. You can say that one thing in this agreement I didn't get to mention is to focus on those we need to discover quickly, namely the dyslexic ones. Some of them have the challenges. That is where we have to do much earlier, so we are doing much more systematically now. In this context, however, it was very important that the Conservatives also said that there are some who are very good with professionalism, but who actually still feel uncomfortable, outside, wrong in the school context. So the receipt goes the other way. And yes, this is an example of how you can actually have a lot of consideration for meeting when you go constructively into it and think that it is the school's consideration that needs to be given more weight than different tricks and discussions and things like that. So we have taken into account the children and the school. It's been a good run.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503170400	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503170409	Thank you for the floor, President. The primary task of the Folkeskole is to form and train and thus also remember to help all pupils, regardless of their background and professional level, well on their way to life so that they can achieve the full potential. Therefore, a strong professional and pedagogically well-functioning evaluation and assessment culture is also essential in order to be able to keep up with professional development, and it is very important that this way you can also contribute to managing the primary school. That was the background to the introduction of the national tests, and it is also the starting point for this broad political agreement on guaranteeing the future of the evaluation and evaluation system, which we are discussing with this draft law today. The national tests have been the subject of a great deal of attention and a great many discussions over the years. I believe that all of us who are in the Chamber today agree with that. The evaluation of the national tests also showed that there was room for improvement. There is also when we discuss how we promise, support and evaluate students' professional level and development. Therefore, it is also very good that after a long negotiation process and good involvement of all the school's players, we got the country a broad agreement which means that in future we will have a more transparent and usable test system so that we can better monitor the professional development of the pupils and identify where there is development potential. All in all, the new system will ensure that teachers, pupils and, hopefully, parents can use the national tests better in future than they do today. In the Left we are concerned that all children and young people must become as skilled as possible to achieve their dreams for life. There are still too many unfortunate examples of pupils with, for example: dyslexia or for that matter highly gifted students are discovered too late. And that means they are not getting the help they need, nor are they getting the challenges they need. That is why we in the Left are very pleased that we have fought in, that we, for example, have fought in. ensure that the detection of dyslexia is strengthened in the future. This is in line with the many efforts we actually made when we led the country in the Left Government. The talents and the talents are also a positive focus, and thanks also to the other blue parties and the Radical Left for helping to fight that battle at the table. For those students, too, need special efforts and tests of high talent, so that we can ensure that their professional potential is seen, instead of the students running the risk of fading and, for that matter, may end up being bullied because they are not facing the right challenges. We are now getting a special focus on the most talented students with screening and testing of highly talented students. It is important that we ensure that all students come with us. In fact, the part about dyslexia is also important. We must ensure that they also actually receive the help they need afterwards, otherwise we will be in the same position. If we're going to bring everyone along, it's important that we don't just go for the lowest common denominator or the average. On the other hand, we need a differentiated approach and help the individual child. For this reason, we have repeatedly appealed to restore the talent effort that we actually introduced into the VLAK government. The Socialist Government did not want to participate in this, but at least now we have taken a step in relation to the way in which the test system is going forward. In conclusion, I would like to point out that it is very positive that we have finally changed the qualification assessment so that the term 'non-training' disappears completely. After all, we know that all young people and all children have something positive that can be built on, and that is why everyone is ready for something. In those words, I think there is only one thing left to say: of course we support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503170904	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503170920	Thank you for the floor. It is indeed an historic day, and it was the day when we reached agreement on a new evaluation and evaluation system by a broad majority. It was one of my first agreements, in fact exactly the first agreement in the field of children and education. It is an agreement that has abolished the marking of non-education and puts the children and pupils first, and which we hope will be able to see take the first step towards getting rid of the growing distrust and performance race that is at school and among too many of our children and young people. I am glad that we in the SF have pressed for the end of the young people's feeling that they are failing in professional, personal and social conditions. But that's not the only good thing. We also abolish student plans and quality reports and leave it up to the teachers and managers to come up with something that actually makes sense in cooperation with the children. In fact, we are giving teachers and managers the opportunity to use their professional skills again, and at least that is what is needed. When we then also change the national tests, we should not be tested in all sorts of classes; we should be tested at the beginning of the year and not later, because we have also changed the way we test, because the way we tested in the national tests was one of the things that pressed really, very much. There are many good elements in this agreement, but most importantly, I think it is that we are now taking a good and important step together away from the performance pressure that students are experiencing. And together is also a key word for us when it comes to this deal. It is both a broad agreement, but it is also an agreement that we have made in close cooperation in the working group we call Together about the school, which are organisations in the field. And I think that's really, really important. One of the criticisms we have received in the field of school is that we have not listened well enough to the pupils, teachers, educators, managers and parents, and in particular we have done so in this agreement. Now that we are removing the non-educational readiness assessment, we are also saying that all young people are ready for something, and it is just that we need to find out what it is. If it was SF alone, we'd have gone even further. We had cut down more on the number of tests, especially for the youngest. For this reason, I also hope that this can be the first step towards trying to think about schools and that we can try to experiment even more. We also have that as part of our agreement. But we would also like to set schools more free from some of these procedural requirements. In those words, of course, we support the draft law in the SF. We want to put an end to the growing distrust, and with this proposal we are beginning to slow down a little in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503171226	Thank you very much to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503171237	Thank you. With this bill, we are abolishing the old national tests, which we have discussed a great deal with each other and which we in the Radical Left have over all the years considered meaningless, and therefore it means a great deal to me. I think we have come a good step away from the fact that the new tests that we have agreed jointly are at the beginning of the school year are going to be linear, and above all that we are narrowing in what we are testing in so that in no way can it be used to say anything about what pupils can do or how schools are doing, because it is all about reading and mathematical skills. I think it makes very good sense that we have been inspired by some of the tests already used by teachers, namely OS64 and OS120, which are such reading tests that are already being used by many first-class teachers. Therefore, it is also quite important to me in the work that is now beginning to develop the new tests that they will then actually become meaningful to teachers, just as the reading tests are today. This does not, of course, change the fact that there is a difference between whether it is only an educational test which one learns to choose for oneself or whether it is something that has been imposed by some politicians and thus part of the management at school. The Minister usually puts it in such a way that we should try to make some agreements where we can see ourselves in the 80%, because if we can all do so, we meet in a good compromise. And this is one of the places where we in the Radical Left think that there are simply too many tests, and I have a concern that the fact that there will still be ten, or if you count them up, a little more national tests, will still mean that there will be a reduction in the educational space and that it will still be more governing for the school than we would have liked to have seen. In the Radical Left we would like to join in, as we are all talking about freedom in the Folketing here, that we could also take a little more on what seriously narrows freedom and the educational space at school, that is, what is about tests and exams. But you know that, I said that in the negotiations too, and that is why I am also glad that we managed to agree to volunteer the voluntary tests, so that it is now the case that there are virtually no schools that can be required to do all the voluntary tests, and that means a lot to me. I will follow closely the fact that the agreement here also provides for the real abolition of student plans. This is also part of what the Radical Left has been working for for many years. And yesterday I was with a school manager who told them that they have already been informed by the administration that these new message books could just drive inside the platform in the same way as the student plans had done, where the teachers can then click off different things. Therefore, I would like to say here from the speaking chair of the Danish Parliament that it is therefore the teachers who have to choose what they want to write about the individual student and how they want to do it. So if they want to do it in a book like I did when I was in school, they can do it. So no one can force them down from above. And I think we have a job to do in here. It also means a lot to me that with the bill here we are abolishing the stamp of non-educational staff. I would also have liked us to have gone further and could have done so more quickly, because the important thing is, of course, the whole change that should lie downstairs, so that it is not just a matter of not getting the stamp, but that we are really going to make a plan that for all students points towards what they want and not feel like this stamp where you were told you could not. That's why I just want to finish off with a good story, because a few days ago I talked to a mother who had just talked to the headmaster at their school about how we would now help their son, who is highly gifted. And they're at this school studying and learning and finding out what would be a good approach for them to the highly gifted children. It just made me so happy to hear, because I think that sometimes, as a politician, you can get that feeling that things are going so infinitely slow and that what we are doing is really moving something. And when you hear from a mother that the school is in the process of examining how we actually help highly gifted children better, I am just so happy, because that means that the stones we throw from here will be rings in the water, which can be felt by the individual children. The Radical Left therefore supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503171744	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503171753	The criticism has almost constantly hacked down on the national tests since they were introduced and put into effect in the primary school more than 15 years ago. From teachers and many researchers there has been a clear announcement ever since the tests were introduced that they were not useful as a pedagogical tool and that they helped to promote a teaching to the test culture in primary school. It has not, of course, eased the criticism along the way that it was repeatedly shown that the tests were imprecise or even quite wrong. It is very good that we in the Enhedslisten have been listening to the criticism, even though it may have been a long time in the process, and that the bill has addressed a process of change in relation to the use of tests in the primary school. At the same time, it is very positive that the changes contained in the proposal here have been prepared following a thorough dialogue with the school partners; a process in which I must admit that Enhedslisten has not been closely involved because, as you know, we chose not to be part of the agreement on the reform of primary schools in 2013 and therefore so far are outside the conciliation circle. We believe that the proposed changes are a step in the right direction. Elements of other rapporteurs have been mentioned, but I repeat, because I think it is important that it is right that the adaptive tests should be abolished with this proposal. It is good that we limit the tests to reading and mathematics, and it is very good that the tests are now placed first in the school year and, as already mentioned, I consider it absolutely crucial that the drafting of the new rules has taken place in close dialogue with the school partners, who are ultimately the ones who have to put it into practice. I would also like to say that we have noticed, however, that there is considerable criticism of the proposal both from some practitioners and from some of the researchers who over the years have been tough in their criticism of the current test system. The extent to which the tests can be used as an educational tool is questioned and some doubts are expressed as to whether the tests can still be driving in a teaching to the test culture. I think this is a concern that should be taken very seriously, and that is why I think it is extremely wise that the legislative notes place emphasis on the fact that the development and implementation of the new skill tests will take place in dialogue with the school partners and professional experts. In relation to the other elements of the draft law, it is positive that efforts to identify pupils with difficulties in reading early in the process should be stepped up so that the right support can be given quickly. We think it is very good that pupils' plans should be abolished in favour of a communication book and that the quality reports should be replaced by an obligation for an annual school development conversation between the municipality and the individual school. That, in our opinion, makes very good sense. We also think that it is positive that the concept of non-educational preparation should be abolished, although it should not be a secret here, that we would have liked to have seen a more thorough approach to the whole problem of counselling and that we had ensured in this process that all pupils were given the right to individual guidance. All in all, in other words, we would have liked the proposal to be somewhat more far-reaching, especially with regard to the changes to the test system, but at the same time we would like to say very clearly that we think this is a step in the right direction. We hope that the dialogue with the school partners and the professional experts will take account of the criticism of the proposal that has been made here, so that we are not now running straight towards a wall again, but that we are reaching out positively to those who think it could have been done differently. And then I think that with the dialogue that will now take place, from the time we adopt the legislative proposal here until it is put into practice, we will be able to correct further the national tests that we are fortunately leaving with the proposal here. We are very happy to participate in that dialogue, and Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503172250	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mai Mercado of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503172302	Thank you. There are some who say that politicians always argue, that we always disagree and that we always have to find the hair in the soup. But the bill we are discussing today is actually based on a political agreement where we really found each other. And I still remember the press conference where we had Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party, who quite fluffy said that this is really a good deal, because it is going to have so much importance for so many students and is based on a real basis, a solid and well worked basis. And I actually think we can be proud of that, because we have actually made the national tests much more useful than they were, in terms of making them educationally useful, in terms of ensuring that teachers can provide feedback directly to students, that they can be used locally, and that it is not only intended as a tool for measuring how things are going across municipalities and across parts of the country, but that they can be used locally. It is also the case that the tests are now being carried out at the beginning of the school year, so that you do not have to worry about whether it is a teaching to the test, but that it is too curious to have the students examined where they are, in order to put in, so that they pick up exactly what they need in each school year. And then there's the thing about "A" and it was a source of discussion, we have to say what tests we should have. But the fact that we are now testing in reading and mathematical skills, which are, like, fundamental to learning, we could actually meet about, and that is also some of what we are really happy about in the Conservative People's Party. We are no longer going to use the concept of non-training. I think that we were all at that stage in the negotiations. And then I think it's quite fantastic that we get in touch with dyslexia early. We know that this is a huge challenge, and everyone has heard the different stories about pupils who have been far up in the oldest classes in primary school before dyslexia was discovered. One of the things we have been most fond of and concerned about is that we not only have a systematic effort made in relation to those who are most challenged professionally, but that we actually have the same work done in relation to those who are highly gifted. The fact that for the first time we have created a structure and put it in a frame, that the highly gifted also have to be challenged, that they also have to be discovered, and that there is a difference between high performance and high talent, we are really, really happy about. I just want to thank you for the reception that we saw during the negotiations when we launched it as a proposal. Then I think that some of the absolutely important thing is that everyone should not make these quality reports, which by God have been a huge paper tiger, and I would venture to claim that very few city councils have taken the solid, in-depth discussions, which were actually the idea of the quality reports. So we have abolished them and, instead of ensuring that we have a fine and good and precise follow-up to those schools that do not have satisfactory and sufficient quality. That is certainly a good way forward. Finally, I would just like to say a great deal of thanks for the cooperation to all those who have been with us from the parties, but actually also mention the whole partnership we have had in the school together, i.e. with the Danish Teacher Association, the School Leader Association, Danish School Students and the Parents' Land Organisation. This has certainly been a very, very good cooperation. And with those words and with great pleasure, I can say that the Conservative People's Party intends to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503172722	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then we should welcome the rapporteur of the DF. Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503172741	Thank you, President. A wise man wrote to me a few days ago: Education leads to education. And one might add: good education leads to good education. The good teacher uses tests, of course. It is almost indispensable to lead to good education and thus to good education. The countries and school systems that do well also use tests; we know that. Now it is established in Denmark with seven-inch nails that we want tests. A broad majority, a broad circle in the public school circle and even the school partners support it, and the latter is almost the most important, for then the civil war in the education sector is cancelled. At the request of the Minister, and I would like to thank him once again, we have had the great pleasure of talking to the school partners about this, and they have also offered to improve the proposal and the agreement drawn up by the government's ministry, which we have all contributed to improving. It has simply been a great pleasure to work with the school partners. It is a pleasure to cooperate with my colleagues in the conciliation circle, to cooperate with the Minister and, above all, to cooperate with my fellow citizens. I just thought it was a pleasure. I think that we, and those are colleagues from the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Left, have found each other. We didn't do that in 2013; it was very difficult. But we have found each other now, and that citizen just for a good start in the years to come. The most important thing for me, and I would like to stress this again, is that we are now more or less agreed that tests are necessary in a good school, and we have been sensible enough to change the tests, as the school's partners have wanted them to do, so that, for example, they do. is linear, because the adaptive did not work, so we test in e.g. Danish and mathematics, so we also get the opportunity for voluntary tests in a number of subjects, so we get tests for dyslexia and of highly gifted children etc. etc. Well, it's a good deal, and if you're finally going to emphasise it, I hope that this will continue as well, when I and others are no longer in the Folketing at some point... that we will continue this good cooperation with the school partners. It has been difficult years since 2013, and I would like to say that the Social Democrats contributed to the civil war, but I would say that you have called off the civil war and it is to your credit. One has learned from the mistakes, and that benefits all of us, and then one can only hope that it continues. We do not know, but it is so important for our children that there is something about, I do not want to say consensus, but at least support for the way we do school in Denmark. The good example is Finland. Finland has been listening for many years to the expertise and to the school's partners, which has been a broad cooperation, also politically, and this has only led to the fact that the primary school in Finland is a good school based on objectivity and scientificity, but also on tests, on character and on a well-trained teacher's stand. The last thing we should have looked at at at some point, and there are many possibilities. But thank you again for this cooperation. That is one of the things I will be happy to look back on if I am not re-elected here in the spring of 2023 or when it will come. But I would say, at least, that this is the star hour of the people's regime. I really hope that we can continue the good cooperation. Thank you. This is a great pleasure for me as a parliamentary politician.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503173216	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen for the rapporteur's speech and for the prophecy. There are no brief comments. And since I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber immediately, we must welcome the Minister. Here you go, the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503173234	Thank you for that, and thank you for all the good speeches. I just told one of you on your way up here that this should take five hours and not the short time it takes. Now I've brought the whole pile of papers up here. After all, it is a huge complex that we are dealing with here, which covers a great many different things. It's just like Mr. Knox. Alex Ahrendtsen says so, and thank you very much for the very fine words about the origin of this. This complex we are discussing today is, in my opinion, the test of whether we could achieve peace around primary school. Therefore, this proposal is very much more than all the papers that are here. It is the end of many years of painful war on primary school. When I was appointed Minister, my first experience was the discussion about national tests and the evaluation system, and people shouted at each other. When I laugh a little, it's because it's usually an incredibly civilized bunch dealing with education policy. So it is not, and fortunately for that, such populism and the scratch-brush something that stands for first. There is, in fact, an incredibly large amount of thoughtfulness and propriety and respect for each other and all sorts of other things, which means that experiencing such a high level of conflict was a little bit shocking. Respect is so incredibly important. You can always discuss this here with when to use the majority that has been given by the people in connection with an election and when not to do so. And when it is incredibly important to me that there is no war on primary school, it is because in primary school all our children go. In primary school there are children of parents who think that testing is something a certain gentleman has created, i.e. God damn it, but I don't think I have to say that, because I actually think it's a swear word, so I won't say that. So there are children of parents who have the perception of tests, and then there are children of parents who love tests and exams and grades. And then there are all those with all the nuances sometimes. All children attend primary school. We all need to be able to see ourselves in that primary school. We must all be able to send our children to primary school and be comfortable with the way the school grabs children and young people, with the very wide differences of opinion that exist in a parental circle around it and in our society. It is from this that the 80-percent concept mentioned by Mrs Lotte Rod comes. I have a guide which states that if we make agreements, all parties and all parties around the school must be able to see themselves in 80%. of the agreement. So it is different 80 per cent, i.e. whether you like it or not. is Mrs. Lotte Rod or Mr. Lotte Rod? Alex Ahrendtsen. It will be different 80%. So the 20% where you disagree are different. But if you can each see yourself in 80%, then we have created a primary school where all our children can go and where all parents will be able to see themselves in it. There, parents will certainly disagree with 20%. of what's going on. And that is how it is when we have primary school as the foundation of a trust-based society, where we have to get to know each other cross and cross the differences of opinion that exist. I mean, we've hit it really well with this. In my political life is one of the proudest moments when we, the parties of the Danish Parliament, stood together about •Together about the school with the parties around the school and presented the political agreement, because it ended a lot of years of war about the school, but also because, in my opinion, it is a very good content we have got done here. And I very much agree with Mrs Mai Mercado. Mrs Mai Mercado now mentions the whole section on highly gifted children, where we use one of the most powerful tools. Because where you really get that question moved is when you come to decide in every classroom what it is for children and that you do it very early in school. What kind of kids have this in their luggage and therefore need to be discovered early? And that is helpful because on many stretches it is a positive problem until it becomes the opposite because you have not received the help you need. I think that is an example of something in this agreement... you could mention several other chapters... where some have invited in and said that we need to do something about that. I think it is the people's regime at its best, in other words where you can offer in with the things you are passionate about, and then we can find common solutions to it, instead of patting each other's areas down. I am passionate about dyslexia, which means that I have announced that once a year I will bring something new in relation to dyslexia. This is one of the things that comes in relation to dyslexia, and it's actually DSU's merit. Because it is now soon the former Chairman of the DSU, Mr. Frederik Vad, who brought it in to me, namely that it would be a good idea with screening tests. So we bring something to the table, each with our own background. And where we do both instead of not doing either, is actually where I think things are best. That's where I think we've found each other in a really good way about this. Then, in relation to the tests, I would say that we are going in and replacing the national tests with the new skill tests, that I almost believe that what is most important is precisely to have found the balance. For that is what was actually the problem with the national tests: the balance was not found between the different considerations which must necessarily be around testing. There is a social concern that we need to know that the school is doing well, that is to say the school as a single institution. Then parents also have the right to have an insight into how their children are doing in school. And then there is a pedagogical consideration that is about teachers both being able to see the meaning of it and also being able to apply the tests used in school. The balance had been lost with the old national tests, where I believe that with the new tests we will find a completely different place, and that is because we have listened to the teachers, who have very clearly said that the vast majority of teachers are still testing in reading skills and in basic mathematical skills. And that's the most important thing to keep up with, because that's what's playing on all other subjects. No matter what you do at school, it is important that you can read and that you have the basic skills in mathematics. In other words, we can see very well politically how the school is doing in society. And that means we found some new twists into what I think is smart for the school. Then there has been the consideration that parents have not been able to see through what their children have actually been tested in. The tasks have not been available; it has not been more transparent what this adaptive principle was about. It has also been very difficult for the students to understand what they were actually tested in. There, I believe, with the abolition of the adaptive principle, we are getting very far on that agenda. So I think we will find some compromises here in the way of going about it, which means that we have a completely different playing field than with the old tests. For me, abolishing the concept of non-training is an independent pleasure. That's the biggest thorn in the eye. In other words, we are talking about a society that has education on all shelves and, by the way, has a labour market that is also very good at accommodating young people who come out on it if they do so early. How, then, can we say that some are not ready? So, we have the 10th class, we have a hundred different vocational training courses, we have the htx, we have the fucking, we have specially organized youth education. We simply have education on every conceivable shelf in this society. And then we allow ourselves to measure the young people up against such a small section of the education that a very large proportion of the 8th class, a slightly smaller share, but still a very large proportion of the 9th class gets stamped: not educationally prepared. I simply do not think we can be familiar with young people. And if we wonder why so much of them are miserable, then this isn't the whole secret, but it's at least part of the secret it's part of the secret. The thing about putting such a stamp on the forehead of someone in the eighth grade and later in the ninth grade is not okay. I think that this is something that young people can remember for the rest of their lives: the time when they were told that they were not ready for training. It's not gonna work. And that's one of the things we're finally getting rid of with the deal we've made, where of course you have to look at a young person and look at what potentials it has. Even the few who do not have to go on in the education system are ready for something. Then you're ready to get to work. And there must be as much pride about that as there must be around those who go further in the education system. If we get away with the concept of non-educational preparation, it is the opposite that we get away with in life and in our youth life, namely that the political system and society have declared a non-ready, thus giving a negative stamp in life. So it is not going to work, and that is why I am extremely glad that we are moving forward with that part. Then we will have a lot of the control tools that have been squandered over the school over the past many years. These are some that most individuals never encounter, but they do work in the school sector. I am very pleased that the principles of governance are being put in place and that we will have them abolished and put into practice what I have called a 90/10 management. That is to say, when it comes to the 90% that actually do things very well, we sit back and let them do their job, because they are actually better than we are, and when it comes to the 10%, where it does not go well and whether it is 90/10, or it is 92/8, or whatever it is, it is not important, you have to see it in the rough, we lean considerably heavier over the table and insist that all children have earned proper schooling, and therefore there must be a proper school offer. The better balance I think we have found here, where the last 20 years of school policy has been that all rules should apply to everyone, whether they did well or not and as a major nuisance to those who work with the school in everyday life. I think it would be much more sensible for us to hold ourselves somewhat more backwards towards those where it actually works and then, on the other hand, to solve it where it does not work. Because there the one size fits all-model has, in my opinion, been far too gentle at the places where it doesn't work. However, if it applies to everyone in such a one size fit all-model, you are trying to find a balance, and that is actually inappropriate. There must be different rules depending on whether you are a school where it works or you are a school where it doesn't. So this is such an independent part of this agreement, which I am very pleased with, and in which I also think it fits very well in the course of the whole debate on freedom. I am very much in favour of a greater degree of freedom in everyday life, but it must also be ensured that the quality of the school offer you receive is adequate. In other words, that balance must be found, and I think we have hit it very well here. So, together about the school... why have we established it? We do, because the way to run the school, which has probably been the common way of seeing it in here for many years, has been that if you made legislation and major reforms, you had an expectation that it just came true. I just don't believe the school works that way. The school is exactly what we have always called it, namely a school being, and that being must be understood. And in it lies that both parents and pupils and teachers and school leaders with each of their partners have their own positions in all the different issues we touch on. The municipalities have a completely legitimate role in it as those who create bridge building for our day institutions and for further education. And, of course, as a state and as a Parliament, we have a very general view of whether the school delivers and is the cornerstone of our society as it necessarily must be. So we each have our legitimate role to play. And if you think that by pressing some legislation and pressing the green buttons in here you can change the school, you are simply wrong. Legislation is, of course, an important part of it, but it is not the only one. Then you have to run the school, it's crucial that we sit down and listen to each other. When I was a brand-new minister, I was invited to a meeting of the Danish Teachers' Association, where they asked me to give a presentation on how to do motivating teaching. I had to tell them that I wanted to come and listen to them, but I guess they didn't expect me to give the speech. For everything else equal, it must be the case that all those who sit in the room are trained teachers and have a lot of years of experience with them in their luggage, and I am then the only person who is not a teacher and does not have a lot of our teaching experience in the luggage, so why on earth should I be the one who holds that presentation? It is actually an expression that the surfaces of the cuts had been completely meshed together. So who is it in which room decides what? Of course, it is the Folketing that decides what the overall framework should be: what is the school supposed to be in our society? How much money should there be for that, what resources, how should teachers be trained, etc. etc.? But in relation to how to create motivating teaching, only one party is the most capable, and that is, of course, the teachers. Then we need the parents' insight. Parents are an incredibly diverse group, and I began by saying so. We need the parents' wish for what a school day should be for their children, and then there is the absolutely legitimate right of the pupils to have something to say in relation to the school day. So it's just to say that we each have our roles in this, and if we don't cooperate with each other to do the job, we'll only get so far with the legislation we're making in here. We become wiser by listening to each other, and that is the whole foundation for us to have established the School Together. I hope for continuity, because such a thing always has its test when we switch people out, and now Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, that there will be a parliamentary election, and then who will be elected, who will not be elected? The same goes for the organisations with which we work. Right now there is the circle of people who have helped to start it. Where the school has to run its really big test is when the individuals are replaced with some new ones. Does it carry? That is why it has been extremely important for the public school circle to have been behind it. It will be rare for all seats to be changed at once. I very much hope that we can achieve continuity around this, and it is my wish and earnest hope that in future the primary school will be led in a close, close community between the Folketing on the one hand and the parties around the school on the other. It was a long speech. I also think this is extremely important. So thank you very much to all the parties for their cooperation, and thank you very much to the parties around the school together. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503174742	Thank you to the Minister for the speech, and you can refer to the goddamn thing, even though he is a bad man, but you can't use it as a swearing word. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503174804	The debate is open and we must first welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503174838	Thank you for that, President. This is indeed, as has just been said, a question of extending degrees of freedom, and it can be said that there are a great many things that the pandemic has taught us. There are a lot of bad things to say about covid-19, but some valuable experiences also came out of it, and above all we saw that the way schools dealt with it was quite impressive, but that it actually also required that they were given the opportunity to deal with it according to local conditions. It can be said that what we are dealing with today is an extension of a model that we have had during the pandemic, because it was so different how the crisis struck, because it was so different how the different pupils were affected, because the schools were affected differently, because for good reasons we learn differently and need different interventions. So we really put out a lot of freedom to schools in order to organize school day exactly as it was best for the pupils who attended the school or in the class in question, and what are the degrees of freedom in this is that you can convert, for example, the supporting teaching to other things that trigger the same staff consumption, that is to say translated: it must not be a saving exercise, but you can arrange school day differently with two teacher schemes or turbo courses or some other things that make sense locally. You could say that we're lucky we're on the other side of the pandemic. There are probably still some places where we are in the process of getting into what may have happened, but at the same time we have a discussion about greater freedom for the school, and so it makes sense to say that while we are discussing how we can give more freedom to the school, it is perhaps a rather strange time to remove levels of freedom that we have, while we are sitting here and discussing how we can learn from the things we learned during the pandemic and from the attempts at freedom that are otherwise running, and also at a time when we really think that part of the freedom that has been given must be permanent, either in exactly the same way or in a shade. So we support extending the possibility of these degrees of freedom. We think it has been handled well in schools, but it is of course clear that we have not taken a decision on how to organise schools permanently, and that is what we are doing. But what is here is a wise thing, and the only thing I would like to say in concrete terms, because it has been a discussion, is that of competence coverage. After all, I think it is obvious that the greatest challenge with competence coverage at school is the lack of trained teachers, in other words, that there are too many teachers in our primary school who do not have a teacher training at all. This is the greatest challenge in terms of competence coverage, but it is also clear that it is always a quality that the teachers who teach also have special skills in the subjects they teach, and therefore it is wise to have a goal to ensure that you have as much as possible a line course coverage or what to say; that is at least what it was called when I started learning about the subjects you teach. On the other hand, during the pandemic, where fewer teachers were taken into account for reasons of infection, and where there should be fewer different people in the class, in some places also experienced, especially in the smallest classes, depending on the class, depending on the children's group, that it has compensated and more than compensated for the absence of linework coverage, that one had a closer relationship, a greater knowledge of the class, a better student-teacher relationship, and that is why I really think we owe each other a discussion about how we organize it there. For some places it really seemed as if it was an educational gain and a professional gain to loosen some of what we normally consider to be a uniquely professionally good thing, namely that you have line trade coverage. So I think there is a discussion about this, but it is very important that it does not become such a black-and-white discussion, and it will probably also be something that one has to justify pedagogically out there. And again, I would like to say that the biggest challenge is that for many teachers without really being trained teachers, and we must also have that in various other debates on teacher training and other matters. So I'll look forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503175304	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech to Mr Seligman. Jens Joel. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503175313	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. It is not so long ago, in fact, that we last stood here in Parliament and debated more freedom for the public schools, and I must also start by saying that this is a matter for the Left, because we believe, basically, that strong primary schools and freedom are closely linked, yes, our slogan is actually that more freedom offers more opportunities. That is why we also want to set schools free so that they can also find local solutions that are best suited to their particular school. Today we are discussing a bill which is also about the freedom to organise school day itself, but certainly on a rather gloomy background, namely on the basis of the covid-19 and the far too many and long decommissionings, which have also put professionalism and thriving pressure on many schools. Although the corona crisis is fortunately gradually something we are talking about as something that was once, we must also be honest and say that there are still some places where they still need freedom. It is the case that the extended Corona measures have actually made it necessary to be able to lift the well-being and, for that matter, also the professionalism of the individual schools. This requires schools to be free, among other things. to organise the teaching in the way it makes the best sense for them. It is to correct the corona deficiency, but in the left optics it is also quite general. At the same time, we must build on the good experiences that, despite everything, we had with us in the covid-19, and listen to the schools when they say that those degrees of freedom are actually something that benefits them. Among other things, there are: In some specific forms, schools have used distance learning and will also make sense to them in the future. That is why the Left is included in the agreement, and that is why we also support the bill to extend the levels of freedom of the primary schools in the coming years. The primary school is the strongest if it is based on free choice. I cannot help but teasing the former rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party. He stood on the platform a little while ago and talked warmly about more freedom and freedom to make choices for himself, but you have among other things. could read a little about what Mr. Jens Joel was out on May 1st about forced distribution. We have heard about this in the field of youth education, but we have heard that social democracy might also have a desire to abolish free elections elsewhere. It's just to tease the Social Democracy a little bit. We in the Left believe that we need free elections. We have that for these degrees of freedom, which is why we support them today. Of course, we support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503175636	Thank you to Mrs Anni Matthiesen. There is a brief comment. Here you go, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503175645	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, and thank you for your cooperation on a great many things, including more degrees of freedom for the school. Apart from all that controversy, I have to react to something. There is also today, unless the Left intends to terminate the way in which this is happening today, where there are school districts, wishes which are taken into account, as far as it is possible to accommodate them, and then there are some schools where you are at the end of the queue. That's the way it is today. If for various reasons you do not want the local school you live closest to, you are in the back of the queue and can only enter the others if there is room. That's why I just think what the Left says is caricatured. Today you can choose completely freely, but there is no regard for the fact that schools have districts, that there are inequalities and that there are some who have more choice than others. I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left to confirm that it is not intended to dismantle school districts and the distribution that we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503175757	Here you go, Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503175758	The reason I thought it was obvious to mess with Mr. Knox. Jens Joel today was of course especially that I have been worried when I read what Mr. Jens Joel's been out saying. I am concerned about this, in relation to whether the Socialists have new plans in relation to the distribution of primary school pupils as well. We in the Left are very fond of the free choice and will go very, very far in all possible areas to preserve the opportunity for pupils and also their parents to be allowed to choose for that matter, and I have to say that I thought it was obvious to tease the rapporteur today. Now we are close to 1 May, and at least some things were in what I could read that worried me.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503175844	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503175846	First of all, what I have said is not an initiative by the government, but more importantly, this is going to be such a total automatic reaction. On the other day, Mr. Kim Valentin, who is also present in the Chamber because someone on Twitter said that they had not had their first choice in high school, that it is also the student distribution in high schools. But it has not yet entered into force, and that is why it can be said that if the Left is angry that there is not a completely free choice today, it is an expression that it does not exist and it has nothing to do with that discussion. So should we not relate to the polarisation that is actually taking place and not imagine that today there is free choice on all shelves? Of course, there will be free choice in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503175931	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503175932	However, with the social democracy model, there are, on the other hand, a considerable number of young people who do not have the free choice, and I hope the rapporteur will agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503175946	So I would like to thank Mrs Anni Matthiesen. There are no more brief comments. And then we welcome the SF rapporteur. Here you go, Mrs. Charlotte Broman Mølbæk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503175959	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. A few years ago, something quite incredible happened, not with positive signs. A pandemic came across the country, and it's some of the things that have put a lot of our common way of doing things under pressure and pause, and we had to come up with a lot of other ways to deal with it. We have, as it were, had to build the bridge as we walked on it, but it has also provided opportunities for some of what I would at least call a positive change, because with this bill we will then continue some of the degrees of freedom that we agreed with each other that we could give the schools in the circumstances that existed. For a long time, the SF has been fighting for schools to be able to change the supporting education as long as the staff resources remained in the primary school, so that it can be converted into hours with two adults. That's some of what we fight a lot for, because it's some of what we know that works out there. It was an opportunity that really gave shorter school days to pupils, while at the same time giving teachers better opportunities for preparation as well. In the autumn, the Danish Teachers' Association conducted a survey among the municipalities, which showed that 84 per cent. of all municipalities chose to change the supporting teaching, and almost everyone converted it into the two-teacher scheme. It must be a clear signal, or as we say in Randers, a hint with a truck pole compared to that this is the right way to go. However, at the same time as the possibility of converting the supporting training, we have also been given the opportunity to derogate from a number of other requirements, such as: student plans, quality reports, competence coverage, and there is also the possibility of distance learning. I would like to add a few words to that, for those of us who have children may remember what happened with distance learning. I remember one morning, I went in to my big daughter, and then I could hear my daughter lying under the covers, and a teacher said to one of the other students: Awake! And that's not what you're thinking about with this exact part. But what we can do with distance learning is that we can create a more flexible way of teaching, and there is also a framework for whether we can really go when we talk about this distance learning, and there absolutely must be, because we do not need a school where we sit away from each other, but where we can use some of the digital solutions that exist. One of the things in which I also see opportunities is particularly children and young people with a disability who find it harder to come in every day for teaching, and in which I also know that disability organisations have on several occasions reached out to whether or not we could try to look at better opportunities precisely for creating virtual education, and it may be, for example, as it says, if it is considered that there is educational consideration for it. So, of course, I think, as I am sure it is clear, that if we do not continue with these positive ideas and give the public schools their professional skills back and continue with this agreement for the next school year. That's what Mr. Jens Joel among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we have said before is that what also makes this extension a year forward is because we are discussing the possibilities of more freedom in schools and the attempts at freedom which we have been discussing in the past. Therefore, it would be silly to stop it right in the middle of it all, so let's finally listen to the people who have worked with it out there and give this extension. We believe that we are taking part in the performance pressure away from the students, so that they really also have better time to be children, and that we are creating better opportunities for teachers and schools to be allowed to do what they are best to do, namely to make good and motivating teaching, and it must be our main purpose to back up, and with those comments, the SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503180424	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either. We must therefore welcome the rapporteur of the Radical Left. Here you go, Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503180435	Thank you. Yesterday I was with some teachers. I just had to see their incredibly cool professional room, and then we went into talk about the development of the teaching, and then one of the teachers suddenly says that the best thing during the corona was just to have all the time in her class, so that when the students got preoccupied with something, you didn't have to end after 45 minutes, because she had the rest of the day anyway, so she could just take it as it suits the students. And we've heard so many teachers say that. As the Socialist rapporteur has also said, it actually gives us a bit of a puzzle in the Radical Left, because for decades we have been working to do something about the fact that there were too many teachers who were not trained in their subjects, we have been fighting to put 1 billion of extra education on the line, demanding that the line subjects be covered. It has been incredibly difficult and we have always had to negotiate over and over again, and it is so difficult to succeed, and now we have the experience of corona, where teachers so clearly report back, how important it is that there are at least few teachers in the small classes with very strong relationships with the students. In Finland the middle is divided; there you have class teachers in the small classes, and then you have teachers in the large classes. That is why I feel exactly the same way as Mr. Jens Joel also expressed that I actually think we have a joint task in Together about school to have a talk about what this should really look like. For now we are just giving another year's freedom, but I think we have a common obligation to look at how we are really doing it in the best way, both for students and for teachers. I would like to go into this very openly. Then here in the bill we also have the freedom for shorter school days. This is also true for only one more year, and in the Radical Left we would also like to raise that discussion, because we would like all pupils to have shorter days. I believe that the schools themselves must have the freedom to prioritise their money, so that as a school you can choose, if you prefer to spend the money on having a long school day, or if you would rather have a shorter school day and then be able to afford to put an extra teacher or educator on or divide the class up into small teams. Then it also matters to me that children have more time in their spare time. In other words, if you have to do really good recreational activities in the sfo' or at the leisure home or in the club, it just takes some time to light a fire and make snort bread or be creative or get ready to make role-play, or whatever it is you're preoccupied with. Therefore, it matters that children have time for leisure time and for leisure education. It also matters to me that if you choose around to use this freedom to shorten school days, you must of course also pay for the leisure institutions to open something sooner. I said it again here in the negotiations, and I really believe that we have a political task in that, if we make the freedom of shorter school days permanent, then at the same time also take responsibility for the fact that this should not mean, of course, that our leisure education should not become inferior, but rather that we should ensure that there should be good leisure opportunities with good educators, with workshops, with bonfire cabins and with rabbits, and therefore that this should not be a saving. Then there is the last part of the proposal which deals with distance learning. Actually, I'm not so messed up about that, because I believe it's time for more community. I believe that our school has become too individualised and that when you sit in front of your own computer, you cannot feel that it is important that you are there. I believe that pupils should be allowed to contribute, they should be allowed to feel that they are important in the community. That is why I would like more camping school, more school gardens, more animals, more theatre performances, more morning songs, and that is why I do not necessarily want there to be so much more distance learning. I think we should be extremely aware of when it makes sense and what we want with it, and therefore it is also absolutely crucial for me that distance learning cannot be imposed from above. It must be the teachers, and therefore ultimately the school management, who are in charge. I would therefore like to make it quite clear that this bill cannot be used to impose distance learning on any school from above. It is and must be an educational choice, and it lies with the teachers. This will enable the Radical Left to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503180914	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503180919	Actually, I just have one question for the end. I fully agree with the radical rapporteur on this point that it should be an educational choice and that it should not come from above; it should be motivated in the student group, in other words in the specific pupils involved. But while a lot of people were having a hard time under the corona, some actually experienced a blossoming, and perhaps some of them need to withdraw from that community occasionally. I shall be the first to agree with the radical rapporteur that it is important to be part of a community, but sometimes one also needs to sit alone and nerd with one's task in order to be able to stamp into the community with full resources. So I'm actually just saying that to get the nuance that for some it may be a way to let up to stamp into the community and that it can really provide a strength and a security. But there's a clear backup, too, just to tell the cameras that it's not a saving exercise or anything that has to come from above, but that it has to be motivated in the learners it's about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503181016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503181018	Thank you for making it so clear. I think that is an extremely important signal to send out here from the Danish Parliament today, that it is the individual teacher who has to assess what kind of pupils it can make sense for and in which situations it can make sense, and that it must never be used for some decision to be made further up in the system that we are now, for example, now. wants that 10%. must be distance learning and then it will be an indirect saving exercise. So just thank you for also saying so clearly on the part of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503181043	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then it is Enhedslisten's turn. Here you go, sir. Jakob Silver Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503181053	Thank you. During the long period in which the corona has influenced the organisation of education in primary and other parts of the education sector, we have gained many experiences of liberation from the existing rules. I think that, by its very nature, it is experience that we could have been without, but, on the other hand, it is very sensible when we were forced to organise things in a different way and have gained some positive experience with it, so of course also to make use of it. The proposal here proposes to extend the levels of freedom in three different areas, and we can support the main lines in the Enhedslisten, although I would also like to mention a few places where we cannot say that we are shaking hands, but where we think there is at least some reason to tread cautiously. We agree that a great many good and exciting experiences have been gained with the organisation of teaching as distance learning, and we think it is very sensible to continue to develop the work on digital education, but I and Enhedslisten are well in agreement with the concerns expressed by Mrs Lotte Rod. I have taken note of the fact that several of the parties to the hearing are very right, I think, to stress how important it is that education is carried out jointly and that physical association actually has a very important role, especially in the teaching of children, and that is what we are talking about here. It is clear that when it is given the opportunity in adult education to people who are in jobs and may also have to travel a long way to their education, it has a different perspective, but in relation to the teaching of children physical association is very important. And I have also noticed that for example. an organisation such as the Danish Psychologist Association points out that where it can have negative consequences, it will have a particular impact on pupils who come from families with a low level of education or are socially marginalised. So I think it is really important that the draft law also states that the starting point for ordinary education is that the pupils should be physically present. I therefore think it is right that we should think in particular of the organisation of teaching digitally in the context of project processes, thematic weeks, etc., as is also proposed in the proposal. And then I think they're 20 percent. I guess it's a little high. I would also like to add that it was mentioned by one of the rapporteurs that, on the issue of children and young people with disabilities, I too am very much in agreement. Important experience has also been gained here, and there is a very strong focus. For example: it fills a lot for an association such as the Muscle Dwindling Foundation. I myself have also been involved in dialogue on some of the opportunities for children with disabilities. So we must certainly continue to work on it. In terms of converting the supporting teaching, it makes sense that we extend the possibility. Nor will I neglect this opportunity to say that we have a problem with the leisure arrangements with the construction that is, but also to say that it is not new, because it has always been the problem with § 16b, and it was probably also with § 16d. In other words, with regard to the possibility of conversion, on the one hand, it is very positive that the funds are tied to the teaching, but on the other hand, when the youngest pupils receive shorter teaching time and there is a need for a leisure offer, there is simply a problem of financing the need for extra staff in school-time schemes and for the slightly older children in the clubs. That's a dilemma with this proposal. We support it because we do not believe that we can solve the problem here, but it is another reason to say that we simply need to look at how we can create a better framework for the way in which we define our leisure arrangements. So, in summary, there were things that we might have thought were a little different from what is here, but overall we think it is a very sensible proposal. It is good that the levels of freedom are extended and we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503181553	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech to Mr Seligman. Jakob Silver Mound. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503181600	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In reality, things are going a little bit further with distance learning, because let us just say that there are no conflicts in relation to educational reasons and that it should be about the specific children. Sir. Jakob Silverhøj also correctly mentioned some of those with certain disabilities, which may benefit from some of these things, and I touched on Mrs Lotte Rod's problem about some of those who may need to shield themselves from social noise sometimes. I may also think that one of the questions we can ask to some who know more about it than ourselves, and who could be worth testing, is, of course, when we have so many children who suffer from school migration and are very far away from the school.I know at least from myself that the fear of being able to join in may sometimes be the worst thing about this could also be a tool one could use to like being allowed to look inside the classroom and see that it is actually not so dangerous, and then maybe in fact get some lure back in. But there is full support for the fact that there must be educational reasons and that it should not become a new normal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503181704	Sir. Jakob Silver mound, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503181705	Well, I don't think we disagree. I'm just raising a cautious flag of concern. I fully agree, and the Muscle Dwindling Fund and others have also worked with robotics and things that could be used. I think that perhaps the biggest problem in relation to the learning problems of the smallest children and young people is that they experience that they are outside the community. Well, I think it has a huge significance with the whole social and learning community that arises in space, and that's only why I think it's so incredibly important that we are aware of how important it is with physical association. This is not contrary to the fact that we are working on distance learning and making ourselves new digital experiences, but we must remember the importance of the community at school; I think it is extremely important.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503181804	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. Then there are no more brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Mai Mercado.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503181816	In the Conservative People's Party, we support this bill. We support the possibility of both creating more flexibility and extending the levels of freedom that we have already done in the past, but which we are now doing for the school years 2022 and 2023. We are particularly pleased with the fact that this is why I would also like to highlight the possibility of converting the supporting teaching, and for our sakes we could just do so permanently tomorrow. Already back in January 2020, we made the proposal to allow for the possibility of converting supporting education into schools. So we are pleased that we can now continue both the increased flexibility and the increase in freedoms. We certainly also think that the discussions we have in the circle of agreements, in the circle of conciliation, about increased freedoms are quite interesting. Perhaps I should also say on this occasion that for us Conservatives it is not such an end in itself to create greater freedom. This may sometimes be the case for some bourgeois parties, but that is not the case for the Conservative People's Party. For the Conservative People's Party, a goal in itself will be to create a better school, to get better education, to create better education, and thus to increase freedoms can be a means of getting there, but it is not an objective or an objective in itself to create increased freedoms. To the part relating to distance learning, I would say that we think it has a potential, not least in the light of the good experience that has been gained under corona. We are generally in favour of making different divisions, among others. when it comes to learning styles based on different levels. Therefore, we also think that there are some good opportunities, but of course on the basis that it is done at the individual school and also on the basis of educational reasons, if you are to do distance learning, so that you have the opportunity to work intensively in the class with a small group of pupils, where you are present with a more hand-held effort and can help. In relation to the other group of students, you can create the opportunity for the students to immerse themselves by being able to be at home. So we think there are some potentials that we haven't seen unfolding until we had the corona epidemic. So with those comments, the Conservative People's Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503182104	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Then we welcome DF's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503182113	Thank you, President. The Danish People's Party is included in this small agreement, and that is why we naturally support the bill, which is basically about giving a little more flexibility in 2022 and 2023 in the context of distance learning, which must amount to a maximum of 20%. of the teaching and if the parents can approve it. Then we are on the same lines as, for example. The Conservative People's Party welcomes the fact that in 2022 and 2023 support education can also be converted to, for example: two teacher schemes or to other things that schools think they need. This is quite excellent and we hope that it will continue after 2023. This requires support in the school board. Then we actually agree with the Radicals on the competence-trained teachers. It is of course preferable for everyone to have it, but we have also listened to the wishes that have been expressed, that there are as few teachers as possible, especially in the small classes, because they think it is a good thing. This means, of course, that we need to look a little more flexibly at competence coverage. All in all, the Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503182228	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments here either. Since I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber immediately, I would like to welcome the Minister. Here you go to the Minister for Children and Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503182244	Thank you. Thank you to the parties for their support for the bill. An agreement was reached on 11 March on exactly this, with the extension of the degrees of freedom, full competence coverage and conversion of all the supporting education in primary school during the school year 2022/23. Then, as several people have mentioned from up here, the agreement also provides for the possibility of using distance learning in primary school. The levels of freedom were already in force in 2021 and 2021/22, which means that this is all about enlargement. It is quite true that there is a major debate on several of these elements before us, including that part on competence coverage. One of the most surprising things, which was surprising, both positive and negative, happened during the pandemic, was something that one of the school leaders from one of the more heavily burdened schools in Denmark brought to my attention rather early in the corona course. It was that after they had gone away from having line subjects and to the fact that it was the same two teachers who went through the whole day of school again, the level of conflict was gone. It was not just a question of it being reduced; it was simply a question of it being gone. They didn't have conflicts at the school. And it is one of the most socially burdened schools we have in Denmark that we are talking about here; in other words, conflict management is a relatively large part of the work of the head of the school concerned, and therefore it is of course relatively surprising that one of the handles had such a positive impact. There is, however, something in the discussion: if it is not possible to make a class quiet, so that you can actually complete the teaching, then you are equal in relation to the fact that the person is in line training if you cannot complete the teaching. Then it may actually be that one gets more out of the fact that the teacher in question is able to create calm so that it can actually be taught. The total amount of learning can then end up being significantly larger by doing the last thing instead of the first. So a lot has arisen under the corona, which is interesting and which we have to pick up on. What we are allowing here is to do some of the things again in the coming school year, and it is of course the intention that some of this should be discussed in relation to what it is that we should take on a more permanent basis. One of the first things we bring and do permanently is actually the part about distance learning. I have promised Mrs Lotte Rod that I will speak from the platform because we have had such a discussion back and forth about who decides whether or not to be televised, and it is also clear from the text of the agreement that it is the teacher in the classroom who decides whether or not to do distance learning. The reason why doubts arise then is that it is formally the head of the school. There is, of course, a management room for the school leaders, which means that in those 0.01 per cent. In cases where the teacher chooses to do something completely on the moon in relation to distance learning, the head of the school must be able to lean over the table and say: No, it does not. And that's why, when we write these things down, we don't have to abolish the principal's management room. But it is just to indicate here from the platform that there is a complete agreement in the agreement that it is the teacher who has it as a tool, just as the teacher in daily practice is the one who stands for incredible many of the other tools, but where the headmaster also has an opportunity, if the teacher steps alongside, to intervene. When we chew it through in the legal profession, reference will be made to the upper layers in a different way, because it is they who ultimately have the right to intervene against the situations that are there. But in the daily work it is also the teacher himself who assesses how to intervene most appropriately with some students who do not behave properly, how to best teach Danish, and whether to have a test next week and one again next week, or not. This is rarely something the head of the school is aware of unless problems of a different nature arise. And this is one of the tools we have discussed, at least in connection with the fact that we have made agreements on what is the teacher's so to speak, until the opposite is proven, that is, until there is a need for action at the level of management against a teacher. So that is certainly the purpose of the way we have screwed it up. I don't think I have much more to say about it. I had my longest speech ever given in the Parliamentary Chamber in connection with the last legislative proposal, so I will conclude now before we reach the five minutes. Thank you for the floor and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503182736	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. It was very short, but fine. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Children's and Education. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503182758	The debate is open and we should welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503182826	Thank you for the floor. We are dealing here with a legislative proposal to implement the DAC7, which is an amendment to the directive on administrative tax cooperation. And what exactly is the DAC7? The DAC7 sets the framework for cooperation and exchange of tax information between EU countries, and it must counteract tax avoidance and avoidance. DAC1 was implemented in Denmark in 2012 and has been changed six times since then, so today we are faced with DAC7 which extends the EU's implementing rules and legislation on this subject. The rules shall apply from 1 January 2023. In recent years, we have witnessed several cases of tax evasion and fraud, both at home and in the European Union. This kind of financial crime, in which people or companies fail to pay the tax that they are obliged to pay, is, to put it mildly, unacceptable, and we must therefore do what we can to combat it. We are obliged to do so. Securing ambitious international action in this area is a priority for the Social Democratic Party, and we are therefore constantly working actively to ensure that tax authorities in the European Union become even better at working together across borders and exchanging information. An evaluation of the Administrative Tax Cooperation Directive has shown that there is a need to strengthen the current measures, and with the implementation of the DAC7 we respond to the conclusions of the evaluation and strengthen the tax authorities in their work. Specifically, this means, inter alia, that digital platform operators are obliged to collect and report information about users selling goods or providing services or renting real estate or means of transport via a digital platform. The reporting obligation will provide tax authorities with a better overview of activities that are currently not reported in accordance with the applicable rules. In addition, the implementation involves the continuation of the deduction rules currently applicable to citizens renting out full-time and leisure homes or boats. This will mean that they are applicable in situations where DAC7 is being reported. And then it is proposed to establish the legal basis for maintaining the voluntary reporting system currently in force. This means that the Danish platforms that so wish can carry out voluntary reporting, which allows information to be displayed to citizens and re-printed on the annual balance sheet, as is the case today. So the conclusion is that with better control, more transparency in the tax field and stronger coordinated action between the tax authorities in the European Union, we can take an extra step in the fight against unacceptable economic crime. The Social Democratic Party, of course, supports the bill, and so do Enhedslisten, I should greet and say from Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503183140	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. We shall then welcome the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Kim Valentin. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503183151	Thank you. I am not going to stand here and repeat everything the Social Democrat rapporteur has said, but I would like to say in this context that this is one of the places where we see the European Union having a real impact on how we do things. We sometimes forget to say that, which is why I would like to take this opportunity to say here that it is nice that we stand together on such things in order to find some gaps where cheating and deception can arise and do so in the same way all over the place. This is one of the places where we can just work together. And then, as has been said, it is part of the tax transparency rules on digital platforms, and it is nice that it is possible to collect, report commercial activities in full transparency, so there is transparency throughout the whole. I would also like to point out something else, and that is that we in Denmark are a little ahead of others, in some places much ahead of others, and it does of course mean that there may be some things you need to adapt more in Denmark than you have to do elsewhere. I am asking some questions about this because I think that in some places we may be able to make it a little more flexible for those who are already doing well in Denmark. It is just to say that it might well be that there were some individual hairs in the soup that we could take up for the Danish companies so that we can make it as flexible as possible for them. Then it also offers an opportunity to create a level playing field, because when you have the same rules from country to country, the competitive situation is very similar, and that is also nice. Of course, cheating and deception also make it a little easier to get around it in another country than you can in Denmark, for example, because we have some very good skills to implement and actually do it relatively effectively. With this law, I think we're gonna get rid of some of it, too, because it's gonna be exactly the same thing you have to do all over the place. But, as I said, we're in the left for this bill. We ask a few questions, and when we get answers to them, I think we're close to having a perfect solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503183452	Thank you to the Left rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech. There is just one brief comment. I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur of the DF. Here you go, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503183458	Thank you. I have taken the floor because I was aware that the Left thanked the European Union for this. However, I would like to know whether the rapporteur of the Left is aware that with this bill you are required to report it to the Danish Tax Office as a summer cottage rental agency. This is done in advance according to the Danish rules. If you rent your apartment via Airbnb, you will already report it automatically to the Danish Tax Office. If you rent your car through GoMore, this bill says that you have to report it to the Danish Treasury, but it's already done. So what is the deep dish that has been invented here, for which there is a need to thank the European Union? I mean, the only thing that happens is that it costs the Treasury 295 million. kr., and perhaps there are similar costs for companies to switch to something they already do. So what exactly do you think you should thank the European Union for?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503183546	Sir. Kim Valentin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503183547	Thank you. It is always nice when you try to say that the way you do it in one country is also the way you do it in another country. Because unfair competition can arise by not having the same rules. That's one part. I think the European Union is extremely good at this. Then it is true, as I also say, that Denmark is a part of some of the other countries, and therefore there may also be some things that you need to adapt. In any case, that is what I have heard, so you have to adjust it a little in relation to the way you do it in Denmark, so that it will not be too difficult for our companies. And that's why I said it earlier. Basically, however, this is a place where the European Union makes a great deal of sense for our businesses and for the way it is done, because it thus creates a level playing field for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503183641	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503183642	So let's try to take a different angle on it. As far as thanking the European Union is concerned, it is true that it can be fair enough with one's rules of play around, so that you know how to be taxed, not only in the European Union, but also in a broader sense. But the reason why the EU has made these rules is, after all, an OECD model, a model from the OECD, which is a much larger body. But the European Union can never wait for it, so it is forced down the throats of, among others. Denmark, which already has the rules. So is there really something to thank the European Union for? Could it not only have been possible to implement the OECD rules, as this proposal does, incidentally, in relation to countries outside the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503183714	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503183715	I think it is a good thing that we are doing this under the auspices of the European Union, because we can then standardise something across countries. And that's exactly what we can do in this case. OECD rules are also good, but why should we wait for them if we agree on this within the EU's borders? Then we might as well stop cheating and deception as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503183749	There are no more brief comments, so I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Left. Kim Valentin. And then it is said a little cheerful here that we have Valentine's Day in here today, because we must welcome the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Carl Valentin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503183806	It happens every once in a while, and I always think it's nice. I don't know a lot of people called Valentin that I'm not related to. In the SF, we are above all in favour of the intention to strengthen the ability of the authorities to levy taxes, and we are, because we want a more efficient tax system that will ensure that the lowest possible rate of tax evasion will be successful, etc. Indeed, we must ensure that the tax authorities have the necessary conditions to be able to control so that they can catch those who are trying to cheat. When people bypass tax rules and cheat, it is money that could have been spent on basic welfare schools, elderly care, nurses and much more. The proposal provides for more optimal and effective conditions for the authorities to collect taxes and see through the use of digital services relating to the use of personal services and the sale and rental of assets. We are positive about this. The proposal also contains an improvement in existing tax cooperation across EU countries, and here too we are positive. SF works for better and more effective tax rules, also internationally. There are still gaps in tax legislation across national borders and they must be closed. There must be no more rich people and large companies getting away with tax havens and exploiting gaps in legislation. Of course, they should not get away from contributing to the community. In order to delve more into the substantial part of the proposal, I have a few questions which I look forward to addressing in the further discussion. The questions are primarily concerned with the particular sub-economic deduction, which I believe needs to be clarified a little more. Is it the Government's intention that this particular sub-economic deduction is still necessary in order to ensure correct tax payments after the implementation of the DAC 7? In addition, we also want answers to what part of the administrative expenditure for the tax administration of the approx. 275 million kr. in the period 2022 to 2029 which is expected to be linked to the maintenance and system support of the special sub-economic deduction. I look forward to getting answers to these questions, and I look forward to further consideration. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184015	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no brief comments. I do not immediately see any rapporteur from the Radical Left, so we should welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184023	Thank you very much. I am here as a standin for Rasmus Jarlov, who is prevented from being here today, and therefore I read his speech. It is a legislative proposal for an EU directive that specifies and standardises how operators of digital platforms providing goods and services should report their revenues. The aim is for the tax authorities of the various countries to exchange information and to combat tax evasion. There will be a transitional period so that for a period one can continue with the current Danish way of reporting if one wishes to do so. The details of the bill can be discussed, but basically we have no choice, as we know it is an EU directive that needs to be implemented. We shall, of course, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184108	Thank you, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. There are no brief comments. Then it is DF's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184120	Thank you. As has been said, this is about the implementation of an EU directive in Danish law. It is called the DAC7 and it is about reporting and exchanging tax information between countries, mainly to address the digital platform economy. Let me give you a few examples of what that could be. This is among other things. a holiday home that is rented via an agency, and it must then automatically be reported to the Tax Authority, or it may be an apartment that is rented via Airbnb, where Airbnb then must report it to the Tax Authority, or it may be one that rents its car via GoMore, and there is the same thing that it must be reported automatically. It sounds like a good idea and a good idea for the European Union to ensure this, because who can be against people paying the taxes they have to pay? But hey, the vixen listener will probably know that this is happening today. If you rent out your summer house, it is automatically reported to the Danish Tax Office, you rent out your apartment via Airbnb, it is already reported to the Danish Tax Office, and so it is the same with the car. So we have a proposal in which the European Union has re-invented the deep plate. They have solved a problem which Denmark, as a Member State, has already solved. On the other hand, the price is 295 million. kr., and from 2029 onwards it costs 27 million. kr., then you should not send a thank you to the EU for giving us a bill of small 300 million. kr. to solve a problem we have already solved! Why, then, is the European Union doing this? After all, this is because the OECD has created a model for managing platform economy, i.e. sharing economy, a model that is good in the sense that it affects far more countries than if you have EU regulation. It is therefore much better for us to use a forum such as the OECD when it comes to international tax law. But the European Union can never wait for that. Time and again we see that when the OECD comes up with a good model, we must hurry to copy it, and then it must be forced down the throats of all the EU countries. I think it is too bad that we cannot just wait and get the OECD model to work. Moreover, there is good evidence that this is the solution that is being adopted, because what about such things as Airbnb, which is not in Europe? There we need the OECD model. So part of the bill is actually also about implementing the OECD model so that we can deal with the countries outside Europe. So why couldn't you just settle for it? Then you can ask yourself how you as a party stand on such a matter. We're in charge of reporting information. So it's already happening. We are in favour of the exchange of information between countries. That's what you already do. We are also in favour of the OECD model. But we are opposed to the EU trying every time to trump these OECD rules. Then the question is what to do. Now it is an EU directive, so Denmark has to say yes to it, but that is why we do not have to say yes to it in the Folketing, and neither do we in my party. The bill also contains a number of other elements. In particular, they shall be introduced: rules on the possibility of carrying out joint audits between countries. Other countries' tax workers are also allowed to enter Danish soil. Today they are actually also able to be in Denmark, but they are not allowed to interview or interrogate a company owner or a citizen or actively participate in studies, but with DAC7 we can count on foreign officials to be allowed to go out to the company, pull the company owner aside and interview him and participate in surveys. Frankly, I think it is a bad idea for us to have Romanian, Greek or Latvian tax officials who can come to a company and ask to see the annexes and help interrogate an employee. So it does not belong in Denmark. So it is up to the Danish authorities to have this control. It is clear that you have to cooperate with the other countries, but if we have a company that has both departments in Germany and Denmark, the Germans have to take care of control in Germany and the Danes in Denmark. So we should not have foreign tax workers running around in Denmark and exercising control. So we cannot support that part in the Danish People's Party either. So overall, that's a no to this bill on our part.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184518	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There is a brief comment. I should like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Kim Valentin from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184523	It's just a question of how important this level playing field is to the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184532	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184533	Thank you. But this is extremely important, and that is precisely what the OECD model, which is a much broader and better forum, is all about. I mean, it's well over 100 countries that are involved. What you're trying to regulate is typically these big platforms, but where are they? Yes, they are in the United States, and how does it help to make DAC7 an EU directive? It doesn't help anything. In other words, there are virtually none of them who are native to the European Union. There are some smaller ones, for example. GoMore, a Danish platform, but it's already reporting. So yes, I agree that there should be a level playing field and that we should ensure that they are taxed on these incomes so that they cannot outperform all sorts of others, but that is what the OECD model is all about. What, then, is the need for there to be EU regulation on top of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184616	Is there another brief comment? There is. Here you go, sir. Kim Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184618	Is this not just on the part of the rapporteur in an attempt to say that the EU is bad and that the OECD is good? Anything that the European Union would bring in in this way would be just bad, because in the OECD they are doing very well. Does the rapporteur not see anything positive about the fact that we in the European Union are going together to fight cheating and deception and then have a level playing field made much faster than can be done elsewhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184650	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184651	The question was whether we in the Danish People's Party do not just think that the EU is really bad, and indeed it is true in this area. I really do not see any need for the European Union to re-invent the deep plate and impose on us 300 million. kr. In order to solve a problem that we have already solved in Denmark, moreover, in a true copy of the OECD model, because one cannot wait for that model to be implemented around the countries, and then the EU must try to force it down our throats. So yes, it is true that we really think that the European Union has been poor in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184719	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no more brief comments, and then we should welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184727	Thank you. I can start by taking questions from the rapporteur of the Left and saying: No, we do not see so much positive in the European Union either, so you do not have to ask questions about it, and that is what Mr. Kim Valentin doesn't. There are major problems with the European Union, yes, we can give a full lecture on the problems that exist with the European Union. But let's deal with this bill. I very much agree with my colleague from the Danish People's Party. We have a number of questions about the necessity of this. We do not feel in any way bound by just having to accept everything that comes from the European Union. On the contrary, we believe that it would be an improvement if the Folketing repeatedly opposed the European Union and said: "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, that madness must stop. However, there is no indication that the majority of the Folketing will do so, but that should not prevent us from being parties that say stop and no. We should not impose more burdens on business than is necessary because there must be more administration and bureaucracy from down there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184826	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber immediately, so we should welcome the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503184846	Thank you. And thank you for a good and serious handling of this bill. Let me just make it clear that I simply think there is something you have misunderstood a little if you think that this bill means that it is just exactly the same thing that is happening today. That's not true. This bill extends the number of services that will be reported from in relation to the Danish scheme, and if you, for example, are reported from in relation to the Danish scheme. as a Dane rents his holiday home via a rental company in Denmark or in Spain, the Danish authorities have access to the information and can tax it. In other words, there will be an extension of the scope for exchanging information and a real basis for monitoring it as well. These are two things that are significantly different from what is happening today, and that is why I believe that the picture that this is just the European Union doing something that we are already doing in Denmark is simply not correct. The draft law we are discussing here is precisely implementing the DAC7 as it has also been put forward. And the DAC7 is therefore an amendment to the Administrative Cooperation Directive, which is part of a strengthened effort by the EU countries in recent years to counter tax avoidance and tax evasion through increased transparency in tax matters. Significant improvements have been made and considerable progress has been made, including in the exchange of information. However, an evaluation of the Administrative Taxation Cooperation Directive showed that existing provisions relating to all forms of information exchange and administrative cooperation still need to be improved. The aim of the DAC7 is to strengthen the existing rules on automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation and address the challenges associated with the increasing digitalisation of the economy. The implementation of the DAC7 will thus contribute to the better and more efficient collection of taxes by tax authorities and will keep pace with the increased use of digital platforms in relation to personal services, as well as the sale and rental of activities. After DAC7, digital platforms shall be required to collect and report information enabling users who sell goods, provide services or lease real estate or means of transport via a digital platform to be identified. The information is subsequently exchanged between the EU countries, and the DAC7 thus extends the area of exchange of information between the EU countries to something more than what is happening today. The DAC7 envisages a broad reporting area in which a number of activities that are not reported today under the current Danish rules will be subject to reporting obligations. The DAC7 requires digital platforms to report information about users who, through platforms, sell goods or services or rent out all kinds of real estate or means of transport. The current Danish rules concern only the rental of dwellings, cars, boats, etc. Moreover, the reporting obligation under the DAC7 includes both platforms in the EU and platforms in third countries without a permanent establishment in the EU if they have users in the EU. The current Danish rules apply only to Danish platforms; for foreign platforms the reporting is voluntary. So there is a marked expansion of services, plus an obligation to report, plus an exchange of information, which means that this is a significant extension of the area we have today. Under the current tax rules, taxpayers renting out full-year or leisure homes as well as boats, cars and certain other assets have the possibility of applying a schematic deduction to the income statement. Taxation according to these schematic rules depends on whether the rental income is reported by a third party. It is estimated that the purpose of the Danish rules on a special base deduction, namely to ensure taxation of income, will also be achieved in the situations where reporting is made after the DAC7. These reports provide the same scope for scrutiny, which is the reason for allowing taxation according to the special schematic rules. Therefore, we propose to continue the deductions, including in situations where reporting is made after the DAC7. Initially, the information reported after the DAC7 or received by exchange will not be displayed in the citizen's tax folder nor will it be re-printed on the annual statement. Therefore, it is proposed to provide a legal basis for maintaining the current reporting solution so that the Danish platforms, if they so wish, can carry out voluntary reporting which will ensure the display of information from citizens and the printing of the annual balance sheet to the same extent as is the case today. It remains to be clarified whether such a voluntary reporting scheme should be established. It is relevant that interested organisations and companies are involved in this clarification. In addition to the new rules on reporting obligations for digital platforms, the DAC7 contains a number of amendments to improve the rules on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation within the EU. The amendments aim to make the existing cooperation between the tax authorities in the EU more flexible and effective and are based on an evaluation of the administrative cooperation carried out by the Commission in 2019. I would, of course, be happy to answer the questions and look forward to the further examination of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503185359	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503185418	The debate is open. Here you go, sir. Troels Ravn of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503185443	Thank you for the floor. The bill we are considering here will ensure that heirs can receive compensation for the property tax paid too much by their deceased relatives. In addition to this, the proposal will lead to a series of measures designed to make the administration of the Tax Administration and the Shift Laws simpler and clearer than it is today. This means, first of all, that, with regard to administrative expenses and administration in the Tax Administration, a limit of DKK 1,500 will be introduced, which will mean that the calculated compensation will not be paid if the compensation is calculated at less than DKK 1,500. In this way, we avoid unnecessarily long processing times and straining the shift courses in situations which would in many cases deal with small amounts. But at the same time, the bottom line means that the heirs to approx. 17,000 property owners can be compensated. In other words, the bottom line strikes the right balance between the two important considerations. In addition, the draft law will include: ensure that a new settlement statement is no longer required and that the tax administration does not need to examine whether the property tax previously paid has been deductible for the deceased. In the Social Democratic Party we are in favour of the bill, and I believe that it is fair to the heirs, whom we ensure the right compensation, while taking into account the administration of the Tax Administration and the Shifts Courts. So the Social Democrats therefore support the proposal, and so do the Enhedslisten, I should greet and say from Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503185631	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. It is then the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503185639	Thank you for the floor. We also think that this is a very positive legislative proposal. We were among the parties who called for heirs to be paid over much property tax, and we think that this proposal has succeeded, where the heirs, if heirs are inherited more than DKK 1,500, can have the estate reopened so that they can have the overpaid property tax paid over 10 years. So $1,500. is equal to 150 kroner paid. a year too much in real estate taxes. We think it is a good balance that has been struck so that there is actually an amount to be paid, while at the same time it is commensurate with the cost of reopening the estate. So in the Left, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503185725	Thank you to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. There are no brief comments. And then it is the SF's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Carl Valentin.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503185732	Thank you. As you know, SF is not included in the settlement on the new property valuation system back from 2016, and therefore SF was also not above the agreement of 2020 when the parties agreed that a solution should be found so that compensation could be paid to heirs of deceased property owners who have paid too much in housing tax. It is often the case when tax and reasonableness are discussed in here that the basic notes of the SF tend to be that there is reasonableness in certain parts of the social stoppage taking some more responsibility and paying something more in tax, but justice must of course also be done when some people have paid too much in tax. That is why it is good that an improved solution now appears to be forthcoming with a new model. As I said, the SF is not part of the settlement, so I will confine myself to stating that the model looks fine in our eyes. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503185829	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503185836	Thank you very much. The bill implements an agreement to refund property tax to property owners who have paid too much in tax and now have to have the money back as a result. Of the more precise property valuations that are now being prepared so far, in contrast to living homeowners, death dwellers have not received too much tax, and that is now being corrected by this bill. The Conservative People's Party is included in the agreement, and that is why we support the bill. We are not in favour of the state making a profit from people dying, and we are not in favour of an extra death tax. As you know, we are totally opposed to inheritance tax, and we are therefore voting in favour of it and are pleased that there is in fact a small tax relief that we are thereby getting through.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503185918	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503185927	A lot of Danes, who have money to pay because of too much property tax, automatically get the money back, because this is the way the scheme has been throughout. But this proposal is about the estates who have paid too much property tax, and it has been the case that they have not had to have their money back according to the settlement we made back in 2017. It has been an important matter for the Danish People's Party ever since that we have been trying to find a model to correct it. It is, of course, gratifying that a model has been found in practice which has succeeded, even without the great administrative burdens. The conciliation circle decided back in 2020 that we should find a solution, and we have come up with that now, and it makes it possible to get this money back as heir now, and that is quite reasonable. The prerequisite is for the change right to look at it, and in order for it to run a little smoothly, a number of balances have been made which would so much like to lead to the whole thing going into a larger whole. First of all, it is normal for you to have money back if it is over DKK 200, so it is a de minimis limit, but it is increased to DKK 1,500. per property with this. It is, of course, a higher amount, which draws down on the citizens, but on the other hand, and it has been part of the balance, one should not pay the settlement fee, which is also not paid as a consequence of the reopening of the case, and in this way I think that a good balance has been found in it, in other words an administrative solution which must be both manageable and meaningful for the people who are going to have money back here. It must also be honest to say that if you had to have 300 kroner left in a estate, which would then perhaps have to be paid to three heirs, and there should also be money going to a lawyer to look at it, it might make very good sense that there is a small limit, which this proposal has ended up with 500 kroner. All in all, this means that there are approx. 17,000 estates with associated heirs who then get money back, and that is only quite reasonable, as it is money that has been paid too much over the years and they must move out to those to whom they belong legally. So in the Danish People's Party we are pleased with the compromise that has been made, and we are pleased that there could also be an administrative solution that is actually manageable out there. I can therefore say that, of course, we support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503190143	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you, Mr President. Dennis Flydtkjær. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503190148	Thank you. This was one of those bills where, when I read it, I thought ah. It is an agreement that was made before New Citizens came to Parliament and, as I understand it, it was agreed in the agreement made in 2016 that it should be that way. I do not know whether you have experienced many complaints about it, or whether something has gone wrong, or whether you have actually had the intention to change it since 2016. However, it seems that the decision to change it has been made in 2020, when they were then set to find an administrative solution for how to do this. It's just that I have understood the history of this proposal correctly, because it sounds like this has been an absurdity from the start, but then I wonder why it was done in 2016 as it was done. But it may also be that one has been told by the official at the time that it is technically impossible to make that reimbursement. But I feel a little oh, it's often we're told that technically it can't be done, and then you put up with it. I'm thinking we're gonna have a fight with that. I guess that could be how it works. It was a little funny. But that should not change the fact that the very content of what is now here is of course very positive, because it supports the legal certainty of the citizens, and it gives them back some money that they should not have handed in, and I cannot have any objection to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503190302	Thank you. Then no more rapporteurs have asked to speak, and that is why we have reached the tax minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503190318	Thank you for that, and thank you for the positive reception of the bill, and thank you to the parties for jointly finding a solution and reaching a common understanding of a compromise between ensuring, on the one hand, that there are some people, some citizens who, of course, have a legitimate claim to get some money back, and, on the other hand, to find a level where it can be done within reasonable limits. I would now like to welcome the fact that tax administration is a new and also a better place in the area of property. The valuation board issued the first property valuations to owners of 50,000 simple parcel houses and row houses on 1 September 2021, which means, among other things, that repayment of a total of 130 million. kr. to the owners of the first 50,000 properties can start in the first half of 2022, i.e. this year. The assessment board will postpone new assessments for the summer holidays this year for a further period of approx. 100,000 parcel houses and terraced houses. I am, of course, very pleased that today we are dealing with a legislative proposal which will ensure that heirs can be compensated for the property tax that their deceased relatives have paid too much, and not least that with the bill we have found a balance between, on the one hand, the consideration of heirs and, on the other hand, the consideration of administration in the tax administration and the right to change. With the bill we introduce an amount limit of DKK 1,500, which means that completed estates where the calculated compensation is less than DKK 1,500. per property which will not be compensated. This ensures a certain coherence between the amount of compensation and the administrative costs associated with the resumption of the estate and the payment of compensation. If we had not introduced this threshold, there would have to be a resumption and payment of approx. 22,000 completed estates, many of which will be small amounts. This would represent a very significant burden on the shift courts and lead to longer waiting times for the other cases to be dealt with. This will be the manual operating tasks of the tax administration, where the operating situation in the real estate sector has already been challenged in the coming years. With the introduction of the bottom line, the heirs will after approx. 17,000 property owners could be compensated. This is still a major task, but I believe, as I said, that the draft law has struck a proper balance between the various considerations. In addition, a number of further simplification measures will be introduced to ensure the smooth administration of both the tax administration and the shift courts. Among other things: ensure that the bill does not require a new settlement statement and that the tax administration does not have to check whether property taxes, which were once paid and which proved to be too high, have been deductible for the now deceased property owner. In addition, the shift courts do not need to examine whether an additional legal charge should be calculated. Then I just welcome the fact that we have created a way forward in terms of receiving compensation for the heirs, and I look forward to the further examination of the bill, and I also look forward, of course, to answering questions if this is desirable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503190630	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Minister of Taxation. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503190642	The debate is open and the first rapporteur to speak is from the Social Democratic Party, Mr President. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503190701	Thank you, and thank you for the floor. The bill here implements the part of the Reform Agreement •Further in jobs, a stronger labour market, investment in the future and innovative companies • which is about raising the Su-free amount. The agreement was concluded by the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the SF, Radicals, and the Christian Democrats back in January. At a time when the labour market is crying out for labour, it should not be rigid su rules that prevent students from taking an extra job on a study job, a leisure job or a summer holiday job. This is a way of extending the range of work while giving students an opportunity to earn a little extra money to sweeten their lives, and we in the Social Democratic Party think this is quite sensible. At the same time, the draft law here follows up the agreement on the temporary increase in the free amount in 2022 for trainees participating in community critical functions as part of the covid-19 alert. The agreement was concluded by the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party, Radicals, SF, Conservatives and Liberal Alliance back in December. The students concerned will be given the opportunity to apply for increased free amounts for the 2022 grant year, as was the case in 2020 and 2021, and thus the students who contributed to the management of corona will not be penalised financially for having given the community a helping hand. This part of the proposal has a sunset clause and expires on 1 January 2024. We think that is quite reasonable, and of course we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503190840	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503190844	Now I'm well aware that it's not sir. Troels Ravn, who is the Social Democrat rapporteur in this area, but although Mr. Troels Ravn is a substitute for the Socialist rapporteur, I have such a fundamental question that I would like to ask, and that is whether Mr. Troels Ravn agrees that we normally here in the Folketing respect the conciliation that we enter into across parties and that, when we have reached a settlement, it is, of course, something that agreements within the conciliation circle should be made if there is to be any change in the framework of that conciliation. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220503190921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503190922	I can reply briefly and precisely: yes, of course, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503190927	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503190929	Now I have to point out to the rapporteur that it is actually the case that the draft law here has not been agreed within the Su conciliation circle, but concerns changes to the Su legislation. So thank you for the undertaking that we will normally keep the conciliations that are being concluded, but I can then say that the government has made an agreement here outside the conciliation circle, even though the rapporteur here is against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503190959	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191000	Well, of course, there are some reasons, which I am sure the Minister for the region will be able to explain later in the debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191016	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Then we have come to the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191031	Thank you. This bill is a compilation of two proposals which change the zero rate limit. There is the part about increasing the amount of free allowances for those seeking training who have worked in the covid-19 readiness, and then there is the part about a general increase in the amount of free allowances. Let me start with the first part. As you know, the Corona crisis has required a huge effort from all of us to look after each other, and when we have stood in long man-studded cows to be tested in the white tents, it is often a young face with a wimp in our hand that has met us at the test sites around the country. Many of them are, and have been, students who in the course of their studies have added a little extra to their monthly diet by taking a job as a grafter, but also in the ordinary health system and in the care of the elderly, where there has been a great need for skilled labour, a great many students in the health professions have made a great and invaluable effort which we in the Left have not always wanted to punish by demanding reimbursement of su. For many, however, the extra earnings began to exceed the free amount which one must earn next to the su before being set off. That is, of course, not fair, and that is why it was in the agreement of December 2021, which was also mentioned by Mr Poettering. Troels Ravn, decided to continue the possibility of applying for increased free amounts into 2022. The second part of the bill deals with a general increase in the amount of free allowances for students in youth and higher education, and here perhaps there are a little more considerations to consider. The positive thing in the proposal is that a general increase in the free sum increases the supply of labour, and that is a good thing. Young people close to the free limit are given the opportunity to make an extra effort on the study job which may ultimately qualify them for a place in the labour market after their study period. However, with a su system which is already the most generous in the world, we should perhaps consider whether an increase in the amount of the allowance would also provide an opportunity to look at the level of grants. The Su grants are currently more than twice the average in our neighbouring countries, Sweden, Norway and Finland. But that is not what we are discussing here. Nevertheless, the draft law here is a step on the way to a su system that makes more sense for many more young people. I indicated in my question to Mr. Troels Ravn, that there is a great challenge with the bill here, because the part of the bill that I mentioned last does not arise from an agreement in the conciliation circle, and that is why it is in principle wrong for the government to table that bill at all since, as I have said, it is contrary to a long parliamentary tradition to respect the settlements that have been reached here in the Folketing. But I can see that the government has chosen to look at this bill with great care, since, as I said, it does not arise from an agreement within the Su-conciliation Group itself. I think that is really, really a pity, and I would like to come back to that in the course of the committee work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191435	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191439	It is actually the result of Mrs Ulla Tørnæs's speech and of the fact that Mrs Ulla Tørnæs is in any case talking about whether the Left will look at the Su level. That is why I would like to ask whether the Left believes that the sugar should be lowered.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191503	We have no plans at all to change our student support system. I can see that the government has, in addition to the conciliation circle, in that this does not arise from an agreement within the Su-conciliation Group. And how to deal with it must be based on the questions that I have the opportunity to ask in the course of the committee's work. I merely mentioned that our fellowships, our su, are in fact almost twice as high as they are in neighbouring countries, with which we often compare ourselves, even when it comes to education policy. It was just one, what can be said, listing, ascertaining the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191549	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it is the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party, Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191559	Thank you. With this bill, we'll raise the su-free amount by DKK 4,000, and this will allow students to work more alongside their education if they want to, without being dragged into su. And that means that there are more students who can get rid of the concern of having to pay back something su if they have worked too much or earned too much. And I am glad that we can ensure that there are some students who do not have that concern in the future. I am also glad that this means that if you get a raise on your job or some particular statement from your employer, you should not be drawn in su. I also think it is very good that we can have a flexible system where we can work more, if at the same time we consider that we are not in such a hurry with our studies or are cutting down for a period of time. But it is also crucial for us that with this bill we do not send out a wrong signal to both students and employers about how much students can take on and at the same time take on their education. Being a student is a full-time job, and it should not affect the student's study activity, because it is not intended that the possibility of working more alongside the study should lead to distrust and apostasy, but rather that we can ensure more flexibility for students without being dragged into the habit. So, of course, we also need to pay attention in the future to the quality challenges that may be involved in this bill. But the purpose of the bill is really good. We are pleased to be able to ensure that students are given more flexibility and, in particular, that the transition to employment for new graduates can become more fluid and give them a closer link with the labour market, we think is very good. And that is why, of course, we support the bill. It is also part of a larger agreement that we have made with a broad majority in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191800	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191804	Thank you. Last week we also discussed a change in Su legislation. It was a proposal tabled by the Enhedslisten and in the rapporteur's speech, when we discussed the resolution, I listened to the fact that the SF's rapporteur actually agreed with the Enhedslisten's proposal, at least very far along the way, but rejected it, given that it was not a proposal that arose from discussions within the Su-congregation. That brings me to the same question that I actually put to the Social Democrat rapporteur: does the SF think that this is the only way to look at the agreements we are making here and which form the basis for the work we are doing here? And here, of course, I am thinking of the su-conciliation that SF is also part of, in the light of the bill here, which does not arise from an agreement within the Su-conciliation Group.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191909	Thank you. It is quite true that we dealt with a resolution last week. It was also because the economy was not entirely covered by the fact that we did not support it. But it was also because it had not been in the su-conciliation circle. I am assuming that the rapporteur has also had several e-mails sent to the Conciliation Committee, with reminders that this proposal would be vetoed. I'm pretty sure. Or at least we have been told that this bill is being put forward in relation to whether there is support, and I thought there would be support. That's why I'm standing here today backing it up. At least the SF backs this up, and I expected the Left to do so, as I have heard before that it was the policy of the Left. But if there is no majority or there is no consensus in the conciliation circle, we must, of course, hold a meeting.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191950	Mrs. Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503191952	I assume, however, that the SF rapporteur knows very well that the Left is part of the conciliation group, but not part of the agreement that this bill brings about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503192006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503192007	Yes, and that is also why in the agreement we made in January, in connection with Denmark, more can be said that we will seek support in the su-conciliation circle. If there is no support among the parties of the conciliation circle, we cannot, of course, do this until after an election.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503192020	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Radical Left, Mrs Katrine Robsøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503192030	Thank you. As I said, the bill here has two parts. There is a lot to be done in order to allow students who have made an extra effort in the area of covid-19 and in the preparations for it, of course, not to have to pay back their sus on the basis of the community service that I think they have also done by assuming responsibility along the way. And then there is the general increase in the free amount for students, which is part of an agreement we have made. I would actually like to address a few of the questions that have been raised along the way by the rapporteur, Mrs Ulla Tørnæs, and just say that we have at least been left with the comments on the draft law, that it has been agreed within the contract circle that support should be sought in the conciliation group. And it also says and now I read straight up: on the basis of the updated agreement economy, the conciliation group has agreed to the proposal. It's in the notes to the bill. If that is not correct, I think that we have a completely different challenge, which we must take very seriously, because then there has been a rather glaring error. But otherwise it will be there; at least that is what I and everyone else have been informed of on the basis of the material contained in the draft law, as far as I can see. In the Radical Left, we support this bill. There is good reason to ensure that students can be allowed and have the freedom to decide for themselves how to make their everyday life work together, so that they can also work more. But for me, it is also important that we take it seriously every time we raise the free amount, so that we do not forget that we also have an expectation for our students that they read full-time, that they are students. What is their main purpose in taking their education is that they are students and become skilled there. And then I think it's really cool if you have a good student job or some other relevant job or just want to make some money. We must be allowed and free to do so. So, of course, Radicals support the bill and I look forward to the work of the committee and the further process there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503192311	Thank you. And there are no brief comments. Thank you to the Radical rapporteur. And then I can see that the next rapporteur in the Chamber is from the Conservative People's Party. Mrs. Gitte Willumsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503192326	Thank you. Today we are discussing a draft law amending the Su Act. The proposal, in its simplicity, is that students must earn something more before they are set off in theirsu. At the Conservative People's Party we have long wanted students to have the opportunity to earn some extra money. This will increase our supply of labour and, at the same time, give young people some important experience in the labour market. We need people in almost every type of job from caring for the ice cream to taking a night shift at the local nursing home. Of course, not all jobs that students can take on. There are a number of vacant posts that require specific competences that students do not yet possess. But there are many service jobs that young people can fill with little training and guidance for the benefit of all of us, not least for themselves and their purses. Although the covid-19 no longer fills much in our consciousness, there are still some functions that need to be filled in here. A friend of my son's just got a job as a cleaning assistant in a vaccination center; it's going on at night, so I don't think students can fill that job. But there are many other features around the covid-19 that students can easily perform. We all know the grafts with the cotton needles. With the bill we give students the opportunity to earn a little extra, whereas the change in the second part will be for all recipients after New Year In the Conservative People's Party we are positive about the proposal. It's settled though, so it's a little funny that the government, along with a number of parties, has made an agreement. But we are bourgeois forces who work and we seek influence when we can get it. When something goes the way we want and there's good music in it, we'll be there. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill and we look forward to further committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503192546	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503192559	Thank you for that, President. We have a very good su system in Denmark, and with this proposal it just gets even better. There are two parts of the proposal that have been mentioned by several. On the one hand, we are extending the scheme that has been in force in 2020 and 2021, which is that the young people who have been out helping in relation to the covid-19 effort have been able to earn the money they earned without being set off in su. It's quite reasonable and quite proper, in that we've wanted someone to go out and do this. I do not know how big the problem can be in 2022 at all, because that is not because there is the great strain on the systems right now, but let us finally decide that this can be done in 2022 as well. Then there's the other part that's about increasing the free amount. In the Danish People's Party we think it is excellent to increase the free amount. We are thus of the opinion that as a student one can earn just what one can, provided that at the same time it is necessary for it to be at all possible for it to actually be a full-time student. So, besides studying these 50-60 hours a week, if you have the opportunity to make a lot of money, we think you should be allowed to keep them when you have of course just paid your taxes. But you shouldn't be set off in the su for it. Then a little discussion is going on in relation to the Su-conciliation circle. And it is true that this agreement has been reached in the first place bypassing the conciliation circle. That is why it was also part of the agreement that the conciliation group had to give its undertaking in order for this to happen. It also says here in the papers that it has been in the way it has been done, and it also says that the Su-congregation has joined. I am very much in favour of this, because otherwise, as was mentioned earlier here from the platform, we have a completely different problem. I assume we will confirm in a moment from the Minister that hopefully we do not. That said, the Danish People's Party supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503192757	Thank you. There are no brief comments. And then we are through the rapporteur's line, at least the rapporteurs present in the Chamber, and we have reached the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503192815	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. With the bill, we follow up on the agreement reached by the government with the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left and the Christian Democrats on 21 January 2022 on a new reform package, the "Friends in Jobs, a stronger labour market, investments in the future and innovative companies', including this action which the Su-forbejde has subsequently joined. That is one of the issues that the discussion that has been about here has been about, and I can come back to it. In addition to the fact that the proposal helps to increase the supply of work, the proposal allows the trainees to work more alongside the study if they so wish and to earn more money alongside the study if they so wish. The proposal is also instrumental in creating better opportunities for those seeking training in relation to the link with the labour market during the course of studies, which in many ways are positive. I am pleased that together we are providing better conditions for greater flexibility in the course of studies, but it is also important to bear in mind that the possibility of working more alongside the study without being drawn into the course alone is an offer to the trainees who want it. As has been mentioned in the discussion and also included in some of the consultation answers, it is of course the case that if you receive su and are students, that is what is central, but it may be that you can make it fit in with also earning this 4,000 kr. extra than what you can do today. Perhaps it is also because you end up with for a period of time, while studying, being able to get a relatively well-paid job, and then you can take advantage of this increased opportunity to earn more without being dragged into su, and fortunately there seems to be solid support for us to introduce that. The draft law also follows on from the agreement in the Su-conciliation Group of 21 December last year that students taking part in social critical functions as part of the Covid-19 alert should also be able to receive their free amounts increased by their income from this work by 2022. The proposal thus allows applicants for training to apply for increased free amounts for the 2022 grant year as well as for the 2020 and 2021 grant years. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party mentioned that it was probably not as many people as I was informed before, and if I remember correctly, I believe that 50 people this year have sought to be included in this. This is, of course, something less than the last two years, and let us not hope that it will be very necessary again in the autumn, but of course we cannot know what is going to happen there and what will be the need for labour in a possible pandemic reserve. But those who have profited from being part of the covid-19 alert will have the opportunity. I promised to come back to this question of the Su-Conciliation Group, which Mrs Ulla Tørnæs has mentioned a few times in the discussion here, and I was also checked before I came up here, that Mrs Ulla Tørnæs is, of course, right in saying that this is based on an agreement that the Left is not part of. That's right, and it has its very own story, I think, why it didn't work out. I think that there were such a little different parliamentary games about what would be involved in negotiations and that civil parties had promised to each other and were not really interested in showing up. But that aside. When this agreement was made, it was also agreed that the Su-conciliation Group should be consulted, and what I had checked before I came up here was the date of the e-mail sent to the Su-conciliation Group afterwards, namely on 7 March, when it was intended to obtain a commitment from the Su-conciliation Group that it was agreed with the proposal here. And as I have sensed, one should of course be careful when one senses where others are standing, it has also been a proposal which, of course, from those parties that also support it now, would actually be well-willed. It has also emerged from that hearing that there have been no protests from the parties of the Su-City in bringing forward the bill here and also implementing it. That should be a comment on that part of the debate. However, thank you for receiving the proposal and for the debate here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503193248	Thank you for that and there is a brief comment from Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503193252	It is just that for the sake of order: I think what the Minister is outlining here is a bad way of working. An agreement is being made which affects a conciliation group, but an agreement in which we know very well that this is a view that we share, and that has led us to table a motion for a resolution which has previously been before us in the Chamber. I am just taking the floor here for the Minister to have no doubt in any way that I think this is an ill-suited way of dealing with a conciliation group. But of course we find solutions to that, but it should not be unsaid that I think it is a strange way and that it is to show a lack of respect for those parties which otherwise help to fulfil important tasks in the Su sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503193344	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503193348	It has been received, and this is not, of course, the case most often; Mrs Ulla Tørnæs is right about that. Here I also tried to tell you how it has its own little history that this agreement ended up being made between the parties it did. Despite the fact that the Left has also expressed an interest in making reforms and helping to increase labour supply, it was difficult for the Minister of Finance at the time to get the party actually involved in those negotiations. But Mrs Ulla Tørnæs is right that this is not the most frequent way of doing it, and I have heard the criticism here and should just remind you that, of course, we have also heard the conciliation circle afterwards, and if there had been other answers to the hearing than those that came, the matter would of course have been different from what it is now that we can implement the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503193441	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220503193456	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 4 May 2022, kl. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
