ParlaMint-DK_20220222130002	The meeting is open. May I have some privacy in the Chamber? Members of the Folketing Karina Adsbøl, Lise Bech, Liselott Blixt, Bent Bøgsted and Hans Kristian Skibby have informed me that they have resigned from the Danish People's Party Parliamentary Group. These members shall then stand as per the date of entry into force of this Agreement. today's date outside the groups. The Danish People's Party Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed Merete Dea Larsen as a member of the South Schleswig Committee from 21 February 2022 instead of Martin Henriksen. Today there are the following reviews, and on the basis of the many submissions I shall not read the titles: Henrik Dam Kristensen (S), Karen Ellemann (V), Pia Kjærsgaard (DF), Trine Torp (SF) and Rasmus Helveg Petersen (RV): Bill no. L 130 (Proposal for a law amending the law on the establishment of a system of citizens' proposals for consideration by the Folketing. Samira Nawa (RV), Astrid Carøe (SF), Pernille Skipper (EL) and Torsten Gejl (ALT) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 91 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an experimental system with a more equal representation of women on board boards). Sikandar Siddique (FG) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 92 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of equal pay certification for jobs with more than 25 employees), motion for a resolution No. B 102 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on granting humanitarian refuge to people on the grounds of extreme climate and environmental change) and motion for a resolution No. B 103 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the extension of electoral law). Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 93 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the implementation of a national leisure transport scheme for citizens with dementia). Jacob Jensen (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 95 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to increase the annual allocation for the regions' work on soil clean-up). Uffe Elbæk (FG), Jan Bjergskov Larsen (SF), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Rosa Lund (EL) and Torsten Gejl (ALT): Motion for a resolution No. B-96 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a centre for the development of democracy and citizen involvement). Martin Geertsen (V) et al.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 97 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on better medical coverage), motion for a resolution No. B 98 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on strengthening patients' rights) and motion for a resolution No. B 99 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on common national quality standards for the municipal health sector). Pernille Skipper (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 100 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to denounce unequivocally the Polish legislation on abortion). Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 104 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on grazing cattle). Uffe Elbæk (FG) and Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV): Motion for a resolution No. B 105 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the setting up of an experiment with a citizen's right in the Folketing). Anni Matthiesen (V) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 106 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on alternative accommodation provision in rural areas and local outdoor initiatives). Per Larsen (KF) and Mona Juul (KF): Request no. F 33 (What are the government's plans to prevent the high mortality rate of col in Denmark, and will the government set up a new Prevention Commission to prevent the major folk diseases such as: Kol?). Lotte Rod (RV) and Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV): Request no. F 34 (What can the government say about materials at school, including books, paints, wood, etc., as well as the importance of digital platforms, and how will the government promote that students' everyday life in school is characterised by imagination and enthusiasm, including in materials?), Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Doc. F 35 (Will the Minister explain Danish research in recreational education, and what will the Minister do to promote recreational education research?), Question No 1, by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Doc. F 36 (Will the Minister explain the development of children's opportunities for risky play in day care and schools and in playgrounds, and what will the Minister do to promote play through inter alia: junkyards? ) and Query No. F 39 (What will the government do to promote the recruitment and retention of educators in this year's agreement with the municipalities, including among others: through cooperation on credit training, pedagogy intro for assistants, full-time positions, senior and combination positions between institution and pedagogy training?). Mort Messerschmidt (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF): Request no. F 37 (Will the Minister explain the government's view that the third gang-related crime is sentenced to life?). Susanne Zimmer (FG) and Sikandar Siddique (FG): Request no. F 38 (How does the government respond to a number of countries' calls to add ecomords (ecocide) to the Rome Statute, which is the legal basis of the International Criminal Court, and what does the government intend to do in relation to the possibility of adding ecomords to the Statute in the light of ecological crises and the inadequate means of criminalising acts leading to natural and climate degradation?). Charlotte Broman Mølbæk (SF) and Trine Torp (SF): Request no. F 40 (How does the government relate to the fact that children in vulnerable positions do not get the help they need in the nursery and kindergarten, cf. The Danish Evaluation Institute's national mapping of municipalities' supportive work with children in vulnerable positions in daily offers, and what will the government do to correct this and ensure that children in vulnerable positions are adequately supported?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). On 11 February 2022, the Committee on Children's and Education issued: Report on instructions to the Government to convene, as soon as possible, tripartite discussions as a result of the consequences of the covid-19 infection in the field of day care.12 The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222130239	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222130314	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 43 of Christian Rabjerg Madsen (S), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (S), against 73 (V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG and ALT), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 43 has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 42 by Morten Messerschmidt (DF), Morten Dahlin (V) and Per Larsen (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of voting 46 (V, KF, DF, NB, LA and FG), against 57 (S, SF, RV, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 42 has been rejected. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 44 by Lisbeth Bech-Nielsen-Nielsen (SF), Samira Nawa (RV), Peder Hvelplund (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT) and Jens Rohde (KD), and voting is possible. The vote will end. In favour of 28 (SF, RV, EL, FG and ALT), against 75 (S, V, KF, DF, NB and LA), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 44 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222130456	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222130524	Amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222130533	Thank you. On behalf of the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left, I should like to ask for the L 93 to be suspended. It is a very complicated proposal, a very technical proposal, and it is the case that there have been amendments outside the report, which we need to examine more closely and, as we have understood, it has not been in consultation, and that means that we need to round them one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222130604	It has now been proposed that the debate on L 93 be suspended and I shall see if anyone else wishes to speak. There isn't. Now we are a little bit more out in the corner of the Rules of Procedure, which is why it is difficult for me to see whether there is a majority in favour or against it. That is why my proposal will be that we vote on it. In other words, we are now voting on interruptions and, if you want the debate to be interrupted, you have to vote green. If you do not want the treatment to be interrupted, you have to vote red.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222130641	We are now voting on the interruption of the L 93 and we are in favour of it, we are voting green, we are against it, we are voting red and we can vote for it. As I have said, we are out in the corner of the Rules of Procedure, and therefore the vote must be put right into the system so that it takes just a moment before we can vote. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt Why should there be a vote when no one has spoken against it? ) Because I have decided! Applause in the Chamber No one has spoken against it, that is quite correct. I could also choose the other one, but I think it is most correct to take a vote on it, and it is, of course, my decision to take a vote on it. It can be voted on now. And I repeat: if you want the debate to be interrupted, you have to vote green and if you do not want it to be interrupted, you have to vote red. Here you go, vote. The vote will end. In favour 37 (SF, RV, EL, DF, LA, FG and ALT) voted against 64 (S, V and KF), abstained 1 (NB) (by mistake). The proposal has been rejected, and so we shall continue the debate. I would like to explain why I chose to make that decision. If it had been a resolution on general referral back to committee, there would have been no discussion. This was a matter of principle, and that's why I chose this decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222130822	Samira Nawa, Radical Left, wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222130840	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, I would ask that the proposal be returned to committee between the second and third readings, and I would also ask that the amendments tabled by the Minister outside the report, which Mrs Lorentzen has just addressed, be put to the vote. In particular, we need Amendment No. 33 will be put to the vote; I do not know whether it will stand out and be put to the vote or whether it will be all of them, but yes, the amendments tabled by the Minister will be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222130919	Thank you. And, of course, it will come back to committee. But now we first start voting. Let us start by asking: is there anyone else who wants to speak? There isn't. Then we start voting.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222130932	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (SF, RV and EL), joined by a minority (FG, IA, SIU and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (SF, RV, EL, LA, FG and ALT), against 73 (S, V, KF, DF and NB), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. Twenty-six outside the report by the Minister of Justice as adopted. It has been adopted... Is there a vote to be taken? Yeah. In other words, we shall then be voting on Amendment No. 26 outside the report by the Minister for Justice. The vote can be taken, and it is on Amendment No. Twenty-six outside the report by the Minister of Justice. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 103 (S, V, SF, RV, EL, KF, DF, NB, LA, FG and ALT), against which 0 abstained 0. It has been unanimously adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (SF, RV and EL), joined by a minority (FG, IA, SIU and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (SF, RV, EL, LA, FG and ALT), against 73 (S, V, KF, DF and NB), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 21, tabled and joined by the same minority as rejected. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (SF, RV and EL), joined by a minority (FG, IA, SIU and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (SF, RV, EL, LA, FG and ALT), against 72 (S, V, KF, DF and NB), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 5-7, 9-10, 12 and 20, tabled and joined by the same minorities as rejected. They are rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (SF, RV and EL), joined by a minority (FG, IA, SIU and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (SF, RV, EL, LA, FG and ALT), against 73 (S, V, KF, DF and NB), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (SF, RV and EL), joined by a minority (FG, IA, SIU and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (SF, RV, EL, LA, FG and ALT), against 73 (S, V, KF, DF and NB), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 11 and 13, tabled and joined by the same minority as rejected. They are rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 27 and 28 outside the report by the Minister of Justice as adopted. They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 14 of a minority (SF, RV and EL), joined by a minority (FG, IA, SIU and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (SF, RV, EL, LA, FG and ALT), against 73 (S, V, KF, DF and NB), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 15 of a minority (SF, RV and EL), joined by a minority (FG, IA, SIU and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)). A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (SF, RV, EL, LA, FG and ALT), against 72 (S, V, KF, DF and NB), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 29 outside the report adopted by the Minister for Justice. It's agreed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 16 and 17 members of the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 18 of a minority (SF, RV and EL), joined by a minority (FG, IA, SIU and Simon Emil Ammitzbøll-Ammitzbøll-Bille (UFG)), and a vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour of 30 (SF, RV, EL, LA, FG and ALT), against 72 (S, V, KF, DF and NB), abstentions 0. It has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 19 and 23, tabled and joined by the same minority as rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 30 and 31 outside the report by the Minister for Justice on Amendment No. 22. adopted by the Committee on Amendment No 22. I should like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is prepared to accept this amendment. 24, to be elected by the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 33 outside the report by the Minister for Justice. A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 71 (S, V, KF and DF), against 32 (SF, RV, EL, NB (by mistake), LA, FG, ALT and 1 V (by mistake)) voted neither in favour nor against 0. It's agreed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 34 on the report by the Minister for Justice or on Amendment No. 34 on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and on Amendment No. 34 on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and on Amendment No. 34 on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and on Amendment No. They are adopted. It has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed. There is no more to be voted on in this sitting so that those who do not wish to take part in the negotiations are asked to leave the sitting.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222131831	The debate is open. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222131859	If you visit any management office in Denmark, the probability of meeting a top manager named Christian or Peter is greater than the probability of meeting a woman. It is an apt description of how equal opportunities stand in Denmark. This is a pity, and it is particularly regrettable because we are missing out on talents that would qualify the decision-making processes in management processes in both public and private jobs. As an attempt to push developments, it was decided in 2012 to establish rules on target numbers and policies for the gender composition of managements and boards. The rules required the largest Danish private companies as well as all state institutions and companies with a board of directors to set targets and draw up policies to strengthen the gender composition in the other management layers. However, an evaluation from 2017 showed that the rules had limited effect; an evaluation which unfortunately did not give the then government the opportunity to revisit the rules and push further on developments. That is why I am pleased that the first legislative proposal put forward by the new Minister for Gender Equality is precisely about strengthening the gender composition of management and boards of public institutions and companies. The draft law together contains four elements. Firstly, it is proposed that the obligation to set targets for gender composition should be extended to senior management levels in addition to boards and other collective management bodies. Secondly, it is proposed to extend the target group of public institutions to include the largest municipal communities, regional hospitals, municipalities and regions, as well as ministries, state institutions and companies which do not have a board of directors or any other collective management body. Thirdly, it is proposed that the demands of the Equal Opportunities Act on the composition of women and men on boards and managements should be standardized so that all institutions and companies involved should strive for a gender balance. This means that in future all binding institutions and companies will have to set targets in order to achieve a gender balance with a distribution of at least 40 and 60%. Unlike today, some institutions and businesses have to strive for a balanced composition of the sexes, where the under-represented sex has to be one third. Fourthly, it is proposed to increase the transparency of target figures and developments by establishing a publicly available website in which the reported information on target figures and policies of the binding institutions and companies is published. A balanced gender composition is crucial for the quality of the decision-making processes in the Danish management channels. Big social problems can only be solved if we have the best and best qualified decision-makers around the table. That is why it is also important to push the agenda, not only for the sake of women who are excluded because of their gender, but also for the sake of the competitiveness of businesses and society as a whole. For social democracy, equality is heart blood. It is a fundamental issue of freedom and equal opportunities. Individuals' opportunities in the education system or in working life should not be dependent on gender. It is not the gender that determines whether one can become a skilled top leader, even in relation to whether one can become a skilled educator or a skilled electrician. At the same time, it is important to make it clear that the fight for equality must not only be fought in management, but also at construction sites and in day-care institutions, where we urgently need to expand the talent pool. Against this background, I should like to say that the Social Democracy can of course support the bill, and I would also like to welcome Mrs Pernille Skip, who is unfortunately ill with corona, and say that the Enhedslisten also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222132228	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and that means that we can move on to Mrs Maja Torp, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222132248	Thank you. There is still a good deal of way to equality in top management, boards and the like, and that is a pity because diversity creates added value. More nuances simply appear in the decision-making framework when decisions are to be taken and it qualifies decisions. At the same time, for the Left, it is absolutely fundamental that everyone should have the opportunity to live out the potential they have whether it is men or whether it is women. With the proposal put forward by the government here, work must be done to promote a balanced gender composition on boards and managers in the public sector, businesses with more than one happen by imposing a commitment on those who have 50 or more employees. They must therefore set targets for senior management levels, other management levels and boards, and at the same time they must be published on a website. In the Left, we think the intention is good, because we must really be talking about quotas is also reinforced by the fact that at the same time the Minister is proposing to support the EU directive on a target figure for women on boards of 40 per cent. Because, with a target figure, there is an opportunity to sanction the company if it does not meet the target number, and so, in our opinion, this will not be voluntary. I have no doubt that all of us in this Chamber can see the benefits of multiple managements and boards, and I have no doubt that we agree that we generally consider women to be as qualified and competent as men. Of course, we still have to look away at why the number of women in top management is lagging behind, but we politicians cannot change the situation alone, and it is crucial that companies themselves realise that diversity in management and boards is a positive step in the right direction and that they therefore choose to take an active part in promoting that development. We in the Left think that we also see a great many examples of companies wanting more women to enter the management channels and on the boards, and the debate we have here, we in the Left also believe, to promote awareness that there is a great deal of talent out there of women who can be more involved and, at the very least, an awareness that having diversity adds value. In this case, the position of the Left differs from that of the government when it comes to the tools to create a framework for multiple management, because we do not believe that legislation is the right way forward, we believe that there should be limits to how much politicians should interfere in the operation of private companies, and this is particularly important in these times of struggle to recruit labour. For the Left, it is crucial that qualifications and competences are taken into account first and foremost when recruiting managers and board members in state companies, institutions and companies. To sum up, I would like to say that we in the Left believe that it is extremely sensible for both Danish companies and the public sector to take a position on the responsibility they have as part of society, but we do not want to impose stricter targets on public organisations or private companies. We still believe that the solution must be found through voluntary action and by paving the way much earlier. For example, it may be in the educational choices that we need to motivate more women to choose courses that give a more direct way to management, and at the same time we need to look at what kind of framework we create for the family, so that it can actually be done for both women and men to participate in board work and take management positions. That is why we in the Left cannot vote in favour of the draft law as it stands today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222132714	There are brief comments. First it is Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222132718	Thank you for your speech and also for all the good words, in that you actually agree with the intention here and also pay tribute to the diversity and diversity of management as an objective we are really going towards. But I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left about something now that nothing has happened to these, what should we say, a little softer initiatives over time. Since nothing has happened, I think that, when we pay tribute to the intention and objective of equality, we owe it to us to answer what it takes if it is not these target figures, if it is not quotas, which, by the way, I think is quite different from what is in this draft law. The rapporteur answers that it is something about educational choices and such things, but we must also recognise that women are so I still think that one owes an answer to what the solution really is.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222132819	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222132820	In relation to the choice of education, we also know that there are some courses that create a more direct route to management. In other words, if, for example, we are over in STEM training, there are more there who become managers, where, compared with many of the training courses taken by women, it is such that it may not be so much the direct route to top management posts and boards. So there's something we can look at. In relation to quotas, we can see from the experience in Norway that it seems to work, because of course the Norwegian boards are forced to meet certain target numbers or quotas, but we can also see from the evaluations that have been made that the same women are on the boards. And in some places you also get it done in such a way that you a little bypass what is the intention, where it may just be a spouse who is also just being written into a board of directors etc. And it can be said: is there really more equality? So quotas are still not the way forward for us. And it does not say directly here that it is quotas, but when it is the case that sanctions can be followed up if you do not meet the targets, then we see it as the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222132935	Thank you. Mrs. Samira Nawa, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222132935-2	Thank you. Then I have a slightly different question. After all, there is an EU directive on the way in which there has been a blocking minority on this issue, but it seems to be a little disintegrating. And at least I know the Left as an EU-enthusiastic party, which is also proud and happy about the things that come from the European Union. What is the Left's position on that directive?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133003	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133003-2	However, as I mentioned in my speech, we think that, in relation to this, there are sanctions if we do not meet the target figures, that we are over in quotas. At the same time, it can be said that there are also just some industries where it is really, really difficult to get such a large share of women, just as in other industries it can be difficult to get such a large share of men. We do not think that is being taken into account here either. So for some industries, it can be almost impossible to measure up to these targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133034	Then it's mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133038	Thank you. And thank you for your speech and welcome to the rapporteur; I think this is the first debate. I would like to ask whether the rapporteur, like the rapporteur, recognises that it is a problem when on some boards there are one sixth or a quarter women, given that 50%. of the population are women. And as the rapporteur from the Radical Left has also said, women are quite well aware of the level of education. In other words, if the rapporteur acknowledges this, are there any other things that the Left, like it thinks, can be done rather than looking at education?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133104	Well, we very much recognise that it is a challenge that we do not have any more equality on boards, for as I started by saying, it just gives more qualified decisions if it is that the people who sit on boards are not exactly alike. This applies, of course, to diversity at all. It can relate to age, gender, ethnicity, etc. So it is clear that, in our opinion, it will give more qualified decisions because you get more angles. Compared to what you can do, I was talking about education, but we can also see that when we ask women why it is they don't want to do this top management job or to spend some of their freedom on board work, it can sometimes be about there being no care for their children at night. There may be some very low-practical challenges that we should also have looked at as a society. Are we really giving women and men equal opportunities to participate? Well, there's also a food chain in this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133207	Thank you. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133208	I understood from the rapporteur that there was a little conspiracy, that perhaps some quotas had to be sneaked in through the back door. But now we are dealing with this issue of target numbers, and the Left is generally in favour of a great deal of openness in the administration, and we must also see what grades schools have, how many pupils have been thrown out, and such a thing, in other words, in general, that there must be openness about the offers that are available. Would it not be fair, from a liberal point of view, to actually make a few targets in which the Left might see itself, in other words where it is actually quite okay to know what companies are doing in terms of getting women on the board when the rapporteur himself says that they agree with the intention?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133242	Yes, and you can continue to do so, and you do so in many places too, so they are still free to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133251	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Astrid Carøe, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133300	Thank you. It is a widespread myth that we in Denmark have the lead when it comes to gender equality. And when we compare ourselves with our Nordic neighbours, we are hopelessly far behind. In 2021 we rustled down the global equality list, and in just a year we went from being no. 14 to be no. 29 in the world. And as if it is not bad enough in itself, we are now number 101 globally when it comes to equal representation in our managements around the country. There is no doubt that we are lagging very far behind, and that is not good enough. In the SF, we have long been calling for openness on equality in both the private and the public, because we cannot continue as we are doing now. If we do not use tougher means, it will take 102 years for us to reach a fairly equal representation of men and women in managements, and neither I nor the rest of the SF will wait for that. We therefore fully agree that we must strengthen our legislation in this area. It has not been effective enough, and we therefore also agree that the measurement obligations must, of course, include the top management levels and many more state institutions. It makes only good sense, as well as that the target figures must of course be publicly available, so that together we can keep up with the developments that hopefully come. In the SF, we are therefore very pleased with the Minister's proposal and, of course, we agree with the draft law, because this is a very good step on the way. But I have to stress that it is really important that we do not see this as an opportunity to sit back and let time pass. For although it is undoubtedly positive that the target figures now receive a much needed facelift, we must keep a close eye on how effective they are. In the SF we therefore think it is absolutely essential that we evaluate these requirements as soon as possible, and as soon as it makes sense, to see whether this brings about a real change, and that we talk about possible consequences as soon as possible by failing to meet the target figures, which are not, of course, in this draft law. We need to use more stringent means... we cannot continue to lag so hopelessly behind. As I said, the proposal here is a step in the right direction, but there is still a long way to go. In recent years, I have shown that equality does not come naturally, and I am therefore looking forward to a continuing exciting and important debate, both in relation to the issue of target numbers and also real gender quotas, which has been opened up in the European Union over the last few days. I think it would be a shame for us to let the European Union come and save us once again in the area of equality, but we are taking that with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133554	There are brief comments. First, it's sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133556	Thank you. Since SF is so fond of targets for companies and the public, what are SF's targets for men in their parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133609	We would like to see a balanced distribution. At the moment, we do not have it. We had a completely equal distribution of candidates and more women were elected than men were elected. But in the vast majority of history there have been more men than women, in the same way as there are also significantly more men than women in the Folketing as a whole. So I don't see it as the big problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133627	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133628	No, you don't see it as the big problem, because in SF's parliamentary group there are 4 men out of 16 in total and then it's not a problem. But when there are more men than women, then suddenly it is a problem, and then targets must be set in one place and the other place. But it becomes a little hypocritical if you do not want to set targets and follow them when you think that business and the public should follow these targets. Shouldn't SF take the lead in meeting these targets? And what do you do specifically to actually follow them up, or do you just have to say that people have to do it even if out there, and then there are those who are being voted in? But when you mean it, why do you want to get involved in companies if you do not think that we and all sorts of others should interfere in the distribution of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133709	The rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133710	In other words, if it was the case that, year by year, there were significantly more women than men in the SF parliamentary group, then I think we should do something. It is in the same way that we had quotas in the SF, as there were very few women in the SF management battles and in the SF parliament group. But it is not a systematic problem. That is one thing we have at the moment. And, by the way, unfortunately, we only have 15 members of parliament, not 16.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133734	Mrs Birgitte Bergman, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133736	Thank you. Now I know a little about the rapporteur, and the rapporteur is a good young woman who came to Parliament at the same time as myself, and I have great respect for the rapporteur and the work done by the rapporteur. But I have to say, here we divide the waters. Because does the rapporteur really believe that we women need special rules, quotas, so that we can manage in the Danish economy in order to be able to do politically? And would the rapporteur like to be invited to Deadline as a woman or as a politician?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133817	Thank you for that, and thank you for the rose, and you too. I also think the rapporteur is doing very well. I do not think that this is the only place where we share the waters; the rapporteur and I often disagree very much. I'd like to be chosen according to my skills. Right now, a lot of men are elected because they are men, because we automatically as people choose people who look like ourselves. So when there are men on board, when there are men on the management hall, they choose men, just as women choose women. Women just aren't sitting on management channels at the moment, and I think it's really good that in Deadline, for example. Have looked into: Okay, we only invite 20%. Women enter, and that is a huge problem when they are 50%. We must do something about that. I don't see it like I'm being invited in because I'm a woman. I see it as being invited in because you have good skills, but they have just thought in the Deadline that it is a good idea to bring women in too, so that we do not always use the same men as we have always done.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133911	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133913	So the rapporteur would be satisfied to be offered a job on the basis that the rapporteur is a woman and not on the basis of his competences? What I was actually asking was if Deadline called the rapporteur and invited the rapporteur on the basis that the rapporteur is a woman and not on the basis that the rapporteur is a politician. That is what the rapporteur has to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133933	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222133934	But that's not what's happening. We are not going to see a situation where incompetent women enter boards. There are more women than men taking long higher education today, and they still don't get away on boards. There are research and studies that show that it will take 102 years, even if women are at the same level of education as men, and that is because we automatically take people who look like ourselves in our heads. That's why it's good to shake this up, and that's what we're doing with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134003	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134005	After all, it is always good to stick to what you know, and we who are here know the most about politics and parties, and we all know that in politics it is not an obstacle to being a woman to get to the top and to become a candidate and to be elected. We all know that in this Chamber, and in some parties in particular, it may even be beneficial to be a woman if you want to be elected. What does the rapporteur know about this in business companies? Try, for example. to mention three business companies where men are promoted because they are men. Well, what the rapporteur said is happening out there. So I'd like to hear about, for example. Three companies that promote men because they are men.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134048	First of all, I think I'd like to flatten the myth that it should be easier to be a woman in politics. I think we have seen quite a lot of examples of why women are being pushed out over the last 18 months, partly on the basis of methodological issues and all sorts of other things that have made it quite difficult to be a woman in politics. And we can also see that we in the Folketing still do not have an equal distribution, even if there is 50 per cent. women in Denmark. In relation to companies, I would say that I will not choose three specific companies, but I can point to research, the main gender researchers, who say that this is a problem. We have a problem with choosing people who look just like us systematically. That's what's happening up in our heads. When you have to choose people for a job interview, for a board of directors, you choose people who look like you, and when there are only men on boards, you also keep choosing men. This is what we have seen over the last many, many years, even though more women have entered and now more women than men have entered long higher education and into the training that creates management positions. So I am not standing here saying something that is not supported, but there is research behind it, and there are gender researchers who say that this is a solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134152	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134155	Yes, it is not good to have a debate on the basis of such claims, which we know are not true, and everyone in politics knows that it is certainly not harder to be elected as a woman in politics than it is as a man. I can speak for my own party; we have an active effort to get more women to run. We don't have any active effort to get men to run. They're coming all by themselves. So that is the way it is in politics, and I think it is a little too bad when we talk about something as serious as discrimination on grounds of gender, that the rapporteur cannot then mention a single place in the real world in this large country with 5.8 million inhabitants, where it can be said that companies discriminate against women.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134234	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134235	I think it is a pity that the rapporteur says that real research, which has been documented, is loose claims. I think that is quite unfair to the researchers who have generated this research on which we are building these proposals. It's great that the Liberal Alliance is working to get more women into politics. It is also a problem we have, and it must also be frustrating for the Liberal Alliance itself and in their parliamentary group to have 100%. men. So it's a good thing you work with it. I think we should base these debates on research, and when gender researchers say that this is a problem, there are real challenges, because you choose people who look like you, and we can solve it with, among other things. I think we should do this and also real gender quotas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134317	Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134318	Thank you. I think the rapporteur forgot to answer Mrs Birgitte Bergman's question about what it would be like to be invited to Deadline because you are a woman, but now is the possibility of that. In addition, I would like to ask something else. Let's say we're three people in here who put our entire savings into a limited company and that it's actually going really, really well, and that we appoint a board to look after our money. be a board of three men or three women for that matter and that then some other people, in this case the state, will come and say: No, they should not take care of your money; it is some other people who should. Does the rapporteur think that it is a reasonable degree of freedom to pull it over your head?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134403-2	You're very interested in what I'm going to answer the question, whether I want to go to Deadline because I'm a woman. No, I will not; I will in the Deadline because I have some competences. But I think it is a good thing that Deadline is considering whether you always choose men, when there are also women who have the same competences, and that is why I think it is very good that you work with them, among other things. Deadline and also in the debate and all sorts of other television programmes. Soon we will have to discuss target numbers in private companies, so we can take it now, but this is really about public companies. I think it's really good that you get the bag shaken. So small a board of directors I'm pretty sure won't be involved in this, but that in the big companies in Denmark, who are actually there, where we have the biggest problems, you have shaken the bag and just have thought about whether you can do something for diversity, I think is really sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134449	Sir. Preben Bang Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134451	Yes, that is fine, but that does not change the principle that there are suddenly some other people who have to manage the money that Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Mrs Birgitte Bergman and I have invested in this company. Can we not find out for ourselves who is best at taking care of our money? Should the state be able to say: It should not be the ones you have decided, it should be some completely different people? Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134518	You must definitely be allowed to decide who is to sit on that board. By the way, this is also about target numbers, so you also have to decide for yourself what targets you set for your board of directors for how many of the under-represented sex you should have in it. Yeah, you can decide for yourself. No one comes and says, "You must choose that man and that man." But you have to think about the diversity of the board. It's 50 percent. women in this country and many competent among them.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134540	I do not see that there are any more short remarks. That is why we thank the rapporteur and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134558	Thank you, President. Equality is an important value not only for the Radical Left, but also for the wider community, and I won't take everyone for income in the Folketing, in the people and in Denmark. It is nevertheless as if, every time there is equality on the agenda, some ditches are dug, and they are often dug deeper than they have been in the past. I am very annoyed because it is of course as if we basically agree with the objective that we want a country in which equality lives well. It's just not like that today. For me and for the Radical Left, equality is equal opportunities, and that is not the case today. Women and men do not have the same opportunities to sit around the board table, for example. Numerous studies have been carried out on this. It is also the case that very specific experiments have been carried out. Here you have used the same resume, the same description of a business idea and sent it off with a male name and a woman's name respectively. It is the case that both men and women judge men as dynamic and strong when they read a man's application, and men and women evaluate the same application, but sent with a woman's name as: Ah, she is slightly dominant and also slightly annoying. So there is a difference, and that means that there is no real equality of opportunity. For me, equality is about creating equal opportunities. When we look at where Denmark ranks on the global world ranking list, it is the case that on this issue, which is about women in management and in executive positions, there are 100 countries ahead of us. In other words, there are 100 countries that are better than Denmark in terms of equality. I think that's pretty crazy. Some of what I am also encountering in this debate, and which was also raised just now in the question of whether, if you had been elected because you are a woman, you would have been in the Deadline if you had been elected because you are a woman, is this about the fact that being a woman is in some way put up as a contradiction to being competent. So this is not always the case. One can easily be both woman and competent, have the right education and all the right qualifications, and yet be elected away because of what I started by mentioning, namely that there are differences between men and women. In the Radical Left, we tabled a motion for a resolution, B 91, as I remember, long before we knew about corona, and the government voted against the resolution. But we made a good deal that we should keep looking down that clue about target numbers. And I would like to thank the government for bringing this to me, albeit with some delay. But I understand that when there has been the particular situation of corona, and when, moreover, the companies have had much else to think about, but now we are here with some target figures. In the meantime, we in the Radical Left have gone a step further and we would like to discuss real quotas, so that we can also push developments and get equality more quickly than in 102 years' time, as the rapporteur for the SF said. We don't think there's time to wait for that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134940	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222134941	I really need to hold on to this table right now. I think there was so much wrong interpretation. I am provoked as a woman by the rapporteur's speech. I think that the rapporteur is under-authorising us women and I think that the rapporteur is suggesting that we should have special help because we cannot do it ourselves. Does the rapporteur really think that women cannot do it themselves? That was one question. The second question is in relation to quotas and what the rapporteur is proposing with a resolution that will come later. I simply cannot comprehend why the Radical Left is now agreeing to introduce quotas; once again, we are undermining women's rights. Does the rapporteur really believe that this will have the right effect as the rapporteur wishes? The rapporteur obviously wants a country where we are fifty-fifty in total is not the reverse equality? Is it not a paradox in the whole discussion that we should be allowed to choose and make our own choices?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135054	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135055	Well, if that speech can cause the Conservative rapporteur to waver and have to hold on to the edge of the table, then it really does emphasise very well what I started by saying, namely that when it comes to equality, we just have very different positions, although I think that it must be for Conservatives about equality. No, I do not think that we are empowering women; I think that we are giving women the same opportunities that men have had for a very long time. And when I stand here and say that men are elected because they are men, that men are seen differently and better, as dynamic and strong leaders, because they are men, it is because women are some steps backwards in advance and, for example, in the past. I don't even have access to that boardroom. Then I would rather that a woman should be subject to quotas or now we are talking about targets here and then maintain her position on the basis of her competences.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135204	Thank you. Mrs. Birgitte Bergman, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135205	This always ends in that it's as if women aren't competent. Of course, women are competent. Women themselves must also have the desire and the courage to go after these positions. We can all agree on that. What I object to is that it should not be the case that we women can do it themselves. We should not have some special legislation and a special hand. That's why we're being impelled. So let me ask the rapporteur: would the rapporteur really like to be nominated for a board post on the basis of being a woman, on the basis of his gender, and not on the basis of his competences?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135242	Now the Conservative rapporteur is doing exactly what I tried to address in my speech, namely to stand up for it as if being a woman is opposed to having the competences. I imagine that if someone called me and asked if I wanted to sit on a board, they did so first and foremost because I had the skills. But it's quite okay that they also look at the sex and say: hey, we actually have quite a lot of men sitting in here, so maybe we should have a woman on board too. And I feel that women have the courage, they have the ambitions and they have the qualifications. They just don't come around the table because they're women.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135318	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135318-2	Skills are something you develop during a career with an educational choice and then the jobs you have then you develop skills. And that means that the prerequisite for getting the right skills to be a certain place is that the right things have been done along the way. And if there is a difference between how many men do the things that need to be in order to be in a particular place and how many women do the things that need to be in order to be in a place, then there are gender-specific differences in competences. If you had an ambition that 50%. of the nurses in Denmark should be men, one had to conclude that that goal could only be achieved if some people who did not have the skills to be a nurse were taken. So you can't just shake your head like that and say: there's no difference between competences. ♪ 'Cause there's a... ♪
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135411	I think that makes sense. I just don't hear that there are a lot of male trained nurses who can't be allowed to work as a nurse because they're men. But it is the case that there are women with skills, with ambition, with the courage to enter a board that is elected from because they are women. And that is the difference when you look at the nursing profession, which, in fact, is mainly made up of women, in relation to management posts, where there are mainly men.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135443	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135444	However, there are more men than women who are striving to acquire the skills needed to get a position in business and a board of directors. There are more men than women who take the education that it takes. There are more men than women who set the family aside and dedicate themselves to work in a way that goes beyond family life. So there is and it doesn't have to be, but it does require that there are women who start to strive for the same thing as what men strive for if you think they should. It is not certain that they will if they do not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135520	I really do not think that targets are going to do it alone either. That is why I am very pleased that we also have an agreement on more earmarked maternity leave for men, so that some of the other tasks in the home are also distributed more equally. For it is true that if you give different priorities, you will also see different results. And I'm not here to tell you that we need a fifty-fifty distribution on every board, and the result has finally been achieved. No, what I want is equal opportunities, so that when you send an application with a woman's name and a man's name respectively, you should not be judged differently because one is a man.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135600	Sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135603	Now the rapporteur mentions that there are women who have been separated to a position solely because of their sex. That's a pretty monstrous accusation. It's illegal. So does the rapporteur know how many cases have been raised about this? Does the rapporteur know how many people have actually reported this? If there are companies which separate people on the grounds of gender alone, then we already have legislation that forbids it. So how many cases is that? The rapporteur said that there are many women who are rejected on their own because of their sex? What kind of statistics is that? How many trials are there? How many accusations are based on what one actually has as evidence to back up the claim as it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135653	It is of course very relevant, and the rapporteur is quite right to say that if you say very clearly that someone is being sorted out here because he is a man or a woman, then we have legislation against it. But the reason why we're gonna have this law on target numbers is because it's also cultural and structural. We're gonna have to have a fight with that. This was one of the things that the rapporteur from the SF, among others, has done. also mentioned how we are arranged and how there is this rip rap rup effect as it is called, i.e. a tendency to choose those that are most similar to you. And there is also the tendency to assess men better than women, despite having the same competences. No, it is not going to be black and white in some refusal, but it is going to be reflected because it is deep in our culture and is generally a structural problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135749	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135750	That is also very good, but that is just not what the rapporteur said. The rapporteur said that there were women who were single-handedly sorted out and did not get positions based on their sex, and that is something other than having some unconscious bias in terms of how you look at things. I recognize that in society, of course it does. But that is not what the rapporteur said. That is why I am responding to what the rapporteur said. The rapporteur specifically said that women are rejected solely on the basis of their gender. My second question is on something else. I mean, this is about government boards. In many of the boards there are some democratically elected politicians. Does this also mean that democratically elected men who have been elected cannot now enter these boards, even if they are democratically elected, or should politicians be freed from it again, or should they be included in it? And who's gonna decide if they can get in?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135837	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135838	What I said earlier in relation to the unconscious bias is not different from the other thing I said about women being elected from. Because that is precisely the consequence. The consequence of this is that there is a structure and a culture of how we assess men in relation to women who have exactly the same competences, as it turns out quite specifically in some cases, where it ends up with some being elected and others being elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135912	Thank you. Then I have no more questioners on the list, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Birgitte Bergmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222135925	Let me make it clear that I would like to see more women in board and management positions, and I recognise that there are challenges. We see it, among other things. with young women entrepreneurs: just 8%. of new companies are started by women under 35, while 27 per cent. is started by men in the same age group. Equality is a fundamental Danish value that we must safeguard and fight for, and the debate is important. I am not one of those who believe that women have very specific competences. But I believe that diversity in management is important and that it produces better results when employees with different educations, genders and experiences and profiles work together. Unfortunately, the Socialist Government has turned on a plate and is now backing the EU's demand for 40%. women on boards of major companies. And with this bill we are discussing today, the new Minister for Gender Equality is sneaking quotas through the back door. State institutions and enterprises covered by the Equal Opportunities Act will in future aim at a gender distribution of at least 40/60 per cent. And then the draft law must strengthen existing legislation so that it supports a more equal gender composition in the management and management of public institutions and companies. I do not believe that neither the European Union nor we politicians at Christiansborg should run Danish companies in detail, whether public or private. In the Conservative People's Party, we want to see more ambitious targeted career women in top management, but this should not be done through quotas, because quotas are for fish and not for women. We Conservatives want a labour market where women are elected because they have the right skills and qualifications for the position they are looking for, and not because organisations are subject to quotas. We women must not be carried forward by society, we can fight our own way to the top, but it also requires us to choose the career woman if we want to be in top positions. It would be too great a failure for us if we were to have a director or leadership only in future, because there is a legal requirement for organisations. And who will basically be recruited on the basis of their sex? I would certainly not be satisfied to know that I had only got a job because of my sex. We women can do it ourselves. It is quite an under-enhancement of women when it is proposed that companies should be forced to hire them for special positions. Equality does not mean that there must be equal numbers of men and women on a given board of directors or on the management board. Equality means that men and women must be judged on the basis of the same criteria. The complete opposite is created by the introduction of state compulsory quotas. We simply believe that this is a very dangerous way to go when we measure equal opportunities with equal results. The last thing can only happen through coercion, and then I just ask, where is the limit? We in the Conservative People's Party want a labour market that will always weigh gender qualifications. Otherwise, I must honestly acknowledge that we are ending up with a paradoxical, reverse equality, signaling that women need special help or need help to get up the career ladder through quotas. We must never go there in Denmark. The Conservative People's Party cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222140250	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222140254	Thank you. I had actually thought that I would ask the rapporteur how the rapporteur would feel again and again about being elected to Deadline because you are a woman. Because that's what we can see Deadline has done until you actually started looking at these numbers. But joke aside, let's really talk about this. The rapporteur says that you want to see more women in the management boards, that you want to see more women on the boards, but you do not want to help women up there. When gender researchers now say that it is because they are women that it is because there is a bias that chooses them from along the way, the rapporteur does not think that that is what is at issue, that is, that it is because they are women. What is the reason for this? Why is it then that, although women now receive long higher education and 75%. Of young women who want to be on boards and boards, they still don't get in there? What, then, is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222140349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222140350	I think the figures are starting to look quite positive. It may not go as fast as the rapporteur wishes, but I think the figures are going in the right direction. After all, it is not a goal for us to have exactly 50 per cent. women and 50%. men. This is also about the women themselves; not all women want to be in top management positions or to sit on boards. And frankly, I do not think that what is in this debate with a compulsory quota system is the way to go. So, I think we are simply doing women a disservice by imposing compulsory quotas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222140433	Mrs. Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222140435	Okay, it's true that there are women who don't want to on boards and boards, and there are also lots of men who don't want to and don't come to it and never ever come near a post. That is not what we are saying either, that is, that all women should sit on boards and boards, but 75%. I'd like to. Well, that's a lot, so it's a myth that women don't want to; that's not right. When you ask the women, they want management responsibility. So that is certainly not the explanation, and I do not think that the rapporteur will give an explanation or an indication of what we can do. We have brought women into long-term higher education, and women want to, so what can we do? What makes women not there today?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222140515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222140516	Well, at least I think there are things that could be better done. I think that in the headhunting process more attention could be paid to the different profiles, to the different genders, no doubt about it. I also believe that in networks out there they could look beyond their own network, i.e. those you would normally approach, but that also requires you to see each other. And there I think both men and women have a task in drawing attention to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222140547	Thank you. There are no more short comments on the list, so thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mrs Hjermind Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222140604	Thank you. I was on Læsø here during the winter holidays, and there I talked to some fishermen. They had quotas as to how many Norway lobsters they had to catch... they had to catch 50 per cent. When you make quotas for women, it is clear that it is at the expense of someone; someone else will have to resign instead. It's too bad for me because I'm a woman. I don't have the same options as others because I'm a woman. No, no, no, no. Raise your back and fight! Well, this is the part where women are actually the worst in terms of making themselves victims. Women are the worst of alleralds when it comes to thinking that it is a sin for themselves and a sin for each other instead of fighting. Instead of fighting, they say: I don't have the same terms, because I'm a woman, honestly, if you think so, then it's your attitude that's wrong with; it's not your gender. Why should companies not be able to choose for themselves what is best? In the Danish People's Party we have great confidence that every company knows what is best for that company. Every company knows what is best for its management, who is the most competent to sit in management. Women who are competent, capable and passionate do not need women's quotas at all. They'll find their way to the boards anyway. We in the Danish People's Party also find it difficult to understand the government's sudden turnaround in this matter, so why the government has not just proposed it itself, but must have big brother EU to do it for them. And then it is that I am wondering about something that has been said several times here. It's about a list where Denmark is number 101. Is it a quality mark that there are countries that have more women on the boards? Is it a quality stamp in itself? What is that parameter to measure? Imagine if instead we measured which companies are doing the best, which companies are doing the best on the stock market, which companies are growing fastest. Who are the best? Who are the ones who make the most money on the stock exchange? There I would really like to study who it is that sits on the board, not what gender they have, but what people it is. What are some people who sit on the boards of the companies that grow fastest? I'd like to learn something from that. I would like to know something about this, because we need to see each other as human beings, and not according to what gender we have, but on the basis of what people we are and what we can do. I find this much more interesting than making such primitive measurements on gender, parameters based on gender, where you say it is a success if you have more women. No, it is not; surely not, if that company has no growth. When I look out in the Assembly Hall, I see a lot of beautiful women who are here and who have been elected to the Folketing, not because they are women, but because they are really talented and because they are good at selling their messages. It is talented and passionate women who sit here, not because of quotas, but because they are talented, and I am one of them myself, and I am very proud of that, but I would not be so proud if I sat here because there was a quota. I wouldn't be proud if I sat in a board post because there was a quota. And I'd feel so bad about myself if there was a man who was much better than me who was supposed to give way to me because there were women's quotas. I'd think that was really, really bad. So in the Danish People's Party we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222141018	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222141033	Actually, I thought we'd moved on. Those words are not actually mine, but come from a young self-employed woman whom I spoke to the other day. Because she simply needed to say no to what is happening. She felt that she was receiving an agenda that was incredibly derogatory and devaluating to her sex, and that there were organisations and also political parties that now thought that she should suddenly belong to the weak sex. She thought, "Honestly, what do they think?" Because she in no way regards herself as part of the weak sex, and she will not put up with it. I have to say, I can't do anything but agree with her. For where I go and that is both in politics and in the public and also in the private sector, I therefore do not meet any norm, either among men or women, who see women as the weak sex, and certainly not as a sex who needs legislation, which means that they do not have to perform as well as the other sex. Try to think: you want to make legislation that means that one particular sex does not have to perform as well as the other sex. I guess that's the definition of discrimination. But what really is the agenda? Why is it that political parties are now willing to make legislation that directly discriminates in my optics? This is because an agenda has been drawn up, mainly by a group of neo-feminists who have got political parties on the road, where it is not now about working for anything; no, it is about the fact that as long as you have the right sex, you must be able to get it without you actually working for it. This has nothing to do with equality. What kind of signal is it sent to young women and girls that they are first and foremost defined by their gender and not by what qualities they have, what skills they have, what human qualities they have, and whether they have a profile that suits that company or something else? So I very much agree with the young professional woman I met, who asked: have we not gone further than where we see each other first as gender, but where we could see each other as competent colleagues? That is why, of course, we in New Citizens cannot support a bill at all, which in this way moves us back to a past where we look first and foremost at each other based on gender and forget competences, abilities and industriousness. That is why we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222141414	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222141424	There are posts and duties in this society where gender matters. We feel that, for example. in the Liberal Alliance. We have a very strong wish that we should have more prominent women in our parliamentary group. We only picked four last time, and one left us, and we're three men left. Frankly, we think this is a little off, so for us it is a quality if our candidates have some female, because we have too little of it. We would like to represent the population widely. We would also like to talk to women voters who can identify more with women politicians, and for us and in politics it is therefore a quality that you are of a different sex than what is most. But then there are other areas where it does not matter whether the person is a man or a woman. Who's in charge of kindergarten? Is it a man or a woman? If I were to hire that leader, I'd say it doesn't matter, we just need the best. And if the best is a woman, I wouldn't care about 90 percent. of my institution leaders in the municipality are also women or perhaps even 95 per cent. or maybe 98 per cent. I just wanted to take the woman because she was the best, completely despite the fact that she would join a group of already many, many women. That is also true in those leadership positions where there are many men. I also completely do not care if the next person who comes is also a man, or whether it is a woman, because I just think you should hire the best, and it is in executive positions in the public sector not any quality • opposite in politics that you are of a particular sex. That is why we cannot support this idea of setting targets for having so many women or so many men, because there are too few women or too few men. We think that all public institutions and all public companies should have the goal of hiring the best candidates and candidates and trying to close their eyes to whether they are men or women, whether they are from Aabenraa or from Aalborg. It doesn't matter. It shouldn't matter. Whether they were born in Denmark, or whether they were born abroad, doesn't matter. What qualifications are is crucial. That is why we do not support the fact that there are targets today, and we do not support this bill that we want to tighten up the target figures and make them even more governing how to employ public and public companies. We shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222141713	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Free Greens, Mrs Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222141726	We in the Free Greens very much appreciate the fact that, as agreed, the government has gone ahead with this proposal to promote gender equality and gender equality in boards, companies and in senior management battles in the state and municipalities. In March, we in the Greens voted in favour of a text for adoption on which this proposal should have been based. The text of the adoption states: "The Parliament notes that the current rules on targets and policies for the under-represented sex of senior management bodies have not had the desired effect. Parliament notes that the government wants to launch new initiatives to support a better representation. This proposal does not entirely live up to it, and it makes no sense for more target figures to be proposed precisely when we agreed in March that targets do not work as intended. That is exactly the opposite of what we have promised. We had hoped that the government had come up with a proposal that could make a difference, rather than using a method that we have already seen does not produce results. Let us learn from the experience of our neighbouring countries. In both Norway and Iceland, it can be seen that the introduction of gender quotas has had a real effect. Both countries are in the top three on the list in the Global Gender Gap Report, unlike Denmark, which is in a 29th place. That is how far we are behind in Denmark and it is simply not good enough. The concern for taking effective action often lies in the fear of pushing the business sector further, especially here after the closure of the corona, where the business community has already had a lot of pressure. But let us look again at a country like Norway. There is no evidence to suggest that the introduction of gender quotas has been a burden on businesses on the contrary. A study by the International Monetary Fund has shown that companies with women on the board of directors and boards have significantly higher profitability. If one man in top management is replaced by a woman, the company's profitability increases by 8%. So let us now get a start on drawing up a number of right measures that will eliminate the inequality we have in the labour market. In the Free Greens, we have a vision of a society in which everyone is equal. We will take the lead in the fight for all citizens to enjoy the same rights and have equal access to society regardless of gender, colour, religion or sexuality. And if we are to achieve that, we have to challenge the status quo. That is why we believe that we must do more. Equality between men and women is a good start, but we want more. We believe that it is equally important to involve our society's minorities, including among others. people with other gender identities and ethnic minorities. Although this proposal is far from being what we wanted, we still support it. We are hoping that we can use it as a starting point for creating a more ambitious plan for equality between women and men, a draft law that commits and actually acts on promoting equality in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142031	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we will be through the rapporteur's line and then we will give the floor to the Minister for Gender Equality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142044	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their excellent contributions and I look forward to good cooperation. We do not have equality in Denmark, and we need to do something about that. When it comes to equality in boards and management, we are far behind, and we need to change that. It is thought-provoking that we are no more. 101 out of 156 countries compared to the proportion of women in management according to the World Economic Forum's annual Global Gender Gap Report from 2020, while the other Nordic countries are significantly better than Denmark. It is also thought-provoking that there are more top managers named Lars or Peter in Denmark's 1,000 largest companies than there are female top managers. It's not just thought-provoking, it's actually also worrying. It looks better in the public sector, but it is still not good enough, especially when women account for almost 70%. of the employees, but only about a third of the top managers. The current rules on gender composition in boards have not had enough effect, developments are simply moving too slowly. Danish women are among the best educated in the world, and we must exploit that. The opponents of the legislation in 2012 had hoped that good intentions and the way of volunteering were the solution, but I see that there is now a broad consensus, not least in the business world and among business organisations, that something needs to be done and there is a recognition that development is not coming on its own. The Minister for Industry and I have therefore tabled the two legislative proposals that we are dealing with firsthand today. They must promote a more equal gender composition in management and boards, both in private companies and in the public sector. That step is taking the government because we believe that we risk missing out on qualified labour and competences if we do not use the whole talent of both men and women, because both men and women must have the opportunity to gain influence and sit on the table when important decisions are taken and because role models are needed. And this is not about the individual woman, it is about all people's lives and everyday life, and because there is a positive effect of having greater diversity in leadership. For the public sector, which is what the legislative proposal we are discussing here is about, the government proposes, firstly, that targets for senior management levels should also be set for the future, in addition to the board of directors. Secondly, we propose to extend the target group to include the largest municipal communities as well. In addition, municipal and regional government, regional hospitals and ministries, state institutions and companies are included without a board of directors. In other words, we are now bringing in the whole public sector. Thirdly, we propose that there should be more visibility and transparency in the development of gender composition with regard to the targets set and reported by businesses and institutions. With a public website, everyone gets the opportunity to form a comprehensive overview of developments across the public sector. In those words, I look forward to the committee reading, that we can discuss this constructively on the basis of what we consider to be a challenge, namely that we do not make full use of the talents and that we do not really offer equal opportunities for men and women. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142443	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142447	After all, the Danish Business Administration makes an inventory of the number of women on boards, etc. There we can see that in the last 4 years from 2017 to 2021 there has been an increase of 6%. If that development continues, and there is no indication that it should not, we will have reached 40% within 10 years. Apparently, that's not fast enough for the government, but how soon is that gonna happen? The linear projection tells us that in 10 years we're gonna meet the 40 per cent that you say is what's supposed to be the target number. But what's so fast enough if 10 years isn't fast enough? Then you have to have another condition, because it is the government's own figures that say that it will actually have been achieved in ten years' time. That is not said to be fast enough, and that is why we need to do more, but how quickly will it happen? In what year is it to be reached?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142540	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142540-2	Now I also heard the rapporteur's speech and I believe that the rapporteur is mixing two different proposals together. What we are discussing here and now is a legislative proposal dealing with public institutions. In a few moments, the Minister for Industry will come up with the proposal on which I think the rapporteur is asking questions, namely the private boards. I would also like to say that we are not discussing quotas here either. A number of people have said so. These are not quotas we are discussing, but targets. It is about setting targets and methods for how to select both men and women for their management and board of directors. What we can see is that women's education and the increase in their talents are not reflected in managements and boards. The two pillars will have to go together.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142635	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142636	I am well aware that the figures are about listed companies and other companies, but if the Minister has some figures that developments are different in public institutions, I would like to see them. I haven't seen them, but I actually think they're following the same course up. I have another question: in some of these boards there is, if it is a board of seven people, an employee representative, one who is chosen by the consumers • if there are consumers to sit on the board and then there is a politically appointed member. This means that three out of a board of seven people can be democratically elected. If it is now men who have been democratically elected, then, in order to build up the other, we have to choose women for the last four posts, although perhaps they are not the most competent to sit there. Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142725	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142727	The point of this debate and this proposal is to ensure that every board and every management looks at itself and looks at: Do we have a composition that reflects the population? Are we looking in the right places when we appoint new members to the board? There we just have to say that today, unfortunately, things are really bad. It looks really bad when we look across it. Then you can always find examples of how you can say: right here we think it makes sense that there is one more man than there are women. But that is not what we are discussing here. It is to ensure that we have some methods and become aware of it. We need to look around the boardrooms to see if both sexes are sitting there, whether they reflect the competences that are generally in the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142815	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142817	Thank you. Now we are not talking quotas here, but I would like to ask the Minister: what is the Minister's ambition about the distribution between men and women, in broad terms?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142831	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142832	In any case, we can see that when we look widely at boardrooms and management, yes, there is an under-representation of women, and that is what we want to get up. Then you can also point out a few examples where it is the other way round; where men are therefore in a strong minority. I think that is very few examples. But the aim of this is to ensure that the boards and the managements put on some other glasses and see that there are some other competences than those that you might normally see, some other than those that you would normally attribute as board members or management representatives. And I think that's a good and healthy exercise for everyone, because otherwise you're going to reproduce the way you've been used to being a board of directors or management, and look for what you've had in the past, instead of actually choosing someone who might end up having a really big impact on the progress of this public institution or company.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142932	Mrs. Susanne Zimmer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142932-2	Thank you for your answer. Now it's gotta be evaluated on this as I remember it, it's after three years. If developments are not going in the right direction, would the Minister think that there should be consequences if these objectives are not met and a figure that is quite OK?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142954	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222142954-2	So, for the moment we do not have any plans for quotas, and that is not what lies in either this legislative proposal or what comes after it or what lies in the EU directive. These are not quotas we are discussing; they are targets. And I think that is the right tools to use, but I also always believe that we should be open and honest with each other when it comes to discussing it if we have imbalances, unexplained imbalances, in our society. Then we must dare to take that debate, not on the basis of sights or emotions, but on the basis of sober facts. And I will also be happy to discuss that in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222143037	The next brief remark is to Mrs Birgitte Bergman, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222143040	Thank you for that and I forgot to welcome the new minister. I look forward to your cooperation. I think it is really, really a pity that, with the new minister in the lead, the government is turning 180 degrees and now backing a directive, no, it is not yet, but supports the fact that the European Union must be able to shape and produce a directive which will make it possible for quotas to be set at 40%. for women on boards of major companies. After all, I believe that neither the European Union nor we politicians in Christiansborg should interfere with the way in which public or private companies operate. And, as the rapporteur for the new citizens said before, it is actually the case that within ten years we will reach 40%. My comment is a bit that the bill on public enterprises itself says that it has actually now increased, so that by 2020 women are 34 per cent. by top executives in the state and 32%. in the municipalities. I think that is a very nice figure and that it is going the right way. So my question is this: does the Minister really believe that there is a need to introduce quotas in that area too, because that is what the draft law says when it says that there is commitment?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222143208	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222143209	No, I do not know where the questioner gets the floor for quotas, because that is not in the legislative proposal, it is not in the proposal, and it is not in the EU directive that is on the way either. So I don't understand where quotas come from. This isn't part of what we're discussing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222143226	Mrs. Birgitte Bergman.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222143227	If you now impose targets on companies and you have not explained what sanctions you want to impose on those companies if they do not set those targets, then you do not think that these are indirect quotas. The Minister does not think so. Could the Minister then give a little thought to the sanctions that companies will face if they fail to meet the targets that the Minister would like to see?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222143256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222143258	But excuse me, it does not actually sound as if the author has read the bill, because there is nothing about sanctions either. It is about publishing it on a website, which means publishing what methods you use to select from; what management perspective you have when you look around for new members of your board of directors, for example, and then you publish how things are going. There is the question of whether it is good enough to have 34 per cent. female top executives. Well, women make up almost 70%. of all public employees, but it's only about this third that's top executives. It's strange if you ask me.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222143345	Thank you to the Minister for Gender Equality. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. I propose that this bill be referred to the Committee on Gender Equality. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222143415	The debate is open and the first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome to sir. Orla Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222143422	Thank you for that, President. Then we move to the private sector and take it one more time for Prince Knud. I think that is the way it can be expressed. The aim of the legislation is, of course, quite similar, namely to promote a more balanced gender balance in the top management bodies of companies and at the other levels of management, including strengthening the recruitment base for companies. It is no secret that the desire to promote the diversity of managements and boards in Danish companies has been a strong concern of several parties, including the Social Democratic Party. The desire can be seen only as a fulfilment of gender policy objectives, which well matches the objectives of social development in general. It is both fair and reasonable that companies should take care to raise the bar for both women and men to be present on management and board. It is also reasonable to argue that greater diversity benefits companies' opportunities to promote business. In practice, there are differences in the areas in which women and men focus in their education and vocational choices. We need innovation from many professionals from knowledge about the market, knowledge about design and user approach, knowledge about circular economy and, of course, knowledge about technology and profitability combined with legal issues. With solid representation of both sexes, the opportunities for enterprises to take account of all elements of enterprise activity are increased. The Social Democratic Party welcomes both concerns with L 117. And we are not talking about quotas in this context; we are talking about the fact that it is a requirement that companies themselves should plan how they live up to a more equal representation in their management battles. Is the proposal sufficiently far-reaching? There are certainly different views here, and there are also in the consultation answers, and I am sure that the citizen will be aware that a reasonable cut has been found at this stage. What is crucial is that companies embrace the policy area and actively use it for the benefit of both gender equality and business development. Then it would look bad to the Minister for Industry if a legislative proposal that is being put forward were not to become such a conglomerate, and that is what it is here too. The aim of the next part of the bill is to promote the ability of foreign shareholders to vote at general meetings of the Danish listed companies and thus to promote active ownership. In Denmark we have high confidence in the need for debate and dialogue and communication as a basis for the development of both industry and society, and therefore it is quite natural that all owners are given the opportunity to participate in corporate general meetings and thus influence the direction and development of companies. Then there is an additional element in the draft law, namely to abolish the submission of a declaration of reciprocity when establishing branches of capital companies resident outside an EU or EEA country and wishing to operate through a branch in Denmark. It is, of course, an expression of the fact that business is becoming more and more global and more international, and it is appropriate that we make it more flexible. Then the Minister has a package that states that we must also ensure a change in the CVR legislation, which means that among other things. Congregation Councils no longer have to report several times that they are the real owners of the Danish National Church. I now hope that there are more people who feel like owners of it, but that is another discussion. This shows that the information provided by the public sector can be shared by the public sector with other sectors of the public sector, which is both appropriate and conducive to development. Then there is a change in the rules of the Law of the Sea, where you work to equate paper walks with digital walkways, and that is also sensible. The latter is something about giving the consumer ombudsman better enforcement powers when it comes to Article 4 of the e-commerce law. Social democracy supports the whole package, the whole conglomerate of proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222143928	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222143932	Now that the Social Democratic Party believes that it is not going fast enough to get women on board, and when the Danish Business Authority's figures show that there has been a sharp increase of 6% over the past four years, and that with a continuation of this development within 10 years we will hit these 40%, what is so fast enough? When 10 years is not fast enough, what is the Social Democratic response to how fast it should go? I would like a concrete answer, because it is not enough to say that things just have to go faster. What are the targets you want to achieve if it is to go faster than 10 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144012	I do not think I have said anything about speed, because it is not, in fact, a target. The aim is to get companies actively to deal with how best to place a team in order to maximise the diversity of the management of the company for the benefit of the development of the company and in order to use all competences across the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144036	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144036-2	Now we have just heard representatives of the government say that it is not going fast enough to get women on board, but I understand that is not the view of the Social Democrat Party. It's just government. But the view of the Social Democratic Party is that it is fast enough to get women on board. Why, then, do we need further legislation such as this? a directive from the European Union which contains something with targets and which could involve sanctions? Why create increased pressure if you think that things are going fast enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144105	I'll have to repeat for Mr. Simpson. Lars Boje Mathisen, that I haven't said anything about speed in this. It is important to get it on the agenda, it is important to get companies to work with this themselves as a parameter that helps to create development and momentum and innovation in Danish industry. That is what is meant by it. What others have said, they must be on target for.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144130	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are only two comments to each questioner; the questioner seemed to want to ask more. I can give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Maja Torp. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144154	Thank you. After all, this bill goes a long way beyond what we have just discussed, namely L 124, so I will be relatively brief. As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech on L 124, we in the Left want greater equality and there is still some way to achieve equality in top management, boards and the like. And we need more equality and more diversity, because diversity qualifies decisions and diversity gives more value. But again here, as was the case with L 124, we in the Left believe that there is too much interference and regulation in the detail of the state. In this case, the position of the Left differs from that of the government when it comes to precisely what tools create a framework for diverse management. So we do not think that legislation is the right way forward. We believe that there should be limits to how much politicians should interfere in the operation of private companies. And companies themselves can work with it today, i.e. design policies and set targets and make efforts on a completely voluntary basis. For the Left, it is crucial that qualifications and competences are taken into account first and foremost when hiring managers and board members, both in state companies, municipal companies, private companies and generally quite broadly, because it is also important to respect the management rights of companies and the special conditions that apply in individual industries. We cannot ignore the fact that in some industries it will simply be impossible to live up to 40 per cent. must be women and that 60%. I want to be men. And it can be a problem both ways • both to find 40%. women, but also in some industries to actually find 60%. men. At the same time, we find it problematic that the industries involved in this proposal should be standardized, because it is simply not realistic. We are at a time of shortage of labour, and if we then at the same time take away the flexibility of companies from them in terms of being able to recruit the skilled labour that is available, because gender needs to be taken into account, then we will give companies further problems with recruitment. So for that part of the legislative proposal, we stand in the left that we cannot support it. Then there are some other elements in the bill that are, like, piled up. There's, uh... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... there's... an amendment to the Maritime Code rules on ship registration and some changes to the e-commerce law. Several of these elements make sense, but since they are put together in a legislative proposal, we are forced to vote against the overall proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144509	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment on the rapporteur, and that is from Mrs Samira Nawa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144513	Thank you very much, and thank you very much for your speech. I am taking the floor here because I do not think the rapporteur answered my question about this future EU directive when we dealt with the second legislative proposal. As the President has just said, only the two comments have been made, so I am trying to ask again: there is, after all, an EU directive in the process and we see that the government has changed its mind about this. And as I mentioned before, I know the Left as an EU-enthusiastic party, so what is one's position in relation to what is also dealing with target figures?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144549-2	As I also tried to answer earlier, we see the EU directive that has been put forward as having real quotas. We do this because these targets mean that if you do not comply with them, you will be faced with some sanctions. We really see it as a quota because there are these sanctions.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144614	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144614-2	So little on another ball street, because I also hear the rapporteur say that the business community, the companies, really want diversity and diversity, and then you just have to let it happen and wait for it. But the business community would also like to see the green transition, and I do not think that should prevent the Folketing from also making active legislation on climate and environmental issues. What does the rapporteur think about this? Should we give up because business is interested in something? Should we then give up legislation from in here from Christiansborg?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144648	Well, I find it hard to see that we're giving up on something here. We just don't believe that it's legislation that needs to be done. Companies are also seeing in many places what it really is that it can bring, for example on a board, that there is an increased diversity. Research has also been done that shows that if you have diversity on a board, you can see a pattern in that some of the companies are actually doing better. So there is much to show that companies are beginning to realise that they are making increased efforts on their own initiative and actually yelling at women who want to make themselves available. So we also see positive developments, and we hear companies talk about the fact that they want women. But we also need to get this food chain going, so that we make sure that women get into management and thus also into top management and boards.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144747	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Astrid Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144757	Thank you. As Mr. Orla Hav said, we'll take it one more time. I could almost make the same speech as I did just now, but you heard the figures there, and you heard my arguments about why SF is for us to improve the rules on target numbers. I would like to reflect a little over the current rules on target numbers, because we can see that we have the rules we have had them for many years, but that companies fail to set the target figures and fail to set out the targets they have set. Therefore, it is very good that we are now tightening up the requirements and ensuring more publicity about the targets that companies must set. We're happy about that in the SF. But here too it is a small step, which is why it is important for us to continue to keep an eye on developments so that we know whether this has the effect we want. The rest of the package also supports SF. So, although I am not very familiar with it as rapporteur for equality, I can say that I have been told that we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144901	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment to be made to the rapporteur, and that is from Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144905	I'm a little curious about how many pretty SFs there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144916	I do not understand why we should discuss this in this debate. I remember that the last time we discussed the target figures, when the Radical Left made a proposal, Lars Boje Mathiesen asked my colleague Victoria Velasquez and put it on Facebook afterwards. It is irrelevant how many genders there are in a debate on target numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144935	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222144937	It is by no means irrelevant; it is absolutely central. Because here you want to set targets for two genders, for men and for women. And then I just ask whether it is not terribly discriminatory, if you think that there are many other genders, that there are no targets for them as well. What is the reason why they should be passed over in relation to targets, that is, if they are to be targets only for men and women? So it is then mega relevant to a question about target numbers whether it should only be for two categories.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145012	It is exciting if New Citizens have suddenly become front fighters for lggbt rights and non-binary people. It was supposed to be the first time. It is extremely important that we should still be able to talk about equality between men and women while at the same time talking about the rights of people with disabilities. The fact that there may be non-binaries in companies is important. I think it is insanely important that there is diversity in companies and that there may also be people who do not define themselves within the binary gender system. But this is about equality between men and women, and we should also very much like to have more rights to non-binarians.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145043	The next brief remark is to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145047	I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that women are not a minority.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145055	Absolutely not, no, but unfortunately in many of the large companies in the country. But no, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145103	The next brief remark is to Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145106	I still find this a little interesting. Well, I guess there's only two genders, then, since there's only two gender targets. Is it SF's view, just as I believe that there are only two genders?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145120	No, not biologically or culturally there are two genders. There is also something called intersex, which is, moreover, something that has been born biologically. So no, there are not only two genders, but there are two dominant genders, primary genders, and these are the ones we are making legislation about today. For the SF, it is also extremely important that you can go to work and be who you are, and fortunately we have also changed legislation in this collection, which unfortunately I believe neither the Liberal Alliance nor the New Civil Service supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145146	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145147	Okay, but those who do not regard themselves as male or female do not have the same rights in the labour market that the SF will give to those who regard themselves as male or female?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145201-2	They're not part of these target numbers, that's true. Sometimes you talk about men and non-men, and then you come with non-binaries. You could do that, too. But the important thing here is the target numbers around men and women. And then I think it is extremely important that you can be who you are at your workplace and that there is diversity. Just as diversity is not only about gender, diversity is also about ethnicity, age and all sorts of other things that I also think are extremely important, but that we do not measure here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145229	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. I can give the floor to the Radical Left rapporteur. In this case, it is Mrs Samira Nawa. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145244	Thank you very much for the floor. A large part of this debate has been taken in connection with the discussion of L 124 a moment ago. Nevertheless, there are many points that still need to be made. For example: As other rapporteurs have also pointed out, companies are actually quite interested in the transparency of equal opportunities. So, we see a business community that sees it here with equality, diversity and diversity both in employee composition, but also further up in the management boards, as a real competitive parameter. That is why I also believe that Parliament can help to ensure better equality. Then this is about private companies. Several studies have pointed out that the further up the management boards you come, the more women are thinned out. In other words, you can see sectors where there is a fifty-fifty distribution of men and women at employee level, but the more you move up in management layers, the fewer women there are. If you compare it with the qualifications of women and the ambitions of women to contest management positions and sit on the table where decisions are made, then there is a mismatch. In addition, the argument I made in dealing with L 124, namely that men and women are assessed differently, and that is why this is about giving targets for women, of course not about sorting out men, but about giving women and men the same opportunities. And that is what equality is about for the Radical Left, in other words, that everyone has equal opportunities. So we're backing this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145457	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145501	Thank you. About a month ago, the leader of the Radical Left, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, wrote on Twitter in connection with another debate these words: "Employers choose who is the best. Not Christiansborg. Is it to be understood that it is not a general principle of the Radical Left that companies should choose for themselves who are the most capable? Because when it comes to gender and whether the most talented is a man or a woman, the Radical Left not only believes, as this bill suggests, that companies should set targets that Christiansborg tells companies to set, but the Radical Left actually wants to go even further and say that there must be quotas for how many of a particular sex they employ. So, the companies don't decide and aren't the best at deciding who to hire here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145600-2	As Mr. Ole Birk Olesen probably remembers, the comment related to the question of foreign labour, and that some parties want to shut down foreign labour from certain countries, and there was the answer from the Radical Left: No thanks to that kind of discrimination. One thing we say 'yes' to is equal opportunities when you have the qualifications and competences that apply to men and women, and that applies to Muslims and non-Muslims. There must be equal opportunities, and this is true in both cases, so there is no controversy between one opinion and the other, even if one is about something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145642	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145643	That is now there, because the Radical Left's view is formulated as a general principle that companies are best at choosing the best employees themselves. It is so directed at a debate about whether people from one country or another should be allowed to come to Denmark and work. But when it comes to employing women or men in positions of leadership, the Radical Left says that it does not know the best of the companies themselves; there is the desire of the Radical Left that companies should ultimately employ at least 40%. of the underrepresented sex. How can one be in itself with the view that when it comes to foreigners or not foreigners, companies know best themselves, but when it comes to men or women, the Folketing knows best?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145731	We do not want to keep people from certain countries from being able to come to Denmark and work and contribute to the growth and prosperity that among other things. help finance the well-being of all of us. Of course, we do not want to cut companies off from recruiting in certain countries. This bill is about ensuring equal opportunities for men and women, who have the same qualifications and competences, who are looking towards the same thing and who, incidentally, have the same ambitions, but where it is just the case that women are sorted out because they are women, and we had that discussion just now in the second debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145813	The next brief remark is to Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145816	There are two candidates seeking a position or a board position. A man and a woman. They have the same skills, the same education. They're rated to be equally qualified for this position. But because of the quota system, to live up to this, the company has to hire the woman instead of the man. In other words, the man is not elected to the position because of his gender. How can this not be discrimination?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145859	I don't think that's exactly what this bill is about. However, since the rapporteur then brings up what is, after all, part of this EU directive, which, among other things, is an important one. I also mentioned a moment ago that men and women are assessed differently. Although they have the same skills, you can see that the man is dynamic and strong as a leader, while the woman is annoying and dominant. So, of course, if men are elected on an invisible quota as it is today, what would have happened to the damage done to women in the future if they are the under-represented sex? They're not always, but most of the time they are on these boards we're talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145949	Sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222145949-2	It is the Radical Left that is talking about quotas. And then I'm just asking, if you have a man and a woman who has the same skills and abilities, but the man doesn't get the job alone because of his gender, not other things, how can it not be discrimination against the individual, that is, that he is rejected because he is a man?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222150017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222150018	Well, there's one of those two in Mr. Knox's office. Lars Boje Mathiesen's hypothetical case, where both are completely equally qualified, must have the position. And if one is a man and the other is a woman, then it is either a man or a woman who comes to. If it is under-represented sex women, then I cannot see the unfairness of women being elected if she is completely as qualified as the gentleman who is then elected. Because that is what is happening today, with the opposite sign.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222150053	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no further brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next party on the platform is the Enhedslisten, and the rapporteur is Mr. Rune Lund. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222150114	Thank you. After all, this bill gives tradition faith in a number of different directions. The overall objective of correcting the gender balance in business naturally supports the Enhedslisten also following the debate that has been under L 124. Perhaps one should just note that the problem of our gender-separated labour market is deeper and broader than the draft law suggests. If we want a less gender-separated labour market, much earlier in the process and more wide-ranging than the narrow focus of the draft law on management bodies must be addressed. It is not an easy task, and certainly not just a parliamentary task, to put an end to fixed cultural standards. But one thing we can and should look at is for example. The role of training choices in the composition of the labour market. If you simply focus on recruitment in the management battles by means of targeting rules and the like, you are somehow out in some kind of symptom treatment when the damage has, so to speak, already occurred. I would also like to call for the regulation to be evaluated after a number of years, of course, so that we can look at how things develop. Compared with many of the other things that are included in the draft law, we are in fact positive about what is there. We think it is a good thing that Article 4 of the e-commerce law is being amended so that in future the consumer ombudsman can strengthen the possibilities of enforcing the Danish consumer law vis-à-vis European based companies. Then we have one thing in which we can see some problems in which we are sceptical. This is the proposal to improve the framework for the active ownership of foreign shareholders in listed Danish companies. This sounds very positive at first hand, but such institutional shareholders typically hand over their voting power to large financial consulting houses or so-called consultative substitutes. In other words, the bill can mean a greater influence for consulting houses such as ISS or others. There are some large consulting houses which are currently in a very, very large part of the market and which are increasingly making use of, among other things. algorithms as a control tool. The question therefore arises whether we in Denmark have the necessary regulation in place to keep track of the management of shareholders' votes by these financial houses. It would certainly be good to learn a little more about the consequences of inviting such forces more into Danish companies. So this is something that the Enhedslisten will be asking about in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222150401	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222150420	Thank you for the floor. There is nothing to say about the Minister bringing together a lot of different things in one bill, so that we do not deal with everything separately. However, this is a lot of very different elements messed up in one bill from a little relevant digitisation of information about church councils to allow foreign shareholders to vote at general meetings in Danish listed companies, just to name a few. It's all fine. Conservatives can probably back that up. However, I need some clarification and answers to a number of questions that I think we can take in committee work, where I also need to ask for a new consultation note. Because I am listening to the hearing note being unusually inadequate. There has simply been no mention of relevant constructive and critical remarks, and that is obviously not acceptable. Nor is it right for this draft law to promote a more equal gender balance in the top management of companies. This is, of course, a fine intention, and most people are certainly not opposed and blah blah blah, but we do not avoid the fact that it is an extra burden for companies, even though the proposal has considered them to be extremely limited. I'd like to challenge that. In concrete terms, it is proposed that a requirement be introduced to set targets for the proportion of the under-represented sex at the company's other management level. As you know, there is already a high level of management and this should apply to all companies with up to 50 employees. The company must therefore consider how the under-represented sex is promoted at other levels of management. Only when there is a gender balance, which is thus defined as 40-60, does the obligation to set targets and to draw up a policy fall. These things take time. And how do you define that with other levels of management, and how many levels of management do you really have if you are a company of 52 people? What if you're a big company with subsidiaries, do they have to? I do not think that is very clear. And does it give anything at all? Do we get more women in management by making statements? Well, maybe it puts extra emphasis on the individual companies, but if there is no one to recruit, it doesn't really help anything. Because there can be differences between industries, differences in where the sexes are best represented. I think this part of the bill is something and nothing. Personally, I think that this thing about women in management is more complicated than that. As an everyday activist, such as the one who might sell my shares in a company that couldn't figure out how to hire some women or have women on the board, I also know that there are problems in spotting women. There is rarely a week in which I am not asked by various companies and recruitment agencies for suitable women, for example. Boards. Many men simply don't have the network with them, and it doesn't seem to come all by itself. But perhaps that is where we should start instead of burdening companies again, exposing companies and using state funds to do so. Either way, we should take into account the context of the future CSRD directive, i.e. corporate sustainability reporting directive. This applies both to the content of the information requirements, the requirements for the location of the information, the possibilities for derogation, the possibility to report according to international standards and the timing of entry into force. I fully agree, as has also been said, that L 117 is not about quotas. But there is hardly any doubt either that the government in another turn now believes that targets should be followed by quotas. Frankly, we do not think that the government knows best here either and will therefore propose that the bill be split up, because we will not vote for the part relating to target figures for what we see as a forerunner of quotas. Let me conclude by saying that more women in the managements of the financial sector are calling for a change in the fit and proper rules, and that is precisely what we are discussing here in parallel. If the rules are maintained as they are now, there will hardly be women in top positions in the Danish banks, but it is also doubtful whether there will be a Dane at all on the top positions in the banks. The field is gradually becoming extremely narrow and, in my opinion, there must be, for example. to be able to recruit from several industries. And look, all of a sudden we're trying to find a simple way to create better opportunities for women without coercion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222150841	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a request for a brief comment, and it is for Mr. Ole Birk Olesen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222150846	It is to the end that Mrs Mona Juul spoke about, namely the fit and property rules with a view to being appointed to the board and management of the financial sector. There Mrs Mona Juul said that if we are to find enough suitable women there, we need to relax the demands that exist today. And we can, of course, discuss whether these demands are too tight. It is an ongoing debate in Danish society. But the very fact that we want to relax our demands for more women is almost the definition that we are doing what we are saying is not doing, that we are relaxing our demands for more women there. In fact, that is what Mrs Mona Juul said should be done here. What is Mrs Mona Juul's position on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222150938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222150939	Then it is simply because I am expressing myself incredibly badly and inappropriately. My point about the fit and property rules is that they are so tight right now that the field for recruiting is incredibly small. It is, regardless of sex, and I think that is very inappropriate, but I also note that there are very few women in that sector. And since the rules are as they are, and you just can't find any women that fit in with the fit and proper rules, it's just an example of how it's impossible to get women into top positions in the financial sector. So I'm just saying that there's something we're sitting in parallel looking at now... is actually an opportunity to look at whether we should, in any case, loosen up in relation to those rules. That would then mean that the field would increase, both for women and men, and frankly that is what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222151026	Sir. Ole Birk Olesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222151028	Well, I totally agree that you have to have a discussion about whether the fit and proper rules are too tight. It is generally a good discussion to take. However, when the argument is that in this way we can also get more women into board positions in the financial sector, it has come to be said that women find it harder to meet some very tough demands in that sector than men do and that this is why there are fewer women in that sector. It's not discrimination. It is about having general rules that more men than women can live up to.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222151105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222151106	No, I simply disagree with that. Well, traditionally there have been more men in the financial sector than there have been women. Now some rules have been drawn up which mean that women cannot be recruited because they do not come to the level of management needed to be recruited. When that is the case, we should loosen it and that means that more women are going to top positions in the financial sector, and I think that is actually very good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222151127	Thank you to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Danish People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222151140	Thank you. Unfortunately, because of very unfortunate circumstances which you have probably read about in the press, I have only received this matter on my desk today at 8 a.m. 10.15 and then it is quite ruthless to have to understand something that should actually be five, six independent legislative proposals when you look at it. I have been able to see that it is all good from the sea, and this is true from the point of view of quotas, which we debated on the previous point, in relation to how many men and women are going to be in companies, and we in the Danish People's Party are fundamentally opposed to it. So we are a little sad that when we see some good elements in the bill, we have to vote it down because of it, so we would urge the Minister to share this bill in at least two, and in the meantime we will look into what we are going to vote on the other parts of the bill and take a position on it. But in any case, if it is in this form, it is difficult to support. Therefore, because of the target figures, we will not be able to support it immediately now, but we would very much like to see us split up the legislative proposal so that we can also vote in favour of some of the good measures that are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222151303	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from New Citizens, and that is Mr. Lars Boje Mathisen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222151311	Thank you. Two people are looking for a position. One is a man, and the other is a woman. They have the same qualifications, the same training, they are equally qualified for the job, but due to some totalitarian, rigid rules from the Folketing, the company must employ the woman rather than the man. So the man does not get the job, just because he has a certain sex. Dear friends, that is the definition of discrimination. If you're elected out on your own because of your sex, it's discrimination. But now, apparently, we have a view among several parties here in the Folketing that as long as it's just about men, it's gonna be okay; then it doesn't matter that there's discrimination. I will never accept such discrimination, either for men or for women. So the proposal for target numbers and the quotas that follow along the way, of course, are discrimination. In addition, it is awfully derogatory to all the competent women who are out there and who must now be hanging over their heads, why they have been given this position, whether it is because of their gender or because of their competences, and it is also derogatory to those women who already have these positions and who have been given them because of their competences, that they should see that some people get them because of their sex. So it is both derogatory and discriminatory, and it is also a terrible totalitarian state intervention in the right of self-employed people and companies to run their businesses as they think they are right. That is why, of course, we cannot support a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222151545	Thank you, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur comes from the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Ole Birk Olesen. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222151554	My experience as a manager is relatively small. It's not because they're non-existent, I'm just saying they're relatively small. And that is why I do not want to know what kind of people companies should employ. And I don't have to be smart about it either, because these aren't my companies. There is a great deal about private ownership and the free market economy that people invest their own money in their own businesses. And yes, they can also borrow some money from a bank, but then the bank makes that money available voluntarily. You can also get investors, but investors make the money available voluntarily. So it is people's own business to create a business, and that is why the starting point is that they have to do with the companies what they want, as long as they do not harm the surrounding society. They can decide whether they want to hire people with red hair, or people with black hair, or whether they want to hire people from Jutland or people from Copenhagen, or whether they want to hire women or whether they want to hire men. It's their job to decide. That is not my job, and nobody else has to decide it either, because it is not our businesses. This is just like what should be the starting point for the way to operate in this country. And we can also be confident that it works in such a way that most companies employ most of the time people who are the best for the job or who are judged to be the best for the job. After all, the company that does this will have a competitive advantage vis-à-vis the company that does not. The company that consistently tries to hire the best employees, the best directors and the best board members is being run better and more competitively than another company that says: We don't care so much whether people are the best, we would rather have someone from Jutland, we would rather have some men, or we would rather have some women. That is why, over time, this will lead to the survival of companies employing on the basis of qualifications and to the death of companies employing on the basis of qualifications. So we do not really have to worry about the recruitments that are being made in companies. I do not think we can afford to do this either, because, as I said, it is other people's businesses and not our businesses. So for these reasons, we do not want the Folketing to demand that there should be targets for recruitment of one sex or another or the third sex. There are some who believe that there are more genders than two. We do not want these targets to be tightened up year after year until we reach 40%. of the underrepresented sex, etc. etc., which lies in this bill. For these reasons, we shall vote against the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222151905	Thank you, sir. Ole Birk Olesen. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. All the rapporteurs have taken the floor and then I can give the floor to the Minister for Industry. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222151932	In exactly 14 days it will be March 8th. It is International Women's Day, and for over 100 years that day has marked the women's struggle. In fact, this is a sad testimony to the fact that there are problems of equality in our society and that there have been so many years. Many of the problems are still with us today, but some of them are the solutions we have to deal with. More than 100 years ago, women did not even have the right to vote in Denmark, but then they changed the law, and today Denmark has a female prime minister for the second time, and today we can again solve some of the equality problems in our society with legislation. We can open the boardrooms and management hallways in the largest Danish companies, opening them up to more women than today. How this is to be done in concrete terms, I will go into a little more detail when I come to the legislative proposal that we are dealing with here. First of all, I would like to say a few words about why I think it is a problem that equality lags behind at the top of the Danish economy and why it is a major problem. It's a problem because it costs on the bottom line. Studies show very clearly that when you have a better gender diversity, it is good for the bottom line of companies. In other words, we are a poorer country than we really should be because we are lagging behind in terms of equality. Or to put it another way: Denmark can become richer if we do something here. Then it is also a problem because Denmark must be a country where there are equal opportunities, where it is not whether you are a man or a woman, rich or poor, or come from the city or live in the countryside, which determines your opportunities in life. The fight for equal opportunities is about equal opportunities for everyone, and it is, at least for me, a core value, both as a human being and also in my political activities. If we look at the facts, unfortunately the figures speak their clear and depressing language. Equality in Denmark is far too slow. In 5 years, the proportion of women on board has increased by almost 4 percentage points • barely 4 percentage points in 5 years! And that's at a low level, I should say hello. If that pace continues, if we vote against the bill here, if we do not do anything politically, we will have to go to the other side of 2040 before there will be approximately 40%. women on the Danish boards. And then I have not even talked to the levels below the boards of directors, namely the management channels and the other levels of management. It is simply moving too slowly and we are already behind schedule. If we look at this in relation to our Scandinavian neighbouring countries, they have more women in business management and it does not seem that we are approaching them in the near future. At home, we're making progress. Yes, yes, it does, but in a sad tug, at a slow pace that does not match the ambitions we have and which I think we should have. So, good colleagues, we need to speed up and new legislation has proved to be a tool in the past. New legislation is also an instrument in this context. With the bill we are debating today, we can set the course and speed up the pace, and that legislation is under discussion right now. The goal for me is that we, together with the Danish business community, set ambitious targets • targets that fully respect industry differences and different starting points for companies in the Kingdom, and which provide and allow companies to retain the management right and the scope to achieve their own goals and targets in their way. That is in the draft law we are discussing now. We must set targets that must be met when reaching them until we achieve a balanced distribution of men and women at the top of the Danish business community; targets that apply to more management levels than the board alone, which reach out into the company, and which focus on the whole food chain and hence the employees of the company itself. And no, targets are not the same as quotas. Target numbers are different. Target figures are the equal opportunities tool that companies and politicians can jointly use to promote this development. But will we not get poorer boards if we introduce target numbers? This is one of the arguments I have heard in the debate, both today and also in the media. Of course we don't. The target figures must support the consideration of more women, but of course the best and most suitable should win a man or woman. So, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, and perhaps especially my fellow citizens, let us see that there are real equality problems in our country. Don't let the ideological phonograph pin get stuck in the groove of the LP back from the years of youth policy. Don't let dandruffed ideology parols blind you to the problems that exist. I have heard so much talk and, in fact, I have heard so much complaining from the bourgeois side today, but I have not heard any suggestions, I have not heard any solutions. What are the political indications of how we achieve the objective that is so important to achieve? Together today, we can help make a positive difference to equality at the top of the Danish business community. We can do it without quotas with the law here, we can actually do it together with the Danish business community. And that's why high ambitions, goals, cooperation between us in politics and our hugely strong business community in Denmark are the way forward, and that's what this law allows for. That is why I also hope that when we get to the third reading of the legislative proposal, we have had such a good debate that there can be broad support for the legislative proposal here. And perhaps I should also like to end my speech here just to mention that the draft law that we are discussing today is also about some other elements. First of all, there is the proposal that foreign shareholders be given better opportunity to vote at the general meetings of Danish listed companies; this helps to strengthen democracy in the companies, and therefore it is a good move. Then, in the maritime sector, there is a guarantee of the basis for us to achieve fully in line with the introduction of digital ship registration; also something on which I believe we share common ambitions. Thirdly, we are also proposing a change to the e-commerce law, and these are some changes following up on the government's initiative to break down the dominance of the tech giants; here we would like to equip the consumer ombudsman with a stronger grip on the tech giants in order to ensure better consumer protection and fairer competition. And fourthly, the bill will allow information on the boards of the church councils and other legal persons registered in parish.dk to be transferred to the register of real owners in the CVR register, and that is something we do to avoid double registration and to ensure the maintenance of data; and I have noted the desire of several colleagues to be able to split the bill, and we will welcome that in committee work. So, with these comments, I look forward to the further examination of the draft law in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222152759	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments to be made to the Minister, and that is only from Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen, New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222152806	The minister is looking for solutions, and here's one that he gets for free: Stay out of it. It's the best solution. The whole idea that there is a business community out there that opts out of women because of their gender is quite crazy. And the fact that we have a government and a Minister of Industry who is now backing the agenda that there should be structural discrimination in the business world is completely crazy. It is absolutely crazy to accuse a business community of that. As far as I have read the legislation, discrimination on grounds of gender is already illegal. And then you stand and say: it may be illegal, but we consider that it is still going on, that the business community is breaking the law and is completely indifferent to these things. All I'm saying is that there I and New Civilians have a lot more faith in business than the government has. We believe that they employ the people they consider to be most competent for the jobs and do not distinguish between their genders, for, however, business is not so discriminatory.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222152915	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222152917	That is exactly what is so sad in this debate. Every time we talk about equality, we hear the same record from the New Citizens' rapporteur. It's the same record that the problems don't exist and that you just have to stay out of it, because it all goes well. The problem is that it does not, and the problem is that the discrimination which Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen fears that the bill will happen here, as it already exists today. It just exists with reverse sign. That is why I am highlighting the facts; that is why I am highlighting the percentages; that is why I am telling you how slow it is to get more women into our boards in our companies. That is because discrimination is taking place. If, at the same time, we know that when it happens and we do not have a better gender diversity on our boards, we also have a worse bottom line and a poorer society, why should we not, as politicians, help to do something about it? Why should we not promote a development that would be good? Is New Citizens not in favour of more equality in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153012	Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153014	If you say that this discrimination is going on, can the Minister not tell me how many trials have been in the last five years on discrimination on grounds of sex and on women who could not get certain jobs? How many trials have there been? There must have been legal proceedings if there are all the cases that the Minister says. If this is going on in business on such a large scale that the Minister says that there is a need for legislation to correct it, then the Minister must be able to easily mention how many cases there have been. There must be evidence. I do not think that is the case, but it would be nice if the Minister could tell us about it. Now the Minister himself mentions the percentage. And there it is that it has risen from 20%. 26 per cent. in the listed companies. This means that if linear development continues, the 40% will have been achieved within 10 years. without new legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153058	I did not get an answer as to whether New Citizens really want more equality in Denmark. In fact, I am very much in doubt as to whether you want it from the New Citizens' Party. You keep coming up with straws in the debate, and you keep coming up with arguments that have nothing to do with reality. Stick to it, my fellow citizens, because I actually hear a lot of people who just silently accept sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen's interpretation that there are real equality problems in Denmark. We can do something about them if we want to. And to do that, there must be legal proceedings for discrimination before you want to do anything about it: Jesus Christ, you have given up in this fight in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153133	May I remind the Minister of something, and it is with the higher powers passing, but it is more the use of direct indictments to all the honourable Members, and direct indictment is also, when it is in the majority, i.e. by saying 'yes'. So it's also direct indictment, and it won't work. The next brief remark is to Mrs Heidi Bank, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153154	Thank you for that and thank you for the speech by the Minister. I find it extremely regrettable that when the Minister stands and wants to see equality, it should be spoken as if we were strongly divided. After all, we do not disagree that it is good that there is a mixed composition on boards; we do not disagree that it is good if we have men and women in politics and in all sorts of other social functions, in boards, in volunteering, all sorts of other things, which are also equality. So this is all about a view of whether companies can themselves and whether they are already in the process, and many companies are working on it here and working on it in everyday life and are, in fact, much further ahead than what the Minister is putting forward and expressing. But let me just ask a question, because it really provokes me a little, that I hear the Minister repeatedly saying that it makes a difference whether there are men or women in a company in relation to the bottom line. Well, what kind of evidence is that? Because, as we see it in the Left, it is of course a matter of men and women being equal regardless of gender, and therefore I am somewhat surprised that the Minister can refer to the fact that this gives a better bottom line. So I would very much like to know where that investigation came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153310	I would like to start by saying that it would be positive if we could reach an agreement. In fact, it is also my wish that the bourgeois parties, including the Left, will decide before the third reading and change their position, in order to support this bill to promote equality in Denmark. And when I react a little directly, it is because I am disappointed to see that in the debate from any of the bourgeois parties or from the Left I do not hear any proposals or vision of how to promote equality at the top of Danish business. It must simply take its course, I understand the position of the Left. The problem is that the pace at that time is very, very slow, and I think we owe each other something for equality. And I want to do something for equality, and the government does, and that's why we're putting this bill forward. I hope that the Left will vote in favour of it. With regard to some of the places where there is evidence of this bottom line issue, I can say that McKinsey reports have been made and that IMF reports have been made showing that a better gender diversity is also better for the bottom line, and I think it almost also goes without saying that the more different looks there are on the operation and management of a company, the better the bottom line is achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153425	Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153426	But when the Minister brings it up, the Minister knows and also knows that it does not concern gender. It's a question of competences. This concerns how many people you have to take, and that's why it's interesting to get all citizens into the game, whether you're a man or a woman, to these positions we have in society. This is a trade, for example. to make sure we have enough up through the systems. That is also why it is incredibly exciting about what we are seeing at the moment, where we have so many women taking higher education, but it does not matter what higher education they are taking. If you are going into business, it is also important that they are professionally oriented. After all, we have the opposite challenge in the public sector, where we have many women coming in. So I think it's a shame that the Minister is putting this up as if it's the Holy Grail that's in target numbers. This is about us thinking much wider and much deeper into the underlying problems. And I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153518	Time had passed a long time ago. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153522	Of course, it must be the most skilled who manage Danish companies. Of course it must be the talents, and of course it must be those who have the right skills and qualifications. But the Left also has to have its eyes open to the fact that for half of the Danish population, namely our female fellow citizens, management channels and board rooms are much more closed country than it is to male talents. And that is why we do not bring the female talents into the light to a sufficient degree. And that's what goal numbers can help with, and that's why this bill here is a good bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153557	The last brief remark is to Mrs Mona Juul, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153600	Thank you. I think that the Minister just fired up a little bit in here in relation to the fact that he was involved in youth policy and one thing and the other. I just haven't been there at all, so it's certainly not about some slogans there. I think it's great that we have this dialogue. I think it is very good that we are looking at equality. It's just not necessarily numbers that do it. It can be a lot of other things. Often it's the case that if you're having a party, it's a little more fun that you're a little mixed up and something like that, and it's perfectly natural that you do it. For some it is quite natural in a company that you also think that if there are ten men, it might be very clever that the next two were women etc. When it does not come naturally all the way through, and when the Minister says that it provides a better bottom line, it usually is a fairly large marker and a pointer for companies to act and say: we will probably have done something about it. When it's so clear a pointer, why is it so simple that it doesn't happen anyway? What is the reason for this? Has the minister looked at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153704	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153706	I think that is actually quite obvious. These are the barriers that have been established historically and for decades in our society. In fact, I think that the rapporteur again gave a rapporteur's speech today about the call being made and asking: can the rapporteur help find some talented women for a board of directors here in my company? After all, there is a barrier to who it is, you know, what networks it is, and in relation to the rip, rap and the rup effect, so it has a name, all of it, and it exists. Those barriers exist and they stand in the way of the bottom line improvement that we can create. But by making targets and saying to each other that the targets must be raised, so that we end up having a fair distribution, we also sharpen the management focus in companies to look for the talents of the female part of our population. And too little is being looked at today. You find talented female talents, but you could find many more. And targets can help with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153804	Mrs. Mona Juul.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153805	This is where I think we disagree. If the Minister at least claims, and perhaps also knows, that having more diversity in management and board of directors and so on gives more on the bottom line, then I am just surprised that there are not automatically some mechanisms in the company that make them act on the basis of it. We don't see that there is. The examples I give are about some of the obstacles, some of the leg buckles I see. But when it is so clearly important for companies to create more on the bottom line, why not? Then it must be some other thing, sir. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: And I am simply interested to hear whether the government wants to look at those insights rather than just look at some target numbers or some quotas in the long term.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153855	I admit that these were not the slogans of youth policy, but they are basically based on the same thing. There is the old bourgeois view that the market will manage everything if only the market gets peace and quiet to it. But what if there's a market failure here? What if there is a mistake in the market that makes that, although it was actually the most optimal, there are some barriers, some structures in our society that make women not sufficiently come out in the spotlight, the spotlight, call it what you want? Then we will usually be able to join forces to remedy those market failures, and that is what a draft law can do here. Is that all you have to do? No, I don't think so. And therefore: Yes, let us look at what else can be done. I just miss proposals from the bourgeois parties to promote equality in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153938	The next brief remark is to Mrs Samira Nawa, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222153941	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, to the Minister for the speech. It was a very good speech, and I also remember that the Minister made a very good speech when we dealt with the Radical Left's motion for a resolution B 91, of which I imagine this bill may also come from a little, so I would also like to thank you for listening. I can of course hear a little bit that the Minister is trying to get some of the bourgeois parties on board in terms of target numbers, and now I will try to get the Minister on board with regard to quotas, because I fully agree with the Minister that targets and quotas are two different things. In 2010, the Radical Left tabled, among other things, a number of amendments. together with the Social Democratic Party a motion for a resolution that we should have real quotas for the under-represented sex on listed companies' boards. Radical Left is back in the old 2010 position, but how about Social Democracy? What do you do with thoughts? I understand that we are dealing here with targets, but it is not certain that it can accelerate the process quickly enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222154041	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222154043	I think it is right to go with target figures, because I think, as I also said in my speech, and thank you for the praise for the fact that this is where we have the opportunity, politicians and companies together, to take the errand of the equality struggle and move things, so that you have a management right, and you have the opportunity, if you are a construction company or another company, where the starting point is heavier than it may be in other industries, to be able to set the target figures from your own starting point. I believe in target numbers, I think it can move something, and I think we can do it together with our companies and thus achieve results that we have been sighing for for years. I do not think that quotas would be the right way to go, because for me there can at least be a concern that Christiansborg and our companies will then face each other. I think that with the legislative proposal we are debating today, we have the opportunity to go together out of the way of equality. And fortunately, I actually hear our Danish business community and organisations support what you want to do to make this happen. So that's why we're going with target numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222154149	Mrs. Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222154151	I agree with the Minister that this is certainly a step in the right direction, but I would also like to ask whether it does not impress the Minister when prominent business leaders and indeed not only women, but also men, in fact, quietly mention that it might be that you should have real quotas, because we have tried target numbers before it was introduced, it has been abolished, and now we are introducing it again. But does it not impress the Minister that there are also business leaders and top managers who mention this with quotas, not because you are a huge fan of them, but because it is a necessary evil if you want to do what both the Minister and I would like, namely equal opportunities for both women and men and access to board rooms?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222154241	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222154242	I fully understand the impatience, which fortunately is also in parts of our business community, in the fact that equality lags behind too much in our business community too. That is why I understand the saying: let us try quotas or some other tools. But that is all something that is being said before this legislation on target numbers has entered into force. That is why I would like to see the effects of these target figures, which will have to be supplemented by new target figures once the target has been reached, until we achieve a balanced distribution, which I think is our common objective in this matter. So I think we have found a good tool here, and I would also like to sign up to the Radical Left for pushing this debate, and to a large extent to help us stand where we stand today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222154321	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222154334	The debate is open. The first rapporteur comes from the Social Democratic Party, and that is Mr. Orla Sea. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222154355	Thank you for that, President. With L 118, this is again a legislative package with good intentions and balance in relation to financial activities. Let me mention that the strengthening of the protection of policy holders, which is specified in the rules on the ability of life insurance companies to provide medical and accident insurance, is made with clarifications which clarify the requirements for the operation and durability of the business model of insurance companies and confer powers on the FSA in this context. Insurance companies are allowed to carry out what is called another business, and this can be done by the insurance company being able to operate health and care services in a subsidiary, something close to what the insurance company knows very well about through its insurance business. Then I think we should put a line under the fact that the Danish social security number system is unique and has stood the test for many years. However, it is also important that we are open to providing opportunities to continue to use the social security number system, and the draft law proposes a general legal basis for dealing with the personal numbers of a number of companies, if necessary, in order to clearly identify a customer in an existing customer relationship. It will support digitalisation and ensure that existing customers can manage their financial products easily and safely or receive advice. Finally, there is the set of rules on the possibilities and limitations of the use of cash in our society, and that is certainly where the hit is, because it gives rise to a great deal of discussion. Here it is suggested that there should be room for two changes, namely that traders should not be obliged to receive cash in trade with other traders, and that the previous dispensation practice for the cash rule should be formalized, so that festivals and similar events, and I would believe that the same could be markets and such arrangements of a temporary nature, will no longer be required to apply for a derogation from the cash rule in future. The ability to limit the use of cash in our society takes up a great many people in our business community, and technology means that there are also fewer and fewer people using cash, and there is both security and appropriateness in that. However, we should be aware that the use of cash is the safety net of citizens who are not confidential and do not have the opportunity to use all sorts of digital hardware. We must not let them down. Similarly, it is wise to remember that technology sometimes fails, then the power is not there, then there are hacker attacks, and what do I know, and then the opportunity must be present for citizens in order to be able to spend cash in those situations. Therefore, it is a wise balancing of these considerations that lies in L 118, although some have the courage to drive faster. The Social Democratic Party considers this to be a sensible legislative proposal and we can endorse it and would like to take part in sensible committee work on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222154736	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Left, and this is Mrs Heidi Bank. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222154747	Thank you. I have to say that this is a speech I make on behalf of the Left's business rapporteur, Torsten Schack Pedersen. Overall, we welcome the bill. It contains nine adjustments to the financial regulation, which has its origins in EU rules, which are basically aimed at strengthening financial regulation. It is very technical and I would like to spare the audience the opportunity to explain it in detail, but we are fundamentally positive about it. Society is moving in a more digital direction, and we are experts in the digital transformation in Denmark. That is why it is quite natural that the draft law relaxes the cash rules. In the past, the Left has fought for a relaxation of the obligation of cash between traders. It therefore became part of last year's agreement on strengthened audit requirements precisely in the light of the Left's desire to ensure that administrative burdens were eased. This is now happening with the bill, which is positive. The bill also ensures that festivals, for example, do not have to apply for exemption from the cash rules year after year, and robbed areas may not have cash for a few hours more in the evening. This ensures less administrative costs and creates safer conditions in the retail trade, but also for festivals, as it reduces the risk of robbery and the like. Of course, in committee we must ensure that the cut is quite right, so that people who, for one reason or another, like to use cash, can also do it where it makes sense. Where we are a bit sceptical about the bill, the part about the business separation between the life insurance company and the sickness and accident insurance company is. It is important that we safeguard the Danish pension system. It is unique in many ways and is generally characterised by a high degree of stability, security and freedom for the individual pensioner. The pension system is in many ways a cornerstone of the Danish welfare system. For the same reason, I fully agree with the Danish FSA that it is important that the Danish pension companies operate both securely and sustainably. And it is also my clear view that the Danish pension sector, both overall and in relation to the individual pension companies, is both well-driven, financially sustainable and transparent. Despite this, we in the Left are concerned that in practice the draft law represents a significant over-implementation of the Solvency II Directive in a number of areas. That is, for example, the case. We believe that the Solvency II Directive requires only separate management of life assurance and sickness and accident insurance, but not requirements for the organisation of the business itself. The organisational aspect is important, first and foremost because an explicit requirement for organisation leads to higher administrative costs for companies and ultimately higher prices for customers. A more comprehensive separation than is necessary between life assurance and non-life insurance would effectively counteract the Danish pension model for pension schemes in the labour market with total pension schemes. It is therefore necessary to clarify exactly what the concept of organisation implies and why it is necessary to put forward a legislative proposal which seems to go further than the directive requires. It is not clear to us that the Solvency II Directive really requires this. If there is an explicit requirement in the directive, we are, of course, open to discussing how best to implement it. Despite several good elements of the bill and the commendable objective of ensuring that the Danish pension companies are run properly, we in the Left are concerned that the state is actively imposing additional costs and burdens on well-run and successful private companies. The operation of private companies must, as far as is possible and justifiable, be managed and determined by the individual company. We see that there are good tactics and intentions with the bill. And we look forward to further committee work in which we must ensure a solution that does not give pension companies unnecessary burdens and customers higher prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222155205	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There is no wish for short remarks to be made to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur comes from the Socialist People's Party, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222155221	Thank you. I have been given a speech by our business rapporteur, who unfortunately cannot be here today. That's why it's gonna be very short. First of all, I would like to say that we agree with the proposal, and I note in particular that supervision of persons who draw up or disseminate investment recommendations is strengthened. We're really happy about that in the SF. We are also very pleased that we are now discussing the cash rule, because it is a really difficult discussion, and it is a delicate balance when it comes to finding the best solution. As everything is digitized more and more, cash becomes a rare sight in the street picture. And in the SF we think it makes sense that we do not impose unnecessarily high burdens on business. It is therefore also good that we are now making the cash rule more flexible than it has been. But the cash rule is for us in SF about balancing both to take into account the people in Denmark who still need to be able to pay with cash, and to the store owners. That is why it is absolutely crucial that we continue to follow developments in this area, because of course we must bring everyone along, and there are still many who prefer to pay in cash. For some, it is even their only payment option. So in the SF we look forward to the further discussion of the area and we will follow developments closely. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222155339	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There is also no wish for brief comments to be made to the rapporteur here. The next rapporteur comes from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Katrine Robsøe. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222155352	Thank you for the floor. It is a bit of a bunch of weddings that the Minister of Business has invited to today, and that is why I will not go through the whole series. Good colleagues have already done so. For Radicals, it is of course important that the law is kept up to date, and in many ways this is what the bill here does. As others have mentioned, the bill also deals with cashless B2B trading and the extension of the possibility of doing cashless business in special robbery-like areas. There is a balance in this area that can be difficult to find, i.e. the balance between the buyer's ability to pay with cash and the company's ability to make payments digital. However, I think that the enlargements here in the draft law are in any case very sensible. The bill also deals with several other parts, which I also think are sensible, in order to ensure our digital development and at the same time protect the consumer. I look forward to the committee reading and Radicals support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222155507	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. It's Enhedslisten first. Although the rapporteur is quick, the President insists that the order be observed. That is why I welcome the rapporteur, Mr Enhedslisten. Rune Lund. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222155531	Thank you. There are several good things in this bill and they have been mentioned by other rapporteurs. I will focus on what I consider to be the worrying part of the legislative proposal, namely the general legal basis that the proposal will give to financial companies to process personal numbers without the consent of customers. The reason for this should be to ensure a clear identification of the individual customer without imposing an excessive administrative burden on the undertakings. However, in the view of Enhedslisten, it appears that it is too broad a legal basis which can lead to almost unlimited access to the processing of personal numbers. This may result in a light skating over the customer's right to privacy. The Enhedslisten believes, in agreement with the Consumer Ombudsman, that consideration of the administrative burden should give way to the essential consideration of the protection of consumer confidential information. Perhaps a solution can be found by introducing the amendment to the legislative text proposed by the Consumer Council, which limits the legal basis to existing customer relationships. This means that this applies neither to the award of contracts nor to other situations where there is no mutual contractual relationship. From the perspective of the Enhedslisten, we have plans to table amendments on precisely that in the legislative process here. Despite this criticism of this element of the bill, Enhedslisten generally welcomes the bill in its entirety, and we look forward to the committee reading so that we can get closer around it here for Enhedslisten to see the worrying element.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222155718	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There is no wish for short remarks. The next rapporteur comes from the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mona Juul. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222155729	Thank you for that and apologise to the Enhedslisten rapporteur for being so eager to come up and take the platform on it here. In any case, I would like to begin by thanking you for the floor. Today's second proposal, for my part, is a number of elements which are once again squashed together in a proposal which mainly deals with necessary changes to financial regulation, among other things. as a result of pan-European regulation. The most interesting thing that I see at least is the proposal to adjust the rules for the exercise of other activities by insurance undertakings in connection with their authorisation as an insurance undertaking, including so-called ancillary undertakings. After all, the industry is subject to a host of rules, and from this we think it is good to ensure that they can operate other types of business, as the European Commission's interpretation of EU rules proposes to remove the current possibility of building, owning and operating real estate and infrastructure within the insurance company itself. There are also proposals that the insurance company should be able to operate health and care services in a subsidiary as ancillary services if they are linked to the company's authorisation. We actually think it's really good. The only other comment I have immediately is on section 5 of the draft law, which concerns the amendment of the payment law and which provides for an adjustment of the cash rule, so that payments between traders are exempted from cash obligations. It is the implementation of part of an agreement on revision that Conservatives are not included in, and I do not think it is quite fair to link that part to a single proposal, but it is not something we are in a nodo position over if one can say so from here. Indeed, we can also support relaxing the rules so that we can be exempt from taking cash between the hours. 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. 22 in vulnerable areas. It's been run as a test, and we're thinking it's working really well. But I am going to ask a question about conferences, events and festivals where there may be some challenges. But aside from that, Conservatives vote for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222155918	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the DF and that is Mrs Mette Hjermind Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222155936	Thank you. The draft law aims overall to implement a number of changes to financial legislation in order to implement pan-European regulation and to ensure up-to-date rules, including more investor information, clarification of rules for investment funds and the possibility of derogating from the dispersal rules, adaptation of the cash rule, implementation of rules on the recovery and resolution of central counterparties, adjustment of rules for the exercise of other activities by insurance companies, and adaptation of rules on the liability of payment service providers in the event of missing or delayed transactions. The draft law is a longer technical proposal in the financial field. I will therefore focus on selected impact points. For the Danish People's Party, the cash rule is a special point of attention. It is essential for the general cash obligation to be maintained with the bill, subject to certain limitations, for example a derogation from the cash rule within the contractual freedom of the parties in respect of payments made by non-consumers. In addition, it is proposed, in relation to the cash rule, that the requirement to provide prior information to the FSA should be abolished in order to reduce administrative burdens where payment recipients located in special robbery-related areas wish to derogate from the constant rules during the night hours. Finally, in relation to the cash rule, proposals are also made for the designation of competent national authorities in the context of the EU legal framework for the recovery and resolution of central counterparties and the power of the National Bank to impose fines on payment system operators under the Capital Markets Act. Cash continues to play an important role in society, and cash is particularly important for people who, for various legitimate reasons, prefer to use cash over other payment instruments, and citizens who have a difficult path to the banking system and electronic means of payment. Therefore, the possibility of paying with cash remains particularly important for certain groups in society. These groups include not only older people but also showing disabled fellow citizens, minors and others with limited or no access to digital payment services. We in the Danish People's Party are therefore pleased that the cash rule is essentially maintained. In addition, a special focus in the draft law is the integration of sustainability risks into corporate governance as a result of EU regulation. The bill introduces a definition of sustainability risk concerning, inter alia: so-called social and environmental conditions. In the Danish People's Party, we are opposed to the EU interfering in how companies want to ensure sustainable corporate governance. All in all, however, given the adjustments in the financial field and the retention of the cash rule, we can support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222160251	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. Then we should welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222160258	Thank you. This proposal limits the use of cash in Danish society, and in New Citizens we fight to preserve Danish coins and Danish notes. There are many reasons for this. We do not believe that the state and the banks should have access to see all about where you've been trading. It's simply about privacy. We also believe that cash in itself has a historically important value, which helps to draw the story of our beautiful country, and we must also safeguard that. Once we roll down there and cash is phased out and disappears from Danish society and the crown disappears, I also fear that it will be slightly easier for the parties that want to adopt the euro in Denmark to take that step when we then may only have digital payment methods. Then I also believe that there is in fact an increased risk of this if you go over and become a hundred percent dependent on electronic means of payment. We see cybercrime and other things, and I see some sense in the fact that we still have physical notes. I understand, and I recognise that this proposal is not, of course, a proposal which prohibits the use of cash, but it is moving in that direction and it is moving towards fewer people being able to use cash. And I understand that parts of the business community can want this when it is an easier solution and a less bureaucratic solution. I fully acknowledge that it may be. But I am also convinced that everything cannot be made up in crowns and ears. Something has a value too. And I fully acknowledge that developments are going against electronic payments; it would probably be naive to imagine otherwise. However, we must preserve the value of having cash, notes and coins, including for our older citizens in society. Then I can say in a small aside that I also think it would be sensible for us to move the production of coins and notes back from Finland and France to the Danish Kingdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222160519	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber immediately, and so I would like to welcome the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222160528	Thank you very much for that, and thank you for the very positive comments on the draft law in general. It is true that this is a comprehensive legislative proposal which is extremely extensive, and I shall only try to highlight a few of the most important elements here, in my opinion. Firstly, the draft law makes it possible for our insurance and pension companies to operate with health and care services as something new. It is a wish we have heard for a long time from the companies. It should only be done in a subsidiary in the form of a so-called ancillary service company. And that is something that needs to be done to ensure the protection of consumers' savings in this context. Secondly, the draft law also clarifies the rules on the ability of life insurance companies to provide sickness and accident insurance. These are also those that are called the SUL insurances, and we do so so that companies can clearly see what requirements are for both the operation and durability of the business model, and so that it becomes clearer what powers the FSA has in this context. The idea is not to regulate what individual products should look like by the insurance companies themselves but it is a healthy principle that the products have a sustainable business model and can also be economically resting in themselves. This applies even more when not all customers have such sickness and accident insurance associated with their pension savings. So it therefore provides a protection for customers that there is an economic separation between pension savings on the one hand and insurance on the other. Thirdly, as has also been pointed out, we will update the so-called cash rule in the payment law. The proposal exempts traders from cash obligations in the case of payments between traders, i.e. what is also referred to as B2B transactions. It will, of course, make it easier for traders if we remove this obligation to take cash for traders when they trade with other traders. You can say it a little picturesque: If two crawlers want to keep the big wallet, they can still do it. But it is a bit much if you are actually obliged to accept rolls of hundreds of kroner notes from other traders. So this exception follows from the broad political agreement of 23 June last year on the future need for revision. Then we will also remove a duty of notification which, in practice, has caused more trouble than it has done. In the case of shops in special areas of robbery, it is true that today they have the opportunity not to accept cash after 1 p.m. 8:00 a.m. instead of after 8:00 a.m. 22.00, but only if they have informed the FSA. We will also remove this obligation to notify with the bill here, and instead the shops in the specially threatened areas will only be able to sign it, which makes it easier for the shops as well as, of course, for the customers as well as our authorities. Finally, we will formalise the existing dispensation practice for the cash rule in relation to these temporary arrangements. It could, for example, be done. be festivals or city parties or other similar events. There we see today a clear and unambiguous practice of granting exemptions to the cash rule, and that is the practice we would like to write into the law so that it is clearer for both companies and citizens. Finally, I would like to point out that the proposal will also allow credit institutions and insurance companies to process the personal numbers of their customers, but of course only if this is necessary for a clear identification in an existing customer relationship. This will help to support digitalisation and make administration and advice easier and also safer for the customer. In addition to the changes I have mentioned here, there are also some minor adjustments to ensure that the legislation is up to date. In those words, I shall look forward to the further examination of the draft law in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222160958	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222161030	The debate is open and first of all we must welcome the Social Democrat rapporteur. It's sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222161038	Thank you for that, President. It's a big day today. All of us who deal with rural policy and care a little about the situation of ordinary Danes outside the big cities have known for years that there were problems and imbalances in credit provision in housing purchases. Finally, we can now meet in this Chamber to deal first with a concrete proposal to give a state guarantee for housing purchases in rural areas. Overall, it is quite simple for house buyers. If you are authorized to buy a home somewhere in Denmark and it costs less than DKK 8,000. per m2 or costs between 8,000 or 10,000 DKK. and is in one of the postal codes listed in Annex 1, so you have the possibility to buy a property and get a state guarantee for the portion of credit that is between 60 and 90 per cent. of the cash value of the property at the time of trading. And then you're thinking, what's Annex 1? It is a long list of postal numbers in rural municipalities in Denmark. It's pretty simple to go to. There are, of course, a number of underlying conditions, such as the creditor having to be approved, the payment of guarantee commission and the fact that it is basically uncomplicated for the buyer in relation to the fact that an alternative is that there is absolutely no funding for mortgage loans. I have attended countless citizens' meetings during committee trips with the Rural Committee, where funding for housing purchases has been presented as a problem in line with poor mobile coverage and lack of broadband. We have repeatedly tried to get Financial Denmark to recognise that there is a problem, but without success, and it is also clear from the financial consultation answers that they still do not believe that there is a need for a state guarantee and that there is, moreover, a problem. In this closed circle I would just like to say that one must be immensely tone-deaf if one does not understand that it is a real problem if one wants it to be possible to live and live throughout the country. All the more so, I am extremely pleased to be able to say that the Social Democratic Party supports the bill and looks forward to it working.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222161307	Thank you very much to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. And then the rapporteur of the Left is to be welcomed. Welcome to Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222161320	Thank you. Left wants Danes to have the opportunity to settle throughout the country, from Skagen in the north to Gedser in the south, from Blåvandshuk in the east to Østerkær in the west, in town and on land, on mainland and on islands, including the small ones. We are very aware of the urbanisation that is going on and has been doing so for a long time. Maybe it's natural. And we are also very aware of the challenges it creates, also in relation to the right solutions. What really is the challenge we face for people who dream of living in rural areas? As you know, we need to understand a problem in order to resolve it, and we very much agree with the Governor of the Central Bank that state guarantees should be used with considerable caution and reserved for situations where it is deemed necessary to mitigate a market error. The question is therefore whether the draft law on State-guaranteed mortgages is the right solution. We have asked several times what the challenge is, as early as back before the summer of 2020, because already today housing in the areas and postal numbers in question will receive mortgage lending. In the case of refusals, it is most often because the potential buyer's meat, i.e. the economy of the person is not strong enough. It is also on the basis of guidelines that have been decided politically, both in town and on land. But the model that has been put forward makes it more expensive to borrow, not cheaper. This does not put the individual citizen or family who wants to buy houses in rural areas better, but worse, and the model itself is complex and makes you think of cannons and grey sparrows, and I might have a concern when the Minister's political announcement was more about an imminent municipal election than real improvements for rural areas. For the scheme administratively heavy with the process, workflows and documentation established and with the involvement of several institutions, also Financial Stability. In short, it is animals operating with, among other things, animals. the IT systems to be developed and it is expensive not only for borrowers but also for lenders with the commission to be paid by both parties. The proposed scheme opens up many flanks and raises even more questions about solutions which are not provided for in the draft law but which, I hope, will be clarified by a committee procedure. Right now we're looking into a change in the housing market. Higher interest rates may result in falling prices. It will affect trade prices and valuation across the country. Is this going to affect this bill? It appears that the Minister will take the industry on advice, Finance Denmark and other relevant actors when implementing the technical conditions so that the scheme will operate as smoothly as possible. Can the Minister put this into practice any more? It has been a long time since the Minister announced that the Minister wanted a State guarantee. Will the Minister consider the requirement for an auditor's report? Will the Minister consider the risk-sharing? It is, of course, positive that experience with the new legislation and the model of State guarantee should be gathered on the basis of dialogue with the financial sector, but how and at what rate will the Minister gather these experiences? The scheme is set to run for 3 years. Is it only after three years? And what are the criteria for abolishing or continuing the scheme? We can also be concerned about what happens if the scheme is shut down and you, as a borrower, want to sell your house, let us say four years after purchase, but now without the possibility of a state guarantee for a new buyer. We look forward to a constructive committee procedure, but we would also like to stress that it would have been appropriate for the Minister to have reached the parties of the Folketing to find a common solution. That hasn't happened. And here at the back, I would say that if we are to bring about improvements in rural areas, we must ensure that people, single families, can see the opportunities. We need to make it attractive to live all over the country. Under the auspices of the Ministry of Home and Home Affairs, we have been engaged in planning negotiations since spring 2021, and it could be good if the country's Minister of Business was committed to precisely securing the opportunities for jobs, for companies, for tourism and for settlement that help make it attractive to live throughout the country. It is about creating a framework that allows rural areas to develop sustainably. Those were the words of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222161806	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222161811	I do not think I got very clever about whether the Left supports this proposal as it stands here. For 7-8 years, the Left has been talking about making it attractive to live in rural areas. For 7-8 years since I put forward the first proposal for a solution, the Left has not provided any indication of how we are going to solve this challenge of people not getting loans in rural areas. So please answer me quite frankly: is the Left in favour of the proposal as it stands here, or is the Left in favour of voting no if the 117 questions that the Left has are not answered and fulfilled?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222161848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222161849	I will answer that clearly, but I will start by saying that what amazes me is that the rapporteur is not more concerned about whether this is a system that could be used seriously, i.e. whether it would be too expensive for borrowers. This is actually quite expensive for those families who may not already have the largest economy. There's a reason for this scheme to come into force. Those families may not have the biggest economy in need of this help, and then you put an additional cost on them. So we actually have a concern that we are making it more expensive for some people who want this help to make it more attractive to have a residence in a rural area, and we think that is a pity. We do not believe that this is the right solution as it stands. But we would have liked to enter into a dialogue with the Minister, with the other parties in the Folketing, where we had a look at what it is then for some measures, and some of that I actually get mentioned in my rapporteur's speech is about making it more attractive to live in rural areas, i.e. ensuring that there are opportunities for development, ensuring that it is easier. In other words, some of what this proposal does not go into is something like business, for example. loaning if you're going out to buy a property for any business. It's not part of this either, so there's a lot of questions this doesn't cover. I can really be worried about what it can contribute at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222161959	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162001	I do not think it came under the definition of a clear answer. Yes or no, does the Left support what is here? In fact, I think that if you don't support this and try it out and say yes to it, you leave those families behind. Today people are forced into the arms of the Outdoor Bank with prices of 8, 9, 10%. at interest rate. So that's a very significant proportion of what you're going to do with this bill. At the same time, it gives a little more security in relation to the possibilities than if you had to go to the market that the Left is talking about here. I think that Finance Denmark would be really satisfied with the speech by the Left here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162038	Mrs. Heidi Bank, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162039	We do not support the bill as it stands here, and it is actually because we are worried about these people. In other words, when the rapporteur says that they are being forced into the arms of someone, it is precisely because we have made political decisions here in the Folketing that we must help to ensure that we cannot have a loan for which we do not have an economy. So I guess it's worth recognizing too, that these are the rules we set up ourselves. This is a regulation we have made ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162105	Thank you. I think I will have to give the floor first to Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162120	In the light of the answer given by the rapporteur to the SF's rapporteur, I should like to ask whether the Left supports the idea of granting a state guarantee at all, in order to ease the difficulties involved in obtaining loans in certain parts of the country with certain postal numbers. Is the idea even supported? I very much doubted it because of the answer given to the SF rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162150	I am happy to give the answer again, but I really think I answered quite clearly. But no, we do not support the proposal as it stands here, and we do not, because we do not believe that it is good enough. I could also turn it around and say that there is a 3-year scheme here. I also mentioned it in my rapporteur's speech. But what about the families who buy this scheme if that scheme is not there in four years' time? Are they supposed to be stick-bound? What about their finances? There's just a lot of questions. So when we want to do something good, it has to be done properly, and here I am concerned that we are not doing it properly at all if we go this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162222	Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162225	I do not entirely disagree with the fact that there are problematic issues in the draft law. I would also like to draw your attention to this when I come to give my rapporteur's speech. But the essence of the proposal is that we move on to granting a state guarantee in order to allow some people to settle in some rural areas with some postal numbers that they have not had before. I understand, then, that the whole idea of granting a state guarantee is not supported by the Left. It leaves you with the question: What do you do? So far, it has not worked with the existing loan rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162304	Heidi Bank, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162304-2	I think that is a very good question. One of the things that needs to be done is precisely to ensure rural development by precisely ensuring that there is a good infrastructure and job opportunities, that there are good schools and day care institutions, so all the things that make it attractive to live in these areas. Of course, this also requires us to be aware that there are some areas where it will be more attractive and other areas where it will be less attractive. Nor is it everywhere that we have to keep our hands under. However, I do not want to jeopardise the private economy of families by the fact that there is a scheme that is not properly thought out. That is what I think can happen if, for example, you do. I'm gonna sell after 41⁄2 years if this scheme doesn't go any further.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162346	Then I would like to give the floor to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162351	Thank you. The rapporteur's speech sounded really good at the beginning, but then I thought it changed some character. I would really like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur has spoken to his good colleagues in the party, Mr President. Peter Juel-Jensen and Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt. Because I have been listening for ten years to the fact that we have been talking about something having to be done about this. And they've been front-runners compared to this. I simply do not understand that the Left has chosen another rapporteur. It may be timely or a little easier if you're going to stand up and say that we don't want to be part of this after all. That's really, really many people out there, this is all about. It's not about them not having the economy in order. It's about them just not being allowed to borrow for the house they want to live in. We've heard lots of examples that people are told that you can't borrow for that house, but you can borrow three times as much for that house, as long as it's in another zip code. That's the reality. The alternative is that you are not allowed to borrow at all, or that you have to borrow from them, as Mrs Lorentzen Dehnhardt says, namely some pawnsharks, or that you have to have bank loans that cost the whites out of your eyes. That's the alternative. After all, none of these people will be allowed to obtain a loan if they are not approved in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162458	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162501	Now it is the case that we have been trying to get a better understanding of what kind of problems are involved. It has been rejected by the Social Democratic Minister in this area, that is to say that we could get this insight. This is something we have asked over and over again. We have done so together with the SF in this area. So it would have been nice. Because if we do not know the problem sufficiently, then we cannot provide the right solutions, and the challenge here is to try to provide a solution, but that solution has not been thought out far enough. I just ask again: what about the people who are using this scheme, and then we might be standing in four years' time when the scheme is gone? What are they left with if they've gotten bought at too high a price because they can't sell on? Well, I think it is quite a responsibility to take on the shoulders of social democracy, i.e. to be willing to create that uncertainty about people's economy. 'Cause this hits into the prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162552	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162554	I am now quite sure that the questions that the rapporteur has rightly asked have been answered. As I have read both the hearings and the comments from the Ministry in relation to them, there are answers to these questions. However, it is good to have the questions put again if it can convince the Left that it is a good idea to support the bill. I'm just saying that this is a great opportunity for us to get started, that people are allowed to get mortgages all over Denmark, because that is not the case today. I just want to ask the rapporteur something. Now that there are the right answers and when all the concerns raised by the rapporteur are resolved, will the Left vote in favour of this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162632	Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162632-2	But I actually think that I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister what they will be doing in four years' time. He's gonna come up on the platform, too. For the answer that the rapporteur says is there, I do not think there is a sufficient response to what these people should do and how it affects their economy. But that is just one question and one concern of several I have mentioned. So yes, we in the Left would really like to ensure that you can have mortgage lending throughout the country and that there is a level playing field regardless of whether you live in the extreme outermost area of Denmark or if you live in the middle of the big cities. But it has to be done in a way where it is not just easy patching solutions, but where it is proper in relation to the people who have their economy at stake.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162714	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, Mrs Heidi Bank. There are no more brief comments. Then it is the SF's rapporteur that is a new order from today. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222162736	Five times since 2014, SF has made proposals to secure loans in rural areas. Five times the SF has said that if there is no security around loans, we close and turn off parts of rural areas. If you can't live there, everything stops. Five times we have said that security, in terms of whether you can translate your house into rural areas, buy it or sell it, does not come naturally and that the state has to be part of the solution. It is, moreover, a principle that we have known from the Market Development Fund and from the Growth Fund, which has helped many Danish companies through state funds. We have proposed everything from a state to a special real credit institution with deposit guarantees from the state, five proposals, and now, 7-8 years later, there will finally be a solution that will hopefully be able to hold hands under the residential dealers in those parts of Denmark that are challenged. We are, of course, really happy about this, even though in most of the years it was hard to agree on how to solve it. If the bill is adopted, there will actually be government guaranteed loans if the square meter price is either DKK 8,000. or between DKr 8,000 and 10,000. in a series of defined postal codes. And, of course, loans should only be given to decent people who have the money in order and proper houses, not dilapidated rowers. I have noted that both the Association of Danish Small Islands and the Joint Council of Rural Regions are generally pleased that we have finally undertaken to solve the challenge. They are then less happy in Finance Denmark, which basically believes that there is no need for the scheme, because most people still believe that they are not creditworthy and therefore do not have the economy in order. I just think we hear repeatedly that people get no to a house on Lolland, but can borrow it triple if they are willing to move to North Zealand. I shall not hide the fact that I hope, of course, that the scheme will work and that the members of Finance Denmark will choose to play along for the sake of rural areas. For me, it is about being able to live and live in all parts of Denmark and that everyone has access to good, fair loans. I think it is very much an inequality agenda to secure lending opportunities in all parts of Denmark. It is simply not reasonable that some should resort to very expensive bank loans or mortgages or simply have to be spared the opportunity to buy or sell. And the consequences are easy to bear. If you divorce, become unemployed, get a new job, or are just old and need to move, then you're in trouble as the situation is today. And if we do nothing, we can be sure that marginalised areas will be even more marginalised tomorrow. If you cannot buy a house in an area that is already in need and where housing prices are falling, then no one is moving there and housing prices are falling even further, and we have created a real vicious circle. Then the grocery store closes and the school closes, and next time it's the demolition pool. In the SF we have a strong ambition that Denmark should be united, and therefore we need to solve the problem. The model here is one of the best offers I have seen or rather said, that is probably the first bid in addition to what the SF has proposed and I therefore have to report that the proposal has SF's support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163111	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is a brief comment, and that is from the rapporteur from the Left. Here you go, Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163116	Thank you. Does the SF rapporteur not recognise that this is a system that is expensive for the families who are going to take these loans? In addition to paying off a loan, like everyone else, in addition to the fact that there will be a contribution rate, there will also be a guarantee commission to be paid. This is a costly arrangement, and it is not only for those who give the loans they can still choose not to give the loans; it is still voluntary for them, because it is not the case that they are forced to do so. So does the rapporteur for the SF not at all recognise that this scheme is expensive for the families who have to pay for it here? And that's not 1 or 2 months. That's 30 years for most people.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163158	It is true that this scheme is a little more expensive, but it is very much cheaper than what you have to pay if you borrow from the Outdoor Bank or if the alternative is that you do not get a loan at all. This is calculated at places where you can't get a loan on normal terms. And I do not know whether what I hear the rapporteur of the Left suggests is that we should remove it from 1%. extra, which acts as some form of guarantee or as a way to cover any losses. Is that what the Left is proposing? Does the Left really suggest that we should work together to make the scheme cheaper? Because then we'll have to look at it. I also think it is important, given that there is a higher risk, that it also reflects that risk. In fact, this is also true in Norway, where you have the Husbanken. There are also 1 per cent of loans. I guess that's fair enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163259	Thank you. Is there any further comment? There is. Here you go, Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163302	It was actually a very interesting answer from the SF, because it means that the SF really fully recognises that the scheme that you stand and say is fantastic is a scheme that makes it more expensive for the borrowers. I just think it's nice to get that straightened out. I would like to say that this is how we ensure a coherent Denmark, indeed, as was mentioned earlier, is a problem that has taken up and is still taking up the Left, so we are always ready to enter into a dialogue and in discussions, but we have not been invited to anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163334	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163335	In any case, I can say that this is a problem which has occupied the Left for at least 7-8 years, without even a single solution coming out of it. Now we have a proposal for a solution, and it's a little more expensive, but it's not as expensive at all as the Outdoor Bank, and I think you should take that too when you look at this model. I simply do not hear any alternative proposals from the Left. There is no other proposal that we can discuss. The Left has not put forward a proposal for this in the course of the eight years, and that has not been done now. So what is it that the Left believes we should then offer the people who live in rural areas, if not this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163410	Thank you. There is another brief comment. Here you go, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163416	Thank you. I would like to sign up for the rapporteur's speech and then actually ask whether the way in which we have heard the Liberal Party handle this matter does not actually surprise the rapporteur. In other words, we have been listening together for years to good colleagues in the Rural Committee who have listened to and also dealt with the issues we are hearing about out there in rural areas and on the islands. The announcement made today by the Left has certainly surprised me. Does it not surprise the rapporteur too that the Left is playing out in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163452	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163454	I have to say, I'm so surprised. I just remember returning to the municipal election campaign when Mrs Ellen Trane Nørby had to get hold of the Minister for Business as soon as possible so that he could find a solution, for it was in the understanding paper that something had to happen. Now we have a solution; it is just not good enough. I really think that some of the people who live in rural areas are being left very much behind by not saying: okay, then we are trying this. We have other arrangements. We have the Market Development Fund and the Growth Fund, which have also provided some sort of state loan. So it's not like the model is unknown. Why is it that we should not do anything for the families who actually live in rural areas, but only for businesses? I'm having a really hard time understanding that. I think it is so important for the cohesion force in Denmark that we now have a proposal at last. It may not be perfect, but we are going to try it for three years. Now let's try it and see if it's used. I think it can make a difference, but I really don't know. I just think it's good that we finally stop talking and start solving the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163559	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163601	I don't disagree with you at all. One of the points that the Left is making here is an insecurity, given whether it is the right thing now, i.e. whether it is the right people, and whether the amounts are right and all these things. But isn't it just to get confirmation for Prince Canute here that the people who are allowed to get such a state-guaranteed loan are actually some who have been approved to buy housing? In other words, you have gone through their economy with a tightrope, just as you do with all sorts of other mortgages, and it is only at the moment that you are allowed to get a state-guaranteed loan.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163636	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163637	I can confirm that both the rules on credit rating and valuation still apply in relation to this proposal. And then we have to say: yes, it will be a little more expensive to borrow the money in this way, but the houses are also so much cheaper in these places, so it won't work out if you've gotten through the needle's eye where you've been rated. At any rate, I do not think that there is much justice when it comes to borrowing 8, 9, 10 per cent. On all sorts of other strange terms I don't really think that's fair. It is deeply unreasonable that this should be the case just because you live in a rural area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163714	Thank you to SF's rapporteur Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. There are no more brief comments. Then we should welcome the Radical Left rapporteur, and that is Mrs Kathrine Ollyday. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222163733	Thank you, President. In fact, at first I was really, really happy when I heard that there was a move that we should try to do something about this problem for the first time in history. But when I saw the concrete proposal in the second place, it started to put a little pressure on me as a radical rapporteur and, in fact, also on the entire radical group. The thing about state guaranteed loans is a grip that you only have to use when it is absolutely necessary. We may also miss seeing, like other rapporteurs, a proper empirical basis for what is really needed here. Can we actually obtain any knowledge other than anecdotal? I would like to add something to the anecdotes by saying that I myself personally have been in the situation that I could not borrow for a house which is in one of their postal numbers. So I recognise one hundred percent that there is a problem here. I would also like to credit the government for making a concrete proposal on how to resolve this problem. The problem has also arisen because we have a housing market and a housing policy which has been frozen for decades and a little bit of what to say about the dance, among other things. because the Left introduced the tax freeze and froze the ratings on the housing market, so we have actually seen a housing market that has so much pulled Denmark wrong. In fact, I would say that housing policy is the area which has taken Denmark the most wrong overall. To this we can add centralisation and the major structural reforms, the relocation of young people from country to city and the great democratic restructuring that we see. All these things also prevent a balance in Denmark, but it is housing policy that is primarily to blame. That is why we in the Radical Left would actually like to take part in looking at how we can improve the government's proposals on how to do this. I do not have any concrete proposals with me today, because I also fully recognise that it is complicated and extremely complicated. However, I think that in the work of the committee we should get on with it and do ourselves the service of making an effort and perhaps even holding a hearing, getting some experts in and getting some good thorough technical reviews. Instead of pointing fingers at each other, as to who didn't get it done in the last round, and who's trying to solve it now, let's try to see if it's not now, i.e. in this round, that we're actually getting this dream that we all have to solve this problem. And could we not have a better empirical basis for what kind of problem we really have to solve? It would certainly help radical self-understanding if we were to stand on a strong base of knowledge. As far as the proposal is concerned, I must say with a bleeding heart and as someone who has once been denied a loan, that unfortunately I cannot support it here, but I would like to help look at how we can succeed in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164100	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are a few brief comments. First, here you go, sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164106	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I don't really know where to start, but it's really very interesting about the empiri thing. We've had hearings as late as then and now I have to think back a year and a half, and then you ask Finance Denmark if they have any statistics on this, and they have to know how many refusals have been made. Oh, they don't have that right, because they keep statistics on their commitments, but not on the refusals. That's very convenient, because then they can say: We're lending all over the place there you can see we're doing it all over the place. It is fun to see that there have been house traders, in many places not with mortgages, but you do not see that there have been some refusals of mortgages. I don't believe that, no matter how much you try to create some empire here, you can get anything at all. Leave it alone. I think it might be interesting to hear from the rapporteur: how big should the problem be? Are we talking two or ten or 100 or 1,000 people? How many people have to be before Radicals think it's interesting to be involved in this? Isn't it just good if there are ten people who can't get a loan today but who can get it in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164213	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164215	Absolutely appreciative. So, the rapporteur himself starts by saying that the empire cannot be obtained, and the rapporteur then asks how many people have to be squeezed by this, and that is exactly what: we do not know how many people are squeezed by this. I would also like to say that a fundamental problem for me is that it is very convenient for Finance Denmark to be unable to provide the documentation; the rapporteur is quite right in that respect. However, I also see a tiny bit in my mind that, when you start talking about state-guaranteed loans, there is a danger that we will give the banks a free bath ticket to put this aid directly in the house price. We have seen this before, for example. has tried to help young people enter the housing market by making repayment-free loans. I remember where I was that day when it happened, and although I am a linguistic student, I could figure out that what would go completely into house prices and make them explode. This was about something about the start of the financial crisis in 2008, also as the United States is starting to subsidise and grant loans to people who really do not have credit ratings. So we just have to be extremely careful here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164315	Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164316	I'm thinking it's an important thing in relation to that discussion to note that this is about square meters of 8,000 kr. and not higher. Well, they can be a little taller, that is, 10,000 kroner, but not higher. So if it's supposed to be so well that prices could rise to something higher, well, they're just outside this frame. So that problem has, in fact, already been solved in that way. My question may actually be: what can go wrong with this by doing that attempt? It's three years, and there are some who can get into it, and then you can see how it's worked. What could go wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164349	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164350	It's not just three years. Because if somebody actually gets this loan, then we're gonna have to give it a loan for 30 years. And I can also have my doubts as to whether so many loans have been granted after three years that we have a real empirical basis that we may be trying to give ourselves with this proposal. So, again, I would like to say that I really, really want to do something positive about this, and that is why I think we should do our best in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164418	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Here you go, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164424	I agree that we need to make a great deal of the committee work on this draft law very much in agreement. We also have some problematic things we would like to travel. But I have to ask the rapporteur, just as I actually asked the rapporteur of the Left, and also in the light of the answers given by the rapporteur to Mr Gundelach. Lennart Damsbo, whether it is the whole idea of state-guaranteed loans, is really causing it to fight in the radical parliamentary group, or how and how, or whether, in this context, it is completely written off in relation to the fact that so far the problem has not been solved. In the past, we have regulated a little in terms of time and availability and such things, and this has apparently not helped. But is it the whole idea of a state guarantee in relation to loans that are mad here?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164524	If it's easier to say, sir. Andersen, you could also call it the Socialist rapporteur. His name is sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, but Mr. Andersen would be fine, too. Here you go to the radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164534	It was a little service information. I would say that, unlike the Enhedslisten, in the Radical Left we have it tight with state banks and also with state-guaranteed loans. I don't want it to be a secret. But that may be necessary in situations where there are no other options. That is why I am not going to write it off or pour it down the board in advance, which is why I am also open to us to try to see if we can find a way through this proposal so that we can eat it in the radical group as well. I would also like to say that in the near future we will also be seeing interest rates on the housing market rising, and we will also see that we have a housing agreement that needs to be implemented. There will be some new assessments, and as soon as they kick through seriously here in 2024 we imagine that it will fall in prices in rural areas, since the housing out there will be assessed lower than they are today. So you can imagine that prices will also regulate that way around. So there are several different elements that argue that we might just breathe once.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164636	Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164638	Yeah, if there's time to breathe, you could say. Now, then, the government has played out with an attempt to find a solution. After all, I hear the answer that in principle, at least, the idea of using a State guarantee for this kind of loan is not rejected. I fully agree that the housing market is really uncontrollable and that a great many elements are involved, but the idea of going further along this path is not rejected. What is it if you don't do what you imagine of alternatives if you don't want to use this option?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164724	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164725	Well, we'd like to use this opportunity, because I actually don't really see what else we're supposed to offer, which is safer or which is fiscally more stable than this. There is just something quite fundamental about going in and through rules and by state means being so intrusive in the fiscal • what to say about reality. Maybe my time has run out now.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164754	There were two seconds. Here you go to Mrs Heidi Bank, who is next to have a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164759	Thank you for that and thank you very much to Radicals for the rapporteur's speech. I think it is really positive that there are more of us who want to go very carefully to this area, because that is really what I hear from Radicale's rapporteur. That is because there is real concern, and I hope the rapporteur can confirm that. At the same time as we want to do something good because I think we all agree on that; we want to do it well and we want to make it easier in rural areas; then there is the matter of whether this can also have a backweight, whether it can hit a wrong one, because it is precisely, as the rapporteur also says, 30-year loans. So much support for us getting deeper into this. We can do hearings and whatever it needs to be. We in the Left would very much like to take part in this in order to have more clarity about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164844	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164844-2	That sounds very good, and I would also like to thank the rapporteur for her speech today. I think it's interesting. I also find it interesting that we have to deal with the fact that, although this model, which the government is bringing in, is becoming a little more expensive, it is still a matter for the SF's rapporteur to say that it is not as expensive as taking up a bank loan. However, bank loans up against mortgages also reflect the reality that there is only a greater risk because the turnover in the housing market is lower in certain postal numbers. And the question is just how much we, as a state, have to intervene in that market logic and how much we are going to push.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164923	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The rapporteur is free to drink off. We can't say you're here. Then the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has been prepared. Here you go to the rapporteur, sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222164949	Thank you. Let me state straight away that the Enhedslisten, if anyone is in doubt, supports the bill. One might almost say that it is from a view that at last something is finally happening in this area. For years the inbox has been filled with requests from people who have tried to borrow for a residence in a rural area, but who have been refused with the message that if they just moved 500 m along the way to another postcode or to somewhere else in the country, they could borrow everything they wanted. That problem has not always, to put it mildly, been recognised by the financial sector, but at some point we had the demands made available to us and to lay times and things like this after a very comprehensive analysis, which was also made. So one cannot say that one has not been responsive, but it has certainly been a tough process and it has not led to anything. The changes in time and availability have not led to a solution to this problem. As a matter of principle, we have been advocating over the years that a state bank should be set up to simply regulate this market and put right where the market simply does not exist and, in this situation, we have to see that there is a market which we do not think is suitable. If people who are financially well consolidated and so on cannot be allowed to borrow because it is a certain area of the country, while they could easily borrow it triple if it was somewhere else in the country, then it has to be said that the market is not working. In fact, we think it is right for the state to seek to secure itself in this proposed model 90-10, as it is called, and I can also see from the consultation answers that it is being criticised by Finance Denmark, which believes that they already bear the risk at the first 60%. of the loan so that they think it is an unnecessary burden imposed on the financial institutions. One might say that there is also an incentive for there to be a really good rating of those who are looking for a loan for housing in such a rural area, and one should of course bear in mind that all communication to the consumer already lies with borrowers in fact at the financial institution. So I think it is very reasonable that you then have some sort of guarantee that they have the hand on the hob, as Finance Denmark itself writes, to ensure that it goes properly. I would say that we are rather saddened by the restriction that has been imposed that, for example, we should not be allowed to do so. Commercial property is not in play here. This has also been part of the debate over all the years, and we think it is a pity that they are not included, and we will of course take that up in committee, but it is not something that makes us deviate from voting in favour of this bill, but we just think it is a pity, and we will of course ask a few questions about why damn commercial property is not included. Then we actually think that the system seems, I do not know whether one can say unnecessarily complicated, but it seems really complicated. We recognise the efforts made to ensure that it is adopted, quite clearly, and I believe that part of the complexity that has arisen comes from it too, but if you look at the rules on, for example, in one situation or another of this state guarantee to third parties or to other creditors and set-off in this respect, and I shall give you, I shall give you, then you will be a little nervous about controlling this. When I look down over Section 8 of Chapter 1 I have written them down here • § 12 of Chapter 5 and § 14 of Chapter 8, I also find it difficult to keep up, I have to say. Explain it to someone like me who is not well versed in terms and taljonglering in the financial sector in the whole area of residential trade and things like that. I am a little worried about control in this regard, and that is why it calls for some kind of technical review, which can then be hoped to make you wiser. Otherwise, you have to rely on the experts who have drafted the bill and so on. etc. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, But that should not change the fact that, on the whole, we think it is a good legislative proposal and that it solves a problem that we have been talking about for many years to put it plainly. Now there has been a proposal for a solution to the problem, and this is the first time that a proposal has been put forward for a solution, and this is moving in the direction that Enhedslisten has been fighting for all along.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222165501	Thank you, Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Henning Hylllested. There are no brief comments. And then we should welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222165510	Thank you very much. The proposal here proposes that a State guarantee be introduced on part of the loan for owner-occupied housing, which has either a commercial price of less than DKr 8 000. per or has a trade price between DKK 8,000 and 10,000. per square metres and is in one of the postal numbers listed in Annex 1 to the bill. It is proposed that the scheme should last for three years and enter into force on 1 July 2022. However, even if the scheme is to last for only three years, initially, the consequence of the law is potentially 30 years into the future. At the same time, it is an incredibly expensive and incredibly complex model. I can be concerned if this is going to come into force on 1 July 2022, if we have even had time to look at the systems that are going to work on this and if we can achieve it, when we now know the extent of how long it can take to set up IT systems. After all, we also recognise that it is good to support rural areas. We're gonna do that ourselves. And we also believe that growth in these is important. But first of all, we believe that it is important to remember that Danish money and mortgage institutions are already borrowing money for housing throughout the country. That is why we do not believe that a State guarantee is needed either. In addition, we must remember why some citizens are being refused today. This is due, among other things, to: an insufficient economy of the borrower. Fortunately, we will not be debating this with this proposal, but I am just saying that this is one of the main reasons why we are being refused, including in rural areas. It is important for both consumers and the institutions that we stick to this sound principle of having an adequate economy and that it is the free market forces that have to work in this market and regulate this market. We are therefore faced with an expensive, complex and somewhat incalculable scheme which, according to Finance Denmark at least, will be used to a very small extent. As the proposal stands at the moment, we cannot support it, but we will look forward to a committee reading and will also look forward to being invited over to the Minister and having a debate on whether it should be this model or whether, if we do not now lock ourselves onto a state guarantee, we can find some other solutions that will enable us to help out in peripheral areas, because we would be delighted to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222165739	Thanks for the speech. There are a few brief comments. The first person I would like to give the floor to is Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222165744	That was clear speech by the Conservative rapporteur: zero State guarantee that is not the solution. I thought that was nice, because then you know it, and then you can relate to it. Does this mean, at the same time, that we do not recognise that there is a problem or that we consider the problem to be so minimal that it would be wrong to start proposing solutions? Or do we have alternative solutions to the problem that we at least in the Enhedslisten believe there are? And there we are quite in agreement with the Rural Council and the Association of Danish Small Islands, etc. etc. So there's a problem? And how is it to be solved if you absolutely don't?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222165824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222165824-2	Thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested for the question. You and I have been on trips with the Rural and Islands Committee together, and we have all seen that there is a problem. After all, we have all seen that there are challenges around the countryside, and I also think that our mailboxes have been filled with it. And where Mr. Henning Hyllested and I are elected, we have also acknowledged this. I just don't believe that state-guaranteed loans are the answer to this. I believe much more in investment, and now there has been mention of infrastructure by the Left, and I am very concerned about this, but that is why investments in local areas can do much more. We can see that, if we look at it down at Fehmarn, then we can see how house prices have risen down there and, above all, rental prices have risen. And it seems that as soon as you do something, there will be a growth, however, I recognise that we cannot build bridges to Germany all over the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222165924	Sir. Henning Hylllested, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222165925	No, it will be, for example. Hard to do anything in Tønder, which is mentioned as one of the zip code areas that comes under this scheme. But, of course, I share a desire to develop around us... we may not be able to develop all the outermost regions at once. So something must happen if we do not still have to keep making inquiries in the inbox: here I am, and I am at the muffin financially; I can easily borrow money if I just move somewhere else, but here I cannot. Well, this is a bid... a guarantee, yes. What's the offer if we can't use a state guarantee?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170006-2	I simply do not have that offer at this stage, but it is one of the opportunities I look forward to coming over to the Minister and discussing with him: what can we do? We really want to help find a solution. I just don't look into a solution with a state guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170021	The next one to which I would like to give the floor is Mr Spencer. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170026	Thank you. I am therefore pleased that the rapporteur recognises that there is a problem. I would then like to ask what it is that makes the rapporteur so keen that there should be no State guarantee in relation to the loan. What can go wrong with the state guarantee? There are, of course, a number of enclosures built into this scheme, it can be said, of the risk in relation to a worst case scenario; now I do not remember whether it is 21 million. kr., we're talking about if it goes crazy about getting a lot of loans out. But what can actually go wrong here, and why is it that the state guarantee can go wrong? For those who have to buy must be approved; so the economy is in order. It is done on normal mortgage terms and the value at which loans can be obtained is the commercial value at the time of sale. So there's nothing that can run away from it. So where is it that the rapporteur is going wrong in relation to the state guarantee?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170123	Sir. Niels Flemming Hansen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170125	But where things go wrong in relation to the state guarantee, we are going in and affecting the free market forces that exist in the housing market or in the property market in general, and I certainly do not think we have any interest in that either, Mr President. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen or myself.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170140	Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170142	Well, then, the rapporteur will just clarify that a little more. Let's say that a house located on Lolland has been on sale for a very long time, and now there is finally someone who can buy it because the economy is in order and who can also get it at the right price, so that he doesn't have to pay an overpriced price to someone with mortgage letters or bank loans or anything else; so that the person can actually get a mortgage, just like all sorts of other people who live in Vejle and all sorts of places can get. How, then, can it distort the market? For the house is not sold; instead it would have to be demolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170214	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170215	Even if you live in Lolland, it must be so that if you have a house that has a price, you can come and buy it. It's really, really fine. Then there are families who choose to say: Well, we get this state guarantee put in. Then they have the house for 3 years, and then this law is repealed again... it disappears... and then the family stands there and has an uncertain economy. That's not gonna work. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen It goes on).
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170244	That is not how we are discussing this in the Parliamentary Chamber. Niels Flemming Hansen No!). Someone else has a brief comment to make. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170255	Well, I would like to ask whether the Conservative People's Party is completely opposed to the state playing a role in helping people in rural areas to obtain loans for the housing they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170313	It's a difficult question for me to answer here. I would certainly like to know what other options there are if the state is to go into it and make a bid for it. We are just not going in and starting to compensate for it with the model that we have for Danish mortgage financing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170330	Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt, SF, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170333	I still think it's pretty amazing that you don't want this; you don't have any ideas about what it can be; you don't actually know quite whether the state can play a role or not. It will be extremely difficult to find a solution with the Conservative People's Party, I think, here. In fact, I find it hard to understand that Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, who was, but you can. When it comes to companies, there is no limit to what the Conservative People's Party will vote on if the state wants to help them, but when it comes to ordinary homeowners, you leave them behind. I don't think that's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170412	Conservative rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170414	But does Mrs Karina Lorentzen know what? I understand that Mrs Karina Lorentzen cannot understand that. And that's because we haven't been invited to negotiations, so we haven't played ping pong with the minister and with the ministry about what's really possible for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170429	Thank you, sir. Niels Flemming Hansen. There are no more brief comments. Then it is DF's rapporteur that we should welcome. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker. It's five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170444	Thank you. I mean, if they all just knew how great it is to live out there, where I live, and where some of the rapporteurs also live, then I think there were many more people who would go to rural areas. Unfortunately, however, there are various obstacles. One of the obstacles is, of course, jobs, education and so on. Another obstacle, which we have talked a great deal about over the past many years, is precisely this one with borrowing opportunities. The proposal here is part of the government's proposal, which came a few months after we in the Danish People's Party had come up with our proposal, where we also had this very thing about what we do about the challenge of borrowing money. Because we will start by stating that borrowing money in the bank is no human right, we just have to remember that. But what bothers us is that there are so many people who are refused to borrow money, even if they have a good economy. Several rapporteurs have mentioned this. I have also traveled the country thinly over the ages with Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen and Mr. Henning Hyllested, where we have been enriched with many good examples from there, which were not about the individual citizen's economy, one which was about that, no, you cannot get loans to this house for 1 million. kr., but if you move 10 km further, we can lend you to a house of 3 million. kr. It had nothing to do with the citizens' economy. That is what we want to do, that is to say, to guarantee lending opportunities for those who have the money. They must, of course, be rated, as the proposal proposes; we will then guarantee loan opportunities for those who have the money, so that is what they are assessed on, and not the external factors, that is, where the house is located. We think this is really, really important. This will, of course, make it easier for people to settle in a rural area, and it is wonderful. I can also say that I understand the concerns that have come from the other bourgeois parties, including from the Radicals. And in the Danish People's Party, we've also had concerns about whether this will cause black spots on the map. Because we don't want a map where we say that okay, you live out there, where you can't borrow money, and where you have to go through a state guarantee. It's sad that it's like that. So that has also been part of our concerns. However, we need to make an overall effort in the rural area, where borrowing money must also be part of it. So I just can't think about what if this is gonna be a huge success? So, quite frankly, what if it turns out that there is actually going to be a boom in mortgage payments and that it is people who are creditworthy and that more people are moving to rural areas? That would be amazing. It would be fantastic if, with this proposal, we could help to ensure that even more people moved to rural areas. I would also like to say that we in the Danish People's Party, as other rapporteurs have said, are in fact also sorry that the Minister has not invited us either, precisely because in the Rural Committee there is a tradition that we talk about things together, and we are a committee that generally agrees on most things. That is why we also thought that it would be very good style if we were invited over by the Minister. We also have things in the proposal that we would like to hear more about, because it is clear that when we are dealing with the economy and when it is for taxpayers' money, we must also ensure that it is done properly. We therefore hope that the Minister will reach out to dialogue with all of us in the individual parties. There is a basis for us to look into it, and we in the Danish People's Party are in favour of it. And then we look forward to the other discussion in committee and also look forward to having some discussions with the Minister about this, so that we can land it quite sharply and quite rightly for the benefit of those living in rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170907	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech to Mrs Hjermind Dencker there are no brief remarks. Then we welcome the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party and that is Mrs Mette Thiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222170924	When I talk about legislative proposals that we have in the Rural and Islands Committee, I usually make a lot of sense of the lyrical, because there is something very special about the country and about our rural areas. I usually say that this is where it is a little darker at night and where you can hear the birds sing a little more clearly. In New Citizens we want to help bind Denmark better together, and I can understand the frustration of those who find it difficult to borrow when they want to settle on our really lovely islands and in our rural areas. But that doesn't mean we can back this solution with state-guaranteed loans. In New Citizens we want to make it easier and cheaper to be a Dane. We want to ensure that politicians decide much less and that the Danes decide much more for themselves, also over more of their own money, and that we lower taxes in general, so that the Danes have more between their hands, more of their own money. Then we must ensure an infrastructure that binds Denmark properly together so that we can get to and from the towns where there is a little darker in the evening and where the birds sing a little more clearly. We also need to ensure that you can buy the car as a normal Danish family. This means, of course, that we must ensure that we remove the registration tax, lower the petrol tax, lower the electricity tax and so on, so that the Danes can buy it or the cars that are best suited to their families. And then, of course, we also have to set schools and day offers free and let the money follow the individual child, so that it is precisely possible that the small local offers can also flourish to a much greater extent than if it is run by the municipality. All in all, we in New Citizens support rural areas, but it will not be through a proposal like this, of course, that we cannot support.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222171129	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no brief comments. And since I do not see any more rapporteurs in the Chamber immediately, I should like to welcome the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222171141	I will start where Mrs. Mette Hjermind Dencker ended. Try to imagine: What if this was actually the solution that could reverse the negative development? What if decades of centralisation could be reversed and rural life could be created so that the houses that are standing and falling and which cannot be sold were given new residents, could be painted windows, could be restored, and that there could be a basis for a small merchant? What if a school could come back? This bill is very much borne by political dreams and visions. It's carried by the picture of the young couple. He's a carpenter, she's a nurse. They are rated and they have a good economy, but they get no credit for the housing, which is a little far from the main road. They could well borrow for a more expensive home if they bought it inside the big town in the municipality; but out here, where just as it was said, it is dark when you go to bed, and where the birds chirp extra loud, they got no. Our aim with this bill is for the government to be able to get the parts of the housing market in the outermost regions frozen; that we can thaw that part of the housing market up with a state guarantee as an aid, because by not having any bids, by not trading here, will be further depopulation, further centralisation, more deserted areas, decayed houses that lack paint in the windowsills. It must never be the case in Denmark that it is your zip code that determines whether you can borrow for a dwelling, and I think that we are experiencing too much of this today. We have heard many colleagues tell about their travels around the country, where they have met people who have found it difficult to borrow for a home. I have received a number of inquiries from people myself. And for me, it's not really important whether there's 1,000 or 10,000 or 100,000 who have trouble getting this loan; for every new home that can be sold but that won't be today, can contribute to renewed hope of life in our rural areas, about activity, about children playing in the garden, about the springs of trampolines that are buckled, and then it's a success. What if we could get there with this proposal? It is a desire to have a Denmark that is in better balance. Of course, I also need a little time to review the details of the bill, but I would like to accept the parties' wish to meet on this which is actually interested in making this solution come into being. I am thinking of the parties that have indicated that this could be a way to go if we find the right cuts, the right balances • Radical Left, I also heard the Left. I would like to invite those parties today to set up a political meeting. We will also do everything possible in the committee with technical reviews, hearings. Let us meet in the Ministry of Business and talk about what concerns are based on, which makes it difficult to say yes today, because I cannot follow the concerns all the way. In fact, I feel that this proposal is very well fenced in, and I will then take a little time to review it for colleagues in this Chamber and for those who are listening. It is clear that if you can get a loan on normal terms, you shouldn't use a State guarantee, then it's irrelevant both for the bank and for the young couple. But if you have order in the economy and the bank says no anyway, because this property is on the wrong postal code or is in the wrong place... call it what you want... then he can have the state guarantee as a hand to buy a home. The loans will, of course, be subject to certain conditions and obligations, and it is to ensure that no risks are taken when we, as a community and a treasury, go in and place our muscles and strength behind these loans. And, of course, it is also to protect consumers from being overly indebted. Therefore, the entire draft law is also based on a premise that the credit rating of the borrowers must be assessed according to normal rules before the State can go in and provide a guarantee. It is also essential that the loan contracts guaranteed by the State be concluded on the basis of a sound valuation of the property's value, and therefore, of course, all properties must be valued in accordance with the applicable rules. With the bill, we ensure that all creditors who today grant loans for the purchase of residential properties in Denmark now also have the opportunity to offer consumers a mortgage with a state guarantee on the outermost part. It is optional for each creditor to offer the loans guaranteed by the State. And in relation to the State guarantee, we propose that Financial Stability guarantees 90 per cent. of the loan, which is in the range between 60 and 90 per cent. of the value of the property. In this way, we help to ensure that the creditors also have their hands on the hot plate for the remaining 10%. I believe that we are dealing here with responsible and sensible credit, both for the sake, of course, of institutions and financial stability, which has also been mentioned, but also for the sake of the state, which is putting money at risk, and ultimately for consumers. Then the plan is that the scheme should be financed by a guarantee commission payable by borrowers and by institutions. The State takes a risk from the institutions by guaranteeing part of the loan, and so we propose that the real estate creditors, like the intermediary loans, pay a small guarantee commission to the State of an average of 1.25%, i.e. 1.25%. of the guaranteed amount. The scheme is not intended to replace loans on general terms which would have been granted without the possibility of a State guarantee, and therefore it is also good for the success of the scheme to pay, as a consumer taking up the loans, for the use of the scheme. We propose to pay a small guarantee commission of 1%. of the guaranteed amount. If you borrow 1 million... kr. to buy a house for, it equals 225 kroner. a month. And as you withdraw and the loan becomes smaller, and thus the amount guaranteed will be reduced, so will the 225 DKK. to a lower amount. Of course, this payment reflects the fact that we also have to take account of the fact that there may be more risky loans. So this means that, overall, the State receives a guarantee commission of 2.25%, i.e. 1.25%. plus 1%. of the guaranteed amount and it covers, on the one hand, the risk assumed by the State from the institutions and, on the other hand, the slightly higher risk of individual loans. So in this way, the model here supports the lending in rural areas, while at the same time we have complete control of the fact that there is a responsible economy in the scheme. I have always seen that we in the Rural Committee have been sitting on the committee myself, and I even think I have had the honorable job of being vice-chairman of it once in my very early parliamentary career saw each other across the party, almost as a party. We fought for rural areas. I have also experienced that we have done in terms of creating life, and in terms of how we could get more loans going, selling more houses. That's why I get a little bit awkward or worried that when it gets concrete when it gets crunch time, as it's called in modern Danish, we start to stagger a bit across the bias. I hope this reflects the fact that we together want to become wiser and be insured and get answers to a lot of questions. At any rate, I am ready, along with all the talented people who sit over there in the hatch and in the ministry, to help answer everything. Can we then provide a complete empirical basis for how many refusals are given? This is going to be an impossible task, because statistics like this are not being carried out. If that's what decides whether you can join or not, then you look into a dead end. But we can help those who have problems; the ones we meet; the ones the members of the committee have met; the ones I have met; those who have written to us and filled our mailboxes with examples we can help. It is not certain that this is a scheme for many hundreds of thousands of Danes, but it may be that it is the scheme that makes the today negative spiral a positive development, where the sale of properties makes it easier to sell the next house and where the next house and the next house again provide the basis for that actually well away can be a merchant in the small town. This is the positive spiral we want to get going. In fact, it would be desirable for this scheme to win itself to death, in the sense that it had the frozen housing market in parts of Denmark thawed up, so it ran all by itself without the need for a state guarantee. Today we are just not there in many parts of our lovely country, that is, out there, where it is dark when you turn off the lights and where the birds chirp extra loudly. So I look forward very much to the work of the committee. Before that, I would like to invite those of the parties who have expressed an interest in finding a solution within the framework of this state guarantee to a meeting of the Ministry of Industry, so that we can get to the bottom of the issues. I may just have to say to those who have asked the traders, that is, the small baker, the small merchant, the butcher, who is closed and where you want the property to house a new business: it is true that it is not part of this scheme in relation to the mortgage model, but at the same time we have from the government, together with the Growth Fund, lowered the limit on when we can use our growth guarantees, so that also loans below 1 million. kr. It can be considered there, and it is a helping hand directly to the very small traders, of whom we see many in our outermost regions, and which, indeed, if these loans are granted, will be a positive enrichment in terms of increasing the possibility of resale of the house, the possibility of activity and the possibility of doing some business in our outermost regions. So with these comments I do not think I should say much more dangerously than I look forward to always good and constructive committee work with the Rural Committee. I look forward to the further dialogue and will offer to start it up with the rapporteurs quickly thereafter.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222172313	Thank you to the Minister for the speech. There are a few brief comments. First of all, I would like to give the floor to the rapporteur of the Left and that is Mrs Heidi Bank. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222172319	Thank you for that, and thank you for inviting us, of course. This is a difficult area and we recognise that, but there are just a lot of issues and issues in the legislative proposal and there are great concerns about it. I also think it was a good thing that it came up here again, that what we are talking about is families who have approved their economy, and that is why it is also important that the Minister may make some comments on the fact that this is, of course, about the mortgage, that is to say the property you want to buy, also being part of an assessment when you go in and assess, and that the whole part that is about securing, for example. mobile coverage, ensuring that that part of our infrastructure works, therefore also has an impact on what makes it attractive and makes it possible to borrow in these areas under normal conditions without a State guarantee. It has something to do with the transferability of property, which is one of the things the mortgage banks are obliged to look into. So I hope the Minister will take that with him. Then I've got a lot more to play with, but we'll have to take that later.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222172425	Thank you. Here you go, Minister of Business.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222172430	I would like to start by signing for this, because I also take the view that the Left does not say that because it is a state guarantee, it cannot be seen whether that solution can be achieved. I believe that this is a prerequisite for further dialogue on this solution. Then, both in committee and elsewhere, we can have good debates on how to achieve a better balance between Denmark and Denmark as a result of the relocation of education, better equalisation system, investment in infrastructure. All the various measures that the government has also helped to put into the sea, we are very happy to discuss, but here it is, of course, about how we will have a state guarantee as a model, which is also safe enough for the Left. It is safe enough for me, because I think it would help with what it has to do, and financially it is fenced completely securely and responsibly inside. The same creditworthiness assessment must be made on the customer, and one can only obtain a State guarantee if one is also creditworthy, and there are all these different things put into what I actually think is well described. And I would also like to say quite briefly that we have had a good dialogue with the financial sector, also about making cuts that make it more likely to be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222172542	Thank you. I would like to ask and urge you to remember to press on if you have a brief comment, because then it will be easier for technology, not for me, but for technology. Here you go, Mrs. Heidi Bank.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222172555	I'm sorry, President. It is not the case that it is our cup of tea with a state guarantee, I have to be honest with you. After all, we are willing to try to go in and look at how to solve the challenges for the people who are out there and what sort of handles to use, but it has to be seen in a context. So I think I would just like to remind you of the question I raised in connection with my rapporteur's speech: what about the families who, after four years, have to sell a property if the scheme has ended after three years? What has been done with regard to how they might stand perhaps a little tied up in a property that has a mortgage that is considered difficult to implement?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222172637	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222172638	I will just sign it again, because I think that I also hear a softening in relation to the rapporteur's speech and the position of the Left, and it is not an attempt to push anything down on anyone, because I hear that, and it may be that it is just I who hear it, but it is positive that there is a room for discussing with the Left how we can make the state guarantee here a reality. And then none of us has yet decided what will happen after the three-year term of this scheme, for example. to be extended. Has it given so much activity out there that resale opportunities have improved so that it is not a problem to sell its property without the possibility that the new buyer can buy it with a State guarantee? We will have to decide on that when we approach that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222172717	Thank you. The next person I would like to give the floor to is also the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222172723	Thank you and thank the Minister for the speech. Yes, we have been sitting on the Rural Committee for many years, and I can say that I have been sitting there from the start and that I have been sitting there for ten years. One of the things that has made me most concerned about the proposal we are debating here today is, in fact, whether there is a danger that it will have a negative effect on the villages, in other words that there will be black spots on the map. I live in a village myself, and if that zip number gets some kind of stamp and it is rumored in the village that there are now so many inhabitants and so many people who have been given a state guarantee, then I would actually be nervous if you would dare to invest, renovate the other homes in the city, with a nervousness about the fact that you have actually stamped the village in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222172829	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222172830	I do not share that concern, because in today's well-functioning village housing is being sold under normal loan conditions, and resale opportunities are sensible. What I see here is more the housing that may be a little outside the village, which is a little far from the main road, the places where there is no sale today, because resale opportunities are limited or difficult, and where perhaps the mortgage and bank would rather be looked at the house inside the village. So I'm not so worried that this is going to be a negative stamp, because where the state guarantee is going to be used is where you wouldn't get that housing purchased under normal loan conditions. So that means that it is in areas where property is not being sold to a sufficient degree today and where sales and sales are increasingly and perhaps a third sale will have a positive effect on resale opportunities, on the economic base of the small local area and thus the possibility of selling again afterwards. That is the wish behind the proposal here, in other words to create a positive spiral where it is negative today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222172942	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222172944	Thank you. I hope that the Minister is right, that is to say that it will give a positive spiral. I am most worried that it is the opposite, i.e. that it will be a negative spiral, and these are indeed the concerns that I can be honest in saying that I have expressed in different contexts. Can the Minister say anything about whether you have done that in the Ministry, you must have done some calculations about how many people you expect will benefit from this model?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222173015	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222173016	First of all, I would like to say that I believe that we have both been in the Rural Committee for 10 years, at least since 2011, and that we have therefore followed each other's rural policy careers. If I just have to say something about the black spots, to finish it, whether there will be black spots, whether there will be such stamps, I can say that the scheme is actually intended to apply throughout the country, but that you saw in some selected areas at a slightly higher square meter price can be part of the scheme. So I'm not so worried it gives these black spots. It's hard to make an exact estimate of how many people are going to use this scheme. But all the time that there is a guarantee commission from both the Institute and from the person who has to take the loan home as a citizen, I am not worried about the economy in it, and therefore it is also difficult to say exactly whether it will be 100, whether it will be 200, whether it will be 1,000. I can't answer that, because we don't know. What has always been the problem in this debate is that statistics have been deficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222173110	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kathrine Ollldag from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222173114	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for the speech. I can assure you that this is not crunchtime, but the government and the minister themselves have put forward the idea that we have a course of action here starting with a bill, so there will be some kind of point of no return and a dramatic climax at a much later date. Let's just have a look at it in all remembrance. But as the minister talks about children's feet on trampolines and happy voices in the village school, etc., I stay here and I can't help it, now I finally have the Minister of Business with me, and that happens so rarely just have to make a small cross. I am also rapporteur for foreigners, and it is the case that in the municipality of Ringkøbing-Skjern, where there are 57 000 inhabitants, there are 6 000 inhabitants who live there and fill the village schools and dance on the trampolines that come from Eastern European countries. They work in the production companies, and the wives may work as sosus or educators, and the children fill up these village schools. Could it not be imagined that at some point the government is going into a premise that we are separating business and foreign policy and even making business policy a rural policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222173224	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222173225	I do not see much foreign policy in the draft law that has been put on the table today, at least. However, I see a great deal of confusion between rural policy and business policy in the legislative proposal that is here, and that is why, although it is at the heart of business policy to talk about our Danish mortgage and our entire financial sector, I am actually very happy that we are dealing with it in a rural context. I think that is a good thing. I do not think, however, that I will go into a further analysis of the confusion between business policy and foreign policy, because I do not think that is actually in this proposal. Then I shall certainly have read it significantly differently than Mrs Kathrine Olly has done. But it's clear that when I talk it up a little picturesque about these trampolines that squeak, and the birds that sing, that's because that's where we are, that's the focus this bill has. It is not, of course, on the stone bridge, but it is a proposal which must clearly provide assistance in rural areas, aid which has been lacking for many, many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222173329	Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222173331	Yes, and I certainly haven't expressed anything else. So I'm totally in on the ground line. But let me ask you a question within the framework. If we were to put this proposal into practice, where does the Minister see in a worst case scenario that this would cost if we were to say it just abolishes this scheme in three years' time because it really does not have an effect or an impact? What kind of bill do we look into?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222173356	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222173357	That is precisely where I think the proposal is well-suited because, for the amount of the state's guarantee, we are asking the Foundation to contribute a guarantee commission of 1.25%, and the citizen or couple in question, who want to have the help of the state to buy their property out here in rural areas, is 1%. So the guarantee commission means this can't be a big bill. And I think we just have to keep each other in mind that it isn't beach roads and everything else that is being sold here. But that is quite modest amounts for housing in these parts of the country. So it is a very, very limited bill that may be involved and we will try to quantify it further, perhaps even in writing, so that we can also have it sent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222173443	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Business. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Rural and Islands Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222173458	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Minister for Business. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Rural and Islands. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222173523	Thank you to the proposers for focusing on an important agenda. It is important that we keep an eye on the development of the number of permits given to buy a holiday home in Denmark. It is only natural that it is the Danes who have priority to enjoy the Danish nature and the Danish local environment rather than foreign purchasers. The Social Democratic Party, as the authors will know, was also part of the majority behind the report on B 19, of which this proposal is a partial re-submission. I will come back to that. Let me begin by outlining the rules on when foreigners can buy a holiday home in Denmark. It is the case that if you are currently resident in Denmark, you should not be allowed to buy a holiday home. If you live in another country but have previously resided in Denmark for a total of at least five years, you do not need permission either. On the other hand, if you have neither lived here in the past nor have it now, you need a permit if you want to buy a holiday home in Denmark. The authorization presupposes that you have a special link with Denmark. Here you look at the extent of previous stays in Denmark and whether there is a family, linguistic or cultural connection with Denmark. If you have such a special connection with the country, you can therefore be allowed to buy a holiday home in Denmark. The fact that Denmark can have a special arrangement for the purchase of a holiday home by foreigners, despite the EU rules on free movement, is due to the so-called summer house protocol, so the starting point is in fact another place: freedom of movement, that is to say, that it can be seen as a restriction on free movement if you cannot have the opportunity to buy a holiday home in another country. The Holiday House Protocol ensures that we in Denmark can maintain the system of residence or authorisation claims, which was in force on 1 November 1993, when the Maastricht Treaty came into force, and therefore limits how much we can change the system. It is the view of the Ministry of Justice that it is not possible, within the framework of the summer cottage protocol, to tighten up the conditions for obtaining an authorisation, including strengthening the practice of when an applicant has the necessary link with Denmark. The introduction of an absolute quota for the number of permits will mean that we will no longer continue with the system that was in force back in 1993, and thus the summer-house protocol will fall away. This means that we can no longer make use of the special arrangements negotiated with the summer cottage protocol, which means that we fall under the rules of EU law on free movement, and then the purchase of summer houses in Denmark will be opened up. The resolution we are debating today aims to introduce a quota ceiling of 0-20 permits per year for foreigners wishing to buy a holiday home in Denmark. The proposers have among other things: The proposal was based on the fact that there is a shortage of residential cottage areas and that there is a lax practice in this area, which means that too many permits are granted. The proposal is a partial re-submission of an earlier motion for a resolution... what was called B 19... which was, after all, tabled by the Danish People's Party on 12 October 2018. At that time, the European Committee gave its report that it was supported by the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten and the SF on the basis of the proposal. The report instructed the then government to ensure that fewer exemptions were granted to the purchase of summer homes by foreigners in Denmark. After the change of government in 2019, I and the government took over responsibility for the area. The government wants to uphold the special Danish summer cottage rule, which gives the Danes priority to buy holiday homes in this country, and we would also like to reduce the number of permits. That is why, in 2020, we agreed with the parties behind the report on B 19 that the Civilian Service should step up checks on the information provided by applicants by requiring, after a concrete assessment, evidence of the accuracy of the information. The EP's European Committee was informed of the strengthening of control on 12 March 2020, which also provided a follow-up to developments. At the beginning of 2021 and 2022, the European Parliamentary Committee received an overview of the development of the number of permits in 2020 and 2021, respectively, compared to previous years. The inventory shows that there has been an increase in the number of applications from 623 to 796 from 2020 to 2021. There has also been an increase in the number of permits granted here the figure has gone from 361 to 404 during the same period. So it would appear that progress has been made towards the granting of more permits. However, if you look at the percentage of applicants authorised during the period, it was in 2021 less than in 2020; the percentage of permits dropped from 58 to 51 per cent. The Government considers it essential that the number of permits be limited as far as possible within the framework of the summer cottage protocol. As I have explained, it is not possible to tighten the rules within the framework of the summer cottage protocol, and the government cannot therefore support the resolution. But I would like to stress that the government shares the wish that it is mainly Danes who can buy summer houses in Denmark. It is therefore important to maintain the focus on the monitoring of applications and the information contained in applications. For the same reason, I have called the rapporteurs for a political debate on the development of the number of permits, and in this respect it would be natural to discuss the strengthening of the monitoring of information introduced in 2020. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174153	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174158	Thanks for the speech. What I really want the Minister to say about • it is quite correct that back in 2018 a report was made which the Socialists were involved in • is what has happened more specifically when they say that they have now tried to change practice? So, what initiatives have been taken by the Minister for Justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174229	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174230	It is therefore important to say that the wording of trying to change practices is hardly correct. In other words, what has happened is to strengthen monitoring that the conditions for obtaining a permit are met, which can of course be reflected in the number of permits granted. However, one of the important points is that it is the concern of the Ministry of Justice that if we tighten up the conditions for obtaining a permit, we risk endangering the special arrangement we have with the summer house protocol and thus standing in a place that is worse than where we are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174314	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174315	So what you can say is that it's just the control part that you've gotten better.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174322	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174324	At least that is what we negotiated, and what we think is within the scope of what is possible, namely to become more sharp on the controls that are being carried out, for example. with the documentation relating to the relationship with Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174341	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174345	Thank you, Minister. It's just a simple question. We have this cottage protocol. The minister says we can't change much in it. But can we change anything in it? And if we change something in it, there will surely be a legal fight if the European Union thinks there is too much change in it, and how does it take shape? Does it take the form of some kind of letter of formal notice or some kind of request that we should correct, or what will happen more specifically? Of course, I am asking the question because it says something about what options there are in terms of testing where there are limits. The Minister may not be able to answer here, but we can also take it up when we meet on 24 March. But if the Minister can answer that, it would be interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174442	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174443	I do not think I can answer it with certainty that what I am saying is a full and comprehensive answer. So it will be my assumption of how it would play out on the basis of the question here. All other things being equal, I think that a legal battle would be such that the Commission would send us a letter of formal notice in order to have the relationship judged by the Court of Justice, i.e. whether we had violated the rules of the summer cottage protocol in a way that we would no longer be able to invoke it. But I'm actually unsure about it, so it's probably better to answer in writing. But all the other things being equal, I think this is how it is to be expected to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174523	Thank you. The next one is sir. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174528	In the Danish People's Party we have retabled the resolution because we are quite concerned. We are concerned that the many derogations in the long term will undermine the summer cottage protocol. We are because the many derogations have nothing to do with the obligation to live, and the summer house protocol is linked to the obligation to live in Denmark, while the derogations are about everything else. At some point, the Commission, the European Union, will have a look at all these exemptions, and they will say: well, now that you make all these derogations which have nothing to do with the obligation to live, you have actually made sure that the protocol is repealed, and that is why we are now judging Denmark to remove it. So my question to the Minister is: is the Minister not at all worried that the many derogations can undermine the summer-house protocol in the long term?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174633	This is, of course, a very technical issue because it is on an assessment of the very concrete formulation of the content of the summer house protocol. It may also be that it would go the other way, namely that one would say: the protocol, the exception that Denmark has, has been used in such a way that it has not given up the full stop, which is what EU law will all the other equally strike, because one would regard it as contrary to freedom of movement.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174708	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174711	The second question I would like to ask is a little about the obligation of residence, which is a legal concept. I simply cannot understand why the Ministry of Justice and the Government will not change the many derogations which have nothing to do with the obligation to live. You can get a derogation if you can prove that you have been following the media about Denmark and can tell a little about it. Then you can buy a cottage. Is it not possible for the government to tighten it up, so that the derogations are exclusively about the obligation of residence?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174749	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174750	What we cannot do is to tighten up the conditions for obtaining an authorisation, including not sharpen the practice of when an applicant has the necessary links with Denmark. But what we can and I want to say is that the example that was mentioned was that if you had just heard about Denmark in the media • is quite a long way from the cases that I have heard about at least where there is a derogation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174818	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174822	The Minister says that if we tighten up the conditions, it will open a barn gate, so to speak, that it will be a threat to the summer house rule. But I do not think there is the same realization, according to the reply to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, of the fact that, in my opinion, the very lenient derogation practice used could also pose a similar threat to the summer house rule. In other words, the summer cottage rule has been made on certain conditions, and when you start on a large scale, as is the case, that derogations from the conditions on which the summer cottage rule is given are an equally serious threat to the summer cottage rule, and I do not think the Minister addresses that in his reply to Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174916	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174917	I am sorry, because the answer is a little the same, since the question was the same, namely that it presupposes a review of what is in the summer house protocol. And when the Ministry of Justice investigates the protocol and looks at what we have to do to limit the possibility of acquiring holiday homes in Denmark, these are the right-left restrictions that I have described.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174946	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222174950	So I have to ask: does the Minister recognise that the criterion of residence may in fact be the decisive criterion when we go back to the acquisition law of 1959, that is, that it is the criterion of residence, that is, the overriding criterion for buying a summer house in Denmark, but that the Ministry uses all kinds of other concepts in order to be able to grant a derogation? So I would like to know: does the Minister recognise that the criterion of residence is the main criterion in order to be able to grant a derogation to buy a holiday home in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222175035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222175036	At least in the sense that if we can maintain the system that existed before 1 November 1993, that is, before the Maastricht Treaty, it is either a requirement for residence, i.e. a direct claim for residence or, as I said, within a total of at least five years prior to that, or a possibility of authorisation. That is why, of course, it is one of the essentials of the foundation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222175105	Thank you. There are no more brief comments to the Minister for Justice, so we are going to start with the rapporteur's series. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party, sir. Theis Chicken Hommeltoft.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222175119	Thank you very much for the floor. I'll see if I can make it a little exciting. Today we are going to deal first with the motion for a resolution B 51, tabled by the Danish People's Party, on an annual quota ceiling of 0-20 exemptions for the purchase of summer houses in Denmark when the obligation to live is not fulfilled. In the Social Democratic Party we fully agree with the proposers that it is important to limit the number of foreign purchases of Danish summer houses. Of course, Danish citizens must have the first right to acquire a nice holiday home in our country, to get closer to our nature and to contribute to the local environments around the country. We absolutely must not have empty summer houses with distant owners standing in a small country where the number of holiday homes and the possibility of building new ones are obviously limited. Therefore, we must keep a close eye on the development of the number of permits granted to buy a holiday home in Denmark for foreign purchasers and limit the number of permits as far as possible. However, this must be done within the framework of the summer cottage protocol, and the Ministry of Justice is of the opinion that this is not the case if, for example, we do not. introduce a quota ceiling as proposed here. And in this way the adoption of this proposal will simply turn back as a boomerang and ultimately open up the market completely and thus have the exact opposite effect than it intended. As the rules are today, it requires permission to buy a holiday home in Denmark if you do not fulfil the residence requirement. Thus, if you have not or have not previously resided in Denmark for a minimum of 5 years, a separate permit is required which requires a special connection with the country. This special scheme for Denmark is guaranteed in the summer cottage protocol, which extends the arrangements that were in force when we got free movement with the Maastricht Treaty 30 years ago. However, if we now introduce a new quota, we will change the original system to such an extent that the summer house protocol is likely to lapse, which we must avoid, so that the Danes have a preference to buy Danish summer houses. However, we must, of course, do what we can to ensure that permits are only granted to foreign buyers of holiday homes that have a real connection with Denmark and, of course, within the framework of EU law and the summer cottage protocol. Since the accession of the Socialist Government, we have introduced tighter monitoring of applications and, as the authors themselves note, the percentage of refusals has increased in the last year. We are therefore on the right track, but we have no interest in compromising the cottage protocol by amending the original system. Against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution. Finally, I would like to remind the authors of the motion that many Danes benefit from the opportunity to buy a holiday home abroad, and in the same way enjoy, for example, a holiday home. Members of the Danish minority south of the South Jutland border benefit from this very possibility of derogation. Then I must remember that, on behalf of the Radical Left, I have to say that they cannot support the proposal either. So thank you for the floor. I look forward to a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222175433	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222175437	Thank you. I just want to know whether the Socialist rapporteur does not agree with the Enhedslisten that it is interesting to clarify exactly where our playing opportunities are. When it is interesting, it is of course because the refusal rate increases yes but if the number of applications increases more than the refusal rate, then the net result will be that there are more and more summer houses coming into foreign hands. And there's some kind of ceiling for how long it can go on. So, is it not a good idea for us to clarify exactly where the room is in relation to changing the way we administer the summer house rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222175530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222175531	Thank you for the question. After all, I am not a lawyer or anything, but as I have understood the whole summer house protocol, it is precisely the case that there is no possibility of tightening it up. In relation to the granting of such a derogation, one might say, there will be the same conditions for the first 0-20 applicants, but for the 21st applicant there will in fact be stricter requirements in that the possibility of this derogation has been removed. As far as I know, the sharpening is simply where it turns. We can relax the rule in practice, but we can never sharpen it, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222175613	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Left, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222175625	Thank you for that, President. When we are debating today a motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party to introduce a maximum ceiling. Twenty derogations for foreigners wishing to buy a holiday home in Denmark, so we have to say that we who have been here for a few years remember that we have talked about this earlier in Parliament. Back in 2018, we actually discussed a similar proposal from the Danish People's Party. And I can say that it was not I who was then the rapporteur of the Left on the proposal, but I have been there to see the discussion from 2018. At that time, the Minister for Justice, Søren Pape Poulsen, said that it is not possible to implement the Danish People's Party's proposal within the framework of the summer cottage protocol. That is also what I hear the current Minister of Justice is saying today. As we have also heard other rapporteurs say, Denmark has a special scheme for foreigners to buy holiday homes in this country, and this is a scheme that dates back to 1993. It is a special scheme that we call the summer cottage protocol on a daily basis, and the special feature of the protocol is that it allows us to demand that foreigners apply for a derogation in order to buy a summer cottage in this country. Without the summer cottage protocol, I have to say that we are running the risk of having a very, very large number of foreigners who are going to apply for, or rather just buy, a summer cottage in this country. Therefore, in relation to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party back in 2018, when the Ministry of Justice considered that it was not possible in the context of the summer House Protocol, I must say that we simply do not want to risk it, as we also said on the Left side at that time. I think that the risk is far too great if you change this, and you will actually have, I think, the quite opposite effect of what the Danish People's Party might actually want, so you actually risk that a great many foreign citizens will come to this square and free to buy a holiday home in this country, knowing that at worst we will lose this special right. That is why I can say, also as the rapporteur for tourism in the Left, that I believe that we must safeguard the summer-house protocol, and that is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222175911	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222175934	I have promised to read out a speech from our EU rapporteur, who unfortunately cannot be here. I have promised to say that we are in favour of the summer house rule. It was one of the conditions for Danish membership of the EEC in 1972. The intention was then and today to protect the Danish cottage market from excessive price increases, which would be the consequence if there were free access for foreigners to acquire holiday homes in Denmark. That protection makes sense, and that is why we must continue to have a summer house rule. We do not believe that a very large number of exemptions should be granted to strong foreign nationals and foreign companies so that they can invest in summer houses in Denmark without having fulfilled the residence obligation of 5 years' permanent residence in Denmark, as the law prescribes. In addition, it is more economical for foreigners to rent the Danish summer houses rather than own them themselves. In the end, this will make better use of the houses for the benefit of the tourist areas and the people who live there. The summer cottage rule has been challenged several times, as for example. This was done in the late 1980s when capital movements in the EU were liberalised and, as the comments on the motion for a resolution also state, the European Court of Justice is quite aware of the Danish summer cottage rule. Too many exemptions could help undermine the summer house rule, which is an exception to the EU Treaty, which could be challenged by the European Court of Justice. It has also come as a surprise to us that so many derogations are granted and we believe that this is a good opportunity to see how dispensation is being made. After all, we are ready to look for different options, as long as we are on safe ground in relation to EU law, of course. We are interested in finding solutions that can help ensure that the number of exemptions from the summer house rule is kept to a minimum. We are therefore in favour of the intention of the proposal, but we are concerned about the aspects of EU law. That is why we cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222180142	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222180200	Enhedslisten is for the summer house rule. We think that summer houses in Denmark should be for the people who live here • they can then be foreigners; we have no problem at all with that, but they should be for the people who live in Denmark, if only for ecological reasons. Then there are some who will say: Well, yes, but you can buy desert farms in Sweden, and some buy holiday homes in Greece, and what do I know, and is it not pure hypocrisy? In our view, it is not. So, we would have nothing against it if Sweden or Greece or other countries had a similar rule or had a similar rule or forced through that they could have a similar rule that their summer homes were primarily for their citizens, and for that matter also that apartments in Berlin were primarily for Berlin's citizens or Germany's citizens and not for foreigners. So we would have no problem at all with doing it that way. It is clear, of course, that there is a difference between how many holiday homes you have available in relation to the population, and there is, of course, a fact that Denmark is a relatively small country with fairly large neighbours. But we are in favour of the summer house rule. On the other hand, we are also in favour of the derogation. In other words, it requires a strong attachment to be granted a derogation, and we are required to have a previous stay in Denmark or a family, cultural or linguistic connection. We're in favour of this exemption option. We find it strange that people who have lived in Denmark many years ago or had a family in Denmark are not able to obtain an exemption. So we want to defend it too. Then we can see that from 2020 to 2021 the number of applications has increased from 623 to 796, while the number of responses has increased from 361 to 404. We do not find that increase in itself extremely disturbing, but it is clear that if it continues, there may be a problem at some point, and therefore we are also willing to look at this issue. And that's why we're also willing not only to discuss it because, of course, we're willing to discuss it when it's presented in Parliament but we're willing to look at it positively; just not now, just not today. Then why not? This is not so much for the sake of EU technicalities. In other words, it is clear that we should not do anything in relation to the European Union, which means that the summer house rule disappears, but, in addition, we should just explore what is possible for us to have as much self-determination as possible, and then we should use it as we would like to use it. For us there is no doubt about it. But the reality is that we were discussing this case two years ago, and we had an agreement two years ago I was with myself at the Ministry of Justice together with among others. The Danish People's Party's current chairman, where we made an appointment to meet again 2 years later. Two years ago, we agreed to meet two years later, and that meeting is scheduled for 24 March. It is a little bit more than 2 years, but within a framework that is like reasonable. That is why we think that we should take that meeting and then at that meeting we should discuss what we are doing and whether what we have been is working as intended, what the problems are, what the possibilities are. And that's where I expect us to get a good result. And in view of that meeting, we can come back to this at a possible second reading, but at first reading we cannot therefore give an undertaking to support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222180602	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Gitte Willumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222180618	Thank you for that, President. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party on a quota ceiling of 0-20 derogations for the purchase of summer houses in Denmark when the obligation of residence is not fulfilled. At the Conservative People's Party we have great sympathy for the proposal. We agree with the proposers that summer houses in Denmark should be reserved for residents in the country. However, we are also of the opinion that in specific cases it must be possible to derogate from the residence requirement, for example. if you have family ties with Denmark. As we can today, we know that permission can be sought from the Ministry of Justice. That is the way we think it should be in the future. We must not compromise on the summer cottage protocol for two reasons. On the one hand, we may lose our special right, as we do, and on the other hand, we may risk that large cottage areas may lie uninhabited for most of the year, which may adversely affect the cottage country on many parameters. Many Danish holiday home owners rent their houses for 24-25 weeks a year. This rental provides life and benefits the entire economy in the outskirts and on small holiday islands, where shop life, restaurants and cafés and the entire tourist industry have millions of income on holiday guests, and craftsmen have tasks with maintenance of the rental houses. Finally, rental agencies with office staff, cleaning teams and booking are also important players in the holiday areas. This gives jobs to the local population in areas where jobs may otherwise be difficult to find. Renting is an important piece in a major economic game in the holiday areas. That is why we must stick to the Danish summer cottage protocol, as we know it today, which we are fortunate enough to have as the only country in the European Union. In the Conservative People's Party, we are satisfied with the practice we find today, which allows for a derogation from the residence requirement at the Ministry of Justice in special cases, and we cannot therefore support the proposal B 51 tabled by the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222180836	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party. As far as I can see, there are no more rapporteurs for the parties in the Chamber, so that is why the last rapporteur is the rapporteur for the proposers, and that is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222180901	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the rapporteurs for the various speeches. Let me start with the positive. Everyone in the Chamber today is for the summer house rule, which is good. Secondly, it is not going to be so good, and this is because there are different assessments of the consequences of the resolution. The Government and the Ministry of Justice consider that if we do, as the Danish People's Party has proposed, it will undermine the summer house protocol in the long term, and it has largely taken note of all parties in some way except Enhedslisten, which has actually expressed an interest in drilling it further. We would like to thank you for that. The Danish People's Party then believes that the current practice may eventually undermine the summer house protocol, because we are granting more and more derogations which are not based on residence obligations. Let me just briefly outline what the Ministry of Justice's guidance is about and it will be very short so that you can waive this residence obligation. After all, the residence obligation is linked to the summer cottage protocol and the summer cottage protocol is written at treaty level. This means that it is above regulations and that it is above directives. What does the Ministry of Justice advise on when to grant a waiver? It may be a previous stay in Denmark, e.g. in the form of a summer holiday. It can be a family connection. It can be a linguistic or cultural attachment. It may also be that you are interested in Denmark via the media. Finally, it may be that you are linked to a specific secondary residence. It offers quite wide scope for exemption, and that is where we are really concerned. But I can also hear from my colleagues that the government and the Minister's arguments have been bought. I can also hear that you are interested in somehow making sure that this summer cottage rule is not undermined. The Enhedslisten has suggested that we go deeper into it and look into it. I would like to agree with that. That's actually a good idea. I also have great respect for the fact that we are not going to take a position today, because a meeting has been convened on 25 March. In addition, we could do so, and I hope that the Minister may want us to look at whether we can tighten up the current rules further. I hope that we will be able to clarify this on 25 March when we meet. If you are not interested in setting up a quota system because the Ministry considers that it can undermine the summer house protocol, and we in the Danish People's Party, with our assessment that current practice undermines the summer house protocol, cannot get our will through here in the Danish Parliament, then the way forward for everyone here must be that we somehow find a way to tighten up the existing exemption possibilities so that fewer people in the future will have a derogation that is not tied to the residence obligation. That is what is so crucial. I mean, we've got ourselves into a stupid situation, because it's the duty of residence that's what matters. This is the one to which the summer cottage protocol is attached. It's in the rules. The problem is our derogations, which undermine the cottage protocol. But if we could somehow tighten up the rules together and perhaps the Minister could draw up a proposal for this on 25 March, then we are very willing to go that way. At least we have reached one step along the way. Because we're worried about the Danish People's Party. Whether we are right or whether it is the government that is right, time will tell. We hope, of course, that the government is right. We just don't believe it's right. So in those words, I look forward to the meeting on 25 March, and once again I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for the very concrete proposal. I also hope that the Ministry can draw up some kind of note. Those were supposed to be my words for the time being.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181357	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181359	Thank you. Thanks for the speech. I now have the rapporteur on the floor, and I would actually like to ask about the very model contained in this motion for a resolution. So, does the rapporteur not see a problem in that? Now, if you imagined what happened here, and you said that max. Twenty could be allowed to buy a holiday home, I suppose, every year here in Denmark, how could one put such a model into practice, without there being any kind of or at least a risk of some form of discrimination? Well, what about number one? No 21. 22, no. 23, which might even be more entitled to buy a holiday home?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181452	The summer cottage protocol is already tied up on a form of discrimination, because in order for you as a foreigner to buy a summer cottage in Denmark, you must have lived here for 5 years. Then we have provided for derogations, and there we say: that is going too far. We then propose a quota model, 0-20 a year, and that is where we consider that to be the way we want to do it. The Ministry and the government consider that this could undermine the summer-house protocol in the long term, and then it is that we are willing to take a meeting on it on 25 March to see if we cannot tighten up the derogations rather than go the way we have proposed. Well, we're willing to do anything we can to keep our summerhouse protocol in the long run. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181548	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181550	I was also just a little curious to know whether this was a model that the rapporteur might have experienced in a different context, that is, where it comes from. And then I still think away when I see the model, that somehow it's kind of like winning the lottery. I mean, you're gonna be no. 20, you're in the lottery, but you're no. 21, even though you may even be more entitled to buy a holiday home, do you risk losing in the lottery?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181622	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181623	Are you no. 21, you can then apply for the next year. Earlier today, another type of quota has been discussed, namely gender quotas, and we are not so happy with them, so quotas need per quota. definition not to be anything good.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181638	Thank you. Then it's mr. Theis Chicken Hommeltoft.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181648	Thank you for the floor. I think it's a little bit too bad that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen makes it sound as if this dispensation is given on a very lenient basis, for that is certainly not the case. As far as I am aware, derogations are very rarely granted where the link is less than 10 years old. In other words, 25 long-term holiday stays in Denmark are not, in principle, enough to obtain such a derogation. So maybe it isn't just an expression that there is a lovely country and that more people have come to realize that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181725	Well, we know that Denmark is attractive to many, and that's why they want to come here. And Danish summer houses are also very attractive, which I understand. But we just want to prevent the summer house rule that we have today from being undermined in the long term, because it is quite important to us. It protects Danish summer houses from being bought up. It is a legal rule that is at treaty level. We are just afraid that the current exemptions will undermine the summer cottage protocol. That's why we've proposed this quota model. The government then says it will undermine in the long term. Then what we are saying is that OK, so let us take the government at its word and tighten the rules further so that the number of exemptions falls.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181818	There is no wish for another comment. There are no more brief comments. Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181848	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go, sir. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222181853	Thank you. As a Socialist legal rapporteur, I am glad that today we are dealing with this draft law, which is a proposal to strengthen the fight against human exploitation. For as the bill begins with, there must be proper pay and working conditions in the Danish labour market. This is a matter of great concern to the government and to the social democracy, which is why we have been fighting against social dumping from the outset. We want a decent labour market in Denmark with proper conditions and conditions for both Danish and foreign workers. Unfortunately, this is not always the case. We have seen sad examples of vulnerable foreign workers being exploited harshly and, in the worst cases, being traded for forced labour. Unfortunately, it has proved difficult to hit the backers with the current legislation. We have to do something about that. At the time of its accession, the Government decided to continue the Working Party on the Protection of Vulnerable Foreign Workers and has among other things: It is the task of the Commission to look at ways in which we will have better opportunities to prosecute the perpetrators. The recommendation is that we insert a new provision into the criminal code, which independently criminalises the exploitation of others for work in conditions that are manifestly unfair. We'll follow this recommendation with this bill. At the same time, we are introducing a number of other measures which should make a difference in relation to human exploitation. First of all, we introduce a new section 262b on human exploitation into the penal code. The current rules on trafficking in human beings have proved difficult to apply to this type of exploitation case, because it has been difficult to prove the actual forceful element. The other rules that we have in the catalogue have not really been able to contain or reflect how serious a type of crime it is to exploit other people for work under quite blatantly unfair conditions. The new rule makes up for that. This makes it possible to punish the perpetrators, even if no coercive measures have been used. The bill also ensures a number of other things. It ensures that victims of human exploitation, as well as victims of trafficking in human beings, are given the right to an aid lawyer who can support them in the process. And we give the police the same opportunities to intervene in the secret of communications and secret searches as in cases involving, among others, trafficking in human beings. Finally, the draft law also has an alien legal aspect, by ensuring that people convicted of human exploitation can be covered by the 10-year waiting period for an aupair application. All in all, it is a really good and important legislative proposal that strengthens the fight against a serious type of crime, which affects some very vulnerable people and which fundamentally undermines our good Danish labour market. Of course, we support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222182140	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you, Mr President. Bjørn Brandenborg. The next rapporteur is from the Left. Here you go, sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222182152	Thank you for that, President. Actually, it's sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, who is the rapporteur of the Left on this bill, but unfortunately he could not be in the Chamber this evening, so I have promised to make the rapporteur's speech and it is this: thank the government for the legislative proposal that we are considering today. The proposal is about protecting workers, both Danish and foreign, from exploitation to work under manifestly unreasonable conditions. This is a very good proposal, which, among other things, is a good one. follow-up to the report issued by an inter-ministerial working group in September 2021. The report shows that it is difficult to prosecute the perpetrators of trafficking in human beings for forced labour, as it is difficult to lift the burden of proof that there is real forced labour. Therefore, no judgment has ever been passed on trafficking in human beings into forced labour, as it has not been possible to establish that there has been coercion for the exploitation of the workers concerned for forced labour. Instead, in a number of cases the perpetrators have been convicted of usury of a particularly serious nature. The draft law here introduces a separate clause on the use of human beings into the criminal code, as well as a number of other measures designed to strengthen criminal justice against the exploitation of workers. This provision should significantly improve the ability to convict the bakers or the bakers. Many of us probably remember the case of Filipino and Sri Lankan truck drivers who lived in a messy situation in Padborg and who got down to 15 kroner. in the hour for their work. Several managers from the transport company were charged with usury and exploitation of the employees, but they were all acquitted. The Left believes that gross exploitation of people in the Danish labour market should be combated, and therefore the Left will not accept that exploitation takes place in Danish jobs either. When existing legislation turns out to be inadequate or difficult to apply, we need to create new or additional legislation. That is what we are doing today and, of course, the Liberals are happy to do so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222182423	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the SF, and that is Mrs Karina Lorentzen Dehnhardt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222182449	Thank you and thank the Minister for bringing forward this bill. In Denmark, Danish pay and working conditions apply, and this means that just because you are a foreign worker and you do not know your rights, there must not be any freedom to exploit his or her vulnerability in relation to being dependent on getting a job and earning money. It is therefore a great pleasure for me that we are finally getting ashore with this matter. In 2014, I proposed exactly what the proposal today is about: that the clauses on trafficking in human beings should be amended so that it will be easier to come after the employers who exploit foreign workers with manifestly unfair working conditions, which involve gross exploitation and inhumane treatment. At that time in 2014 it happened on the basis of some very rough cases. In one case, the balcony case, two Romanians were paid 3,000 to 4,000 kroner. a month for 10 hours of daily work. They lived on the employer's balcony for 31⁄2 years. In the second case, the garage case, lived up to 12 Romanians at a time in a garage without heating and toilet in Helsingør, while they were enslaved with cleaning work for up to 20 hours a day for a shitty salary of between 2,500 DKK. and 5,000 kroner. a month. In a third case, the basement case, other Romanians lived in a basement while they worked with cleaning 18 hours a day. They were cheated on the salary, and they were actually found starving because they had to find their food in garbage cans. The basement was without water, electricity, heating and toilet, so they had to feed in the garden. None of the cases were convicted of trafficking in human beings at that time, because there had been no use of threats, violence or coercion, and that was why I tabled the proposal. At that time, the Minister of Justice at that time told me that we should not thin down the concept of trafficking in human beings, but that we should ensure that the provisions of the criminal code on usury and coercion should be used more. Of course, it annoyed us a lot, and then there were new cases. Several of them have already been mentioned: the Kurt Beier case, where truck drivers lived under the wildest slums in Padborg; the many cases of Ukrainian agricultural practitioners who live in miserable conditions or where their already very low wages are fiddled; and now also reports that another transport company, Contrans, pays down to 25 DKK. in an hour and lets drivers stay in a parking lot. So the problem is still gone, and it actually caused SF to also retable the proposal from 2014 in 2019. For the number of sponsors convicted of trafficking in human beings for forced labour in Denmark remains zero in 2022, and that is, although the Centre against Trafficking in Human Beings has concluded that they actually find a number of people. A total of 102 people have been victims of trafficking in human beings for forced labour in the period 2009-2019, and that is of course no good. Trafficking in and exploitation of people is one of the most disgusting things that exists, and it is therefore of course also surprising that seven years should pass from the fact that we had a proposal for the first time until something really happens, but I am very glad that the government is listening. We have seen cases in the transport, construction, cleaning and catering sectors, which have been found to be infected by forced labour and trafficking in human beings. It has also attracted attention abroad, I know where, unfortunately, we are not so well compared with other countries in relation to our efforts in this area. So it is very good that we are being corrected. Then there are also some consultation answers that point to some elements that could be different. 3F points out that there should be higher punishment than what is proposed. There are others who say that it is fine for there to be a waiting period in relation to au pairs; should we not also have it for agricultural practitioners? That sounds very reasonable, I think. And then there are some challenges in relation to prostitution and the human trafficking clauses there, but I think that is something that we can clarify in committee work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222182911	Thank you. That did not give rise to brief comments, so thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Samira Nawa.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222182926	Thank you very much. To legislate against human exploitation is, of course, not something that can be opposed, and that is why we in the Radical Left are also in favour of this bill and its elements, such as this one. the possibility of having an aid lawyer appointed. However, we in the Radical Left have some questions which we want answered before we finally take a position on the draft law here, and that could be either when the Minister goes to the floor, or in writing. This is, for example, the case. on the wording "obviously unreasonable circumstances' written into the draft law. There we are a little curious about what obviously unfair conditions really mean. What is it that employers have to live up to? What are the specific requirements they must comply with? In any case, we need that to be further fleshed out. A six-year penalty has also been proposed. It is, of course, a high punishment, and I cannot quite clearly read out why you have landed right there. We would actually like to see a detailed account of this. However, as I said, there will also be some questions we will be asking in connection with the work of the committee. Basically, we do not mean in the Radical Left, in forced labour or in the exploitation of people should take place on the Danish labour market or on Danish soil at all. So we will come back with a final position when we have answered the questions during the committee procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183105	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Enhedslisten. Mrs. Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183116	Thank you for the floor. Today, victims of trafficking in human beings have horrible legal certainty, and the perpetrators are walking almost free and can continue to exploit vulnerabilities over and over again. It is unfair, it is sick • what does it not say about a society that employers can repeatedly expose people to human trafficking and gross exploitation. Several cases have been mentioned in this Chamber today and, unfortunately, several cases can be added to the list. Each case has helped to reveal the lack of consistency with those responsible for trafficking in human beings in Denmark. Let us take an example, for there is something amber-sounding wrong with the system when drivers from the Philippines and Sri Lanka are grossly exploited with low wages and poor conditions, but the employer is practically free of punishment. For many, it has been an eye-opener, how there can still exist in today's Denmark a gross exploitation of poor people. This shows capitalism when it is rough and harsh and rough and when the EU is a slappy country for smart employers at the expense of people's lives. The Padborg case is a toxic combination of miserable housing conditions and gross exploitation of people in vulnerable situations and also shows how Article 262a of the Penal Code on trafficking in human beings is practically useless when it comes to situations of forced labour. And that is why we need a new penal clause that guarantees the rights and legal certainty of victims of human exploitation. It is essential that we legally put a chair at the door of employers in relation to taking advantage of another person's financial or personal difficulties, addictions or the like. In the light of the Padborg case, it is important that the proposal contains a clear and secure legal basis for penal sanctions against any party who, on Danish soil, without being an employer or in a direct contractual relationship with employees, is involved or otherwise assists in human exploitation. There the Minister writes that it is concrete in the comments following the consultations, and we would like to look into that. And we think it is positive that it has been reacted to, and we would like to follow up on that. In addition, we are also open to looking at the criminal framework. Employers who calculated grossly exploit people in these situations must be punished and they must be severely punished. In the so-called Thyborønfisher case, where people were subjected to slave-like conditions, they were locked in, roughly underpaid, were deprived of their passports, etc. A third factor appears to be mild, and a penalty of up to 11 years should be considered, so that the reasons for the punishment are also observed in the duration of exploitation and the extent of persons who have been exploited. Here the Minister then refers to cases of trafficking in human beings to be covered under section 262a of the Criminal Code with a penalty of up to 10 years. But some of these human-exploitation cases are so gross that the penalty framework should be revisited. We hope that the Minister will be open to this. There are also other parts that you can go into, but I will end by using the last part of my speaking time to focus on those who have ensured that we can stand here today in Parliament and deal with this proposal. Let us be honest: this would not have happened without the 3F members financing a task that we should have undertaken together. It is their quota crowns that have paid for the connection, and not least the trade journal has done this task. A strong effort is needed. With the recent agreements, we have strengthened the fight against social dumping and human exploitation, but we have simply not got far enough to secure the bulwark that is needed against the greedy employers, who clearly have no limits on what they want to expose other people to in order to benefit from it. So I will finish by thanking all of you who are helping to fight this. And I would also like to sign for a bill like this that moves the rules of the game in society in the right direction for ordinary people. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183549	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183552	Thank you. And thank you to Enhedslisten. It is just so nice to stand down here and experience that we can agree on something. I heard the rapporteur say that the Enhedslisten will be in favour of this penalty being set up because the offence is so serious that we simply have to. That is why I just want to hear from the rapporteur: is it a general trend that the Enhedslisten is now in favour of a higher penalty for serious crimes, or is it only in connection with this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183625	Thank you. There are several examples that we are in favour of raising the penalty when we can see that it is important for criminal acts like this to take place, that is, when someone calculated to go in and plan how they will commit something criminal, such as: In this relationship. That is where we know that what the penalty will be is important. The rapporteur is also very welcome, if you want to look at other parts, to talk to our legal rapporteur about it. It may be that there are several places to agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183700	Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183701	I'm just glad to hear that, and I'd like to sign for it. And then I look forward to discussing legislative proposals or resolutions to tighten up the penalties for serious violence, enriching crimes and other things, because it looks like it is going to be a very broad and good cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183717	We are always ready for a good dialogue and to look at what we can actually do, both to ensure that the crime is not carried out in the first place, but of course also to ensure that it does not happen again.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183731	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183732	Thank you. In fact, like Mrs Britt Baker, I would just like to acknowledge that the Enhedslisten here says that some higher penalties could be good. Some of the things we sometimes see in this Parliament are, on the one hand, higher penalties, for example. It is a good way of ensuring that the person who has committed crime is in prison and thus unable to commit new crime, and that it can deter some people from doing crime at all if the penalties are of a certain size. I would like to know whether Enhedslisten thinks that both things can be relevant here, or whether it is only that as long as a person is in prison, he cannot commit new crimes that are good. Can Enhedslisten make us a little smarter on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183824	It is nothing new that we in the Enhedslist look at whether it has a meaning, what the penal framework is, in terms of preventing a criminal offence from happening in the first place, and that is, of course, the case here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183837	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183838	I am really grateful for the answer here. I just have to say that I have now followed the Act of Enhedslisten in a number of cases, for example. Some of what Mrs Britt Baker also mentioned, namely gang crime, violence, violent crime, rape and so on, and there is news for me that the Enhedslisten believes that this has the effect that the rapporteur is talking about here, in other words, a positive effect in terms of preventing crime, an increase in penalties in an area. So I sign that this is the argument, and then I hope we can use it in other contexts too, so that we can have higher penalties for violence and rape. We in the Danish People's Party believe this is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183919	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183919-2	That is where it is important that we go in and look at every single place, whether it is actually something that does not happen in the first place, or whether it is some other thing that needs to be done in order for us to succeed. And that's where we'd like to go and look at every single place. It may be that there is something about financial crime where there could also be agreement between the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183942	Thank you. Now there are no more brief comments to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go, Mrs. Britt Baker.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222183949	Thank you. The legislative proposal we are discussing here today aims to protect vulnerable workers from exploitation. We must always ensure fair conditions on the Danish labour market, and gross exploitation is by no means acceptable. In 2019, the government set up an inter-ministerial working group, which reported in September 2021, and the working group found that it was extremely difficult to lift the burden of burden of forced labour with the usurer's provision that has been used for today, in fact, so difficult that there had never been a conviction. In other words, the current legislation is inadequate. We cannot allow people to be exploited on the Danish labour market, and that is why we in the Conservative People's Party naturally support this bill. And I should say hello from New Citizens and say that so do they.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222184051	Thank you to Mrs Britt Baker. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222184111	Thank you very much. In the Danish People's Party we are very much in favour of this bill no. L 111. It is, of course, in its simplicity to improve the fight against slave-like conditions for workers in Denmark. We can hardly disagree with that, and basically it is a proposal which, as several rapporteurs have said, has been put forward after rather thorough preparatory work. There have been some of the cases that have fallen to the ground or partially fallen to the ground in the past, where many people probably had agreed that there should have been some emotional punishments and judgments, but where they have not succeeded because of various technical quirks, which, from our point of view, have certainly not been in place. If we adopt this proposal, it will mean that we will, more fundamentally, make it clear that employers will not be able to take advantage of foreign workers who are practically living as slaves while they are working for the company in question. After all, we are a good country in Denmark, and those who work here must of course do so under proper conditions. If the employer cannot find a way of offering workers proper conditions, then we need to ensure that this can happen from a legislative point of view and raise some of the companies that cannot find out with more clear legislation. That's what this bill says. With this bill, it will be harder to use workers harshly, for example. Some of the foreign workers who have gone to Denmark have come to Denmark and have received a treatment that we simply cannot stand up to in a society like the Danish one. There have then been various points that are still missing from this. There is, of course, the question of criminality not only in Denmark, but also in other countries, which may be a problem. If it is not in place in all cases, or if you have a different yardstick in other countries, it may cause us problems here in relation to the matters to be decided here. There is a piece of work there that needs to be looked at, and we will ask a little more about that during committee work. Then there is a question of resources, because one thing is that we make the legislation more clear, but it is also clear that it must be a priority of our authorities, that such matters are being handled and that you are out in the workplace picking things up and becoming aware of the problems. Some of our trade unions are quite good at discovering them, but there must, like, be some who take over when the reviews come. Then perhaps there is not least, as several have mentioned and quite surprisingly also the Enhedslisten (Enhedslisten). It is certainly surprising to me that there are parties in here, for example. The Enhedslisten, which I have seen as some who were very slow to understand that in some key areas some higher penalties would have to be imposed on violence and rape, for example. It promises so well that we may be able to create a majority which, on top of this proposal, also increases the penalty. It is also one of the things that has come to us in the hearings that there is a desire on the part of several people. So we are one hundred percent positive in the Danish People's Party on this proposal. With the three elements that I added here at the end, where perhaps some improvements could be made, we will take a positive step in the work of the committee, and I think we will end up voting in favour of this, but we would like to improve it on a few points.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222184507	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Thank you, sir. Peter Skaarup. Then we have reached the rapporteur's line, and now it is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222184514	First of all, thank you for the good comments and comments that have been made along the way. The SF's rapporteur so graphically described some of the situations which have been difficult, rude and outrageous and which have been described in different ways. And it has to be said that this is just not how it should be in Denmark. When it is just not supposed to be like this in Denmark, it is because we have had a system for more than 100 years in which the social partners sit together and find out how our working conditions should be regulated. This has led to a proper working environment, an honest salary and holiday money. It has led us to live with the level of prosperity that we have in Denmark. It is, of course, being undermined every time there are some who consistently go beyond it, and every time there are some who exploit people and break it down here. It is detrimental to the whole structure on which our society rests. Of course, it is also monstrous to those who suffer. We have had the provisions on trafficking in human beings for a long time, and we have them, as such, still gone. We still have away the regulation and punishment for trafficking in human beings. It has been complex, as has also been mentioned, to apply those rules in a number of cases. This problem will be overcome by the fact that some of what has been encountered in the previous regulation has been the case here with coercion, because it is no longer a condition. The fact that the perpetrator himself has to gain an undue advantage is no longer a condition. Finally, there is no longer a requirement for a contractual relationship. It means everything else being equal: we will be able to punish in some of the situations that have been looked at with wonder and in which we have thought: it was amazing, however, that it should not be punished more severely than it has been. Then some questions have been raised. Some of them are very good to take in connection with the committee work. I just want to address a few of these. A question has been raised about the waiting period for agricultural pupils. Let's take a look. Then we have been asked about prostitution. In fact, in some of the situations where prostitution has been involved, it has also succeeded in judging human trafficking, which is a good thing. Then we finally have Article 233 of the criminal code, that is to say the rules on prostitution, to fall back on where, if it is an employment relationship, it will be possible to judge by it. Then a new and exciting alliance has emerged in Danish politics today, namely with Enhedslisten, who declares himself as supporters of tougher penalties. Yeah, well, if you keep going long enough, you're gonna experience most of it here. They say that this six-year penalty might be right on the bottom. I would like to say that, with a six-year penalty, we are up to the top of the line, both in terms of the criminal framework itself and also in terms of the means of investigation which this gives the police the opportunity to use. Human exploitation has a penalty of 10 years and vice versa has a penalty of 4 years. That is why we think that a penalty of about six years could be relevant and sensible here. It is clear, however, that if it is viewed differently, we can work on it in the context of committee work. So thank you very much for the all around positive expressions. I believe that this will be one of the proposals which the Folketing will be able to adopt in complete agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222184858	Thank you. There are no brief comments to the Minister of Justice. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222184911	The debate is open. The first to speak is from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go, sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222184935	Thank you for the floor. Last summer, the government, together with a broad majority of the Danish Parliament's parties, entered into an agreement to continue working on a merger of the two state gambling companies, Danske Game and the Danish Class Lottery. The purpose of this was, among other things, to: achieve synergies in terms of operating savings and increased profits. At the same time, it was stressed that the class lottery should be preserved with independent identity, including fire, products and customers. In order to ensure that Danske Gambling will be able to offer class lottery and that the beneficiaries of the amounts distributed in profits and dividends from the Danish Games and the Class Lottery respectively are not affected by the merger, a number of consequences of the existing legislation are necessary. It is therefore suggested that the Class Lottery will in future become a subsidiary of the Danske Spil Group, but that the class lottery will thus be preserved in its identity and brand. At the same time, the merger creates even better conditions for the Danske Spil Group to continue its work to ensure a responsible and balanced gambling market in Denmark, and this is important because the state gambling companies bear a significant responsibility for promoting a responsible gambling market in Denmark. It is therefore expected that after the merger the Danske Game Group will strengthen the ongoing initiatives to promote responsible gambling and thus lead the way and act as a role model for the other gambling companies. The proposal is expected to result in permanent additional revenue for the State after a return and behaviour of approximately 20 million. kr. annual. All in all, therefore, the draft law ensures that the many associations and other distribution recipients benefit from the greater profits that the merger will bring. At the same time, the merger creates an improved framework to promote a responsible game. The Social Democrats therefore support the proposal, and I should like to welcome Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, and Carl Valentin, SF, respectively, and say that the two parties also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222185157	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go, sir. Kenneth Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222185215	Thank you for the floor. In the Left we are behind both, but also in the political agreement from the summer of 2021, and we are therefore also in favour of the merger of the Danish Games and the Class Lottery that we are discussing here today. The main objective is to reduce administrative costs, but at the same time to increase the investment in the digitisation of these two companies. As I have said, we welcome the fact that the merger will also create a permanent additional revenue estimated at 20 million. kr., and that therefore in the long term we can increase the distribution funds for the many good purposes already mentioned. We have two points of attention which we will just bring to the square in the negotiations here. The first point of attention is, of course, that the comments to the bill mention that this will increase the Danes' spirit of play or increase the number of Danes who play. That is why it is important that there is a focus on responsible gambling and I was pleased to hear the Social Democrat rapporteur address • and that there are also measures against gambling. I have to admit that this is also reflected in the draft law here, but perhaps we would like to see a little more concrete examples of what preventive measures might be involved when these two state companies are now merged into one. The second point I would like to mention is the part concerning the risk of cross-subsidisation between the two companies being merged. The consultations also show that there may be a risk of transfer of funds from one company to another. And it is important for us in the Left that the merger here does not lead to cross-subsidisation and thus can distort competition with other players in this market. But in the Left, we support the bill. We look forward to further work on the bill. And then I had to bring a greeting today from the Conservative People's Party, which announces that they also support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222185451	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is from the Radical Left. Here you go, Mrs. Kathrine On Saturday.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222185512	Thank you, President. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the most important policy area at all, namely taxation, which I have said on a number of occasions in all quite rightly terms is the fifth element. After we have wind, fire, land and air, we have treasure. So welcome to the Minister for the fifth element. It is a pleasure and I look forward to your cooperation. Then, of course, we will start with a quite peaceful little bill, which is part of the entire game area that we are looking at together. I also appreciate the fact that the rapporteur of both the Left and the Social Democrats expressed a concern about the problem of gambling. We share that concern 100% in the Radical Left. But we have also been promised that there are different chapters and that there are different rounds of negotiations throughout this game review that we are doing, where gambling is at the very end and where we should look at it overall as an area and how we qualify it, how we make it professionally stronger, and perhaps even how we might be able to add some more funds to the area and make a stronger effort. In this context, of course, it will also apply to both the Danish Games and the Class Lottery, I imagine at least. So, of course, we are in favour of this bill, and I shall not take any more of the time of the busy politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222185647	Thank you for that to the Radical Left rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is from the Danish People's Party. Here you go, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222185706	Thank you. I'll be brief. There's not much new to contribute when you get further down the line. You have to get used to that. It is, of course, an agreement that we are part of from 30 June last year on, as I said, a merger of Danish Games and the Danish Class Lottery, and we think that makes sense. So, these are two state companies, and it is obvious that some synergies can be achieved in operation by adding them together. It is clear that when you do that, there will be some impact changes, and that is what we are taking into account in this legislative proposal. We can support this from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222185737	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. Here you go, sir. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222185749	Thank you. From here, of course, we must also welcome the Minister of Taxation. We're looking forward to the area. This is the area where we may have the very best. On this small bill with a full hall waiting in anxious excitement, I can say that we can, of course, support the bill in New Citizens. It's funny about these bills. Now I am a historian, and it is fantastic about such a lottery that has existed since 1753 and Frederik V. So it's nice to have a historian like me looking into it. Some questions were just raised about gambling addiction, and I understand that some may have a concern. I'm not so worried about gambling around the class lottery, because some of what characterises gambling is the urge for you to have to play and something like that. And I can tell you that the next draw in the class lottery is in 19 days. So if you have this urge for gambling, I guess it's not exactly this area that stands first. This does not mean that gambling is not serious and that you should not take it seriously in a large number of areas, but just when it comes to the class lottery, I am not so worried about it. But we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222185857	Thank you for that to the New Citizens' rapporteur. Then there are no more rapporteurs present in the Chamber, and that is why I now give the floor to the Minister for Taxation. Here you go, and welcome to the platform as Minister of Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222185917	Thank you. It's a pleasure to step up here as tax minister for the first time. Thank you for your kind regards. I do not know if I am Minister for the fifth element, but I must try to look at that. As I think one of the rapporteurs noted, it is true that it is not because there is such a crowded hall such a night here. And maybe it's not such a kiosk bastard of a bill either. Nevertheless, there is very good common sense and I would like to thank you for the positive reception of the draft law. As you know, the bill results in an agreement from last summer between the government, the Left, the Danish People's Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Radical Left, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance to continue working on the merger of the Danish Game and the Class Lottery, as has also been mentioned among the rapporteurs, to achieve a number of economies of scale, which means savings, and thus also a greater profit from lottery and class lottery. This is good because it benefits many good purposes. I have a past as chairman of the Danish Youth Council back in 2003-2007 and have helped distribute some of this money to the Danish association life. And I can say that, firstly, there is a very good need for them and, secondly, there really is a lot, very good work coming out of it to the delight of a lot of people in our society. The bill contains several amendments to the legislation necessary for Danske Game to offer class lottery after the merger and to ensure that the distribution recipients are not affected by the merger. With the merger, the Class Lottery will no longer be an independent company, as it will in future become a subsidiary of the Danske Spil Group. And as has already been pointed out, it is the plan here that the self-identity of the class lottery, and not least fire, is preserved. It is not only an expectation of an increase in profits for the benefit of the distribution recipients, which lies behind the proposal to merge the Danish Game and the Class Lottery. The state gambling companies have an important role in contributing to a balanced and responsible gambling market in Denmark. It is therefore also expected that the Danske Game Group with the merger will strengthen ongoing initiatives to promote responsible gambling, and thus also take the lead and act as a positive role model in relation to the other gaming companies. Responsible gambling requires strategic management and investment where a single company can create even better framework than today. In other words, it is expected that the merger of the state's two gambling companies can create economies of scale with increased profits for the benefit of the distribution recipients, while at the same time the merger supports even better frameworks when it comes to responsible gambling. In conclusion, I would therefore like to thank you for receiving the bill. I could see along the way that there were some attention points, especially for the Left, and I look forward to them also having our attention on the future in the legislative process. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222190237	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220222190249	Before the end of the sitting, I would like to say that today there has been another notification: Dennis Flydtkjær (DF) and René Christensen (DF): Motion for a resolution No. B 101 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the establishment of a tax commission for a simpler income tax system). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 23 February 2022, kl. 13.00. I refer to the agenda which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
