ParlaMint-DK_20220304100005	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Katrine Robsøe (RV), Ulla Tørnæ (V), Astrid Carøe (SF), Victoria Velasquez (EL) and Gitte Willumsen (KF): Request no. 44 (What is the government's attitude towards the distrust of students in higher education in the country, and what initiatives does the government consider necessary to strengthen the well-being of students in general, and how does the government work in this regard? ) The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20220304100034	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is Henrik Møller from the Socialists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304100039	Thank you for that, President. One might say that this proposal is what one might describe as a small change, but it is something that can have a huge significance. The Danish sports association's life is unique. It is an important gathering point for our children and young people, and it gives them the opportunity to take part in the important and addictive community that we have. There is no doubt that it is important for all of us in this Chamber today that our children and young people can, of course, take part in this community safely. Fortunately, there are already rules which help to ensure this security. This is true, for example. the rules for sports clubs and associations to obtain children's certificates on the trainers and volunteers they want to hire or engage in the clubs. With the legislative proposal that we have to deal with, we are strengthening that security by responding to a solution that has also been sought by the main sports organisations. The aim of the draft law is to enable the Minister for Culture, after negotiation with the Minister for Justice, to lay down rules for the police to inform the Sports Exclusion Board when the main sports organisations obtain child certificates with remarks. The child certificate is a personal document which provides information on whether a person has committed sex crimes against children under 15 years of age. As it is today, sports associations have an obligation to obtain these child certificates when a person is to be employed or engaged in sports associations. When children's certificates are received with remarks, there is an additional obligation to inform the Exclusion Board. The exclusion board shall have the power to exclude persons with annotations on the children's certificate from joining sports associations. And that can only be done when children's certificates with remarks are handed over to the board. It is the case that 340,000 children's certificates are obtained annually. In 2020, 149 were obtained with annotation, of which 24 were in the field of sport. But out of these 24, only approx. 4-7 cases before the Exclusion Board. The jury's work depends on the associations submitting these children's certificates. With this bill, we are changing it in such a way that the Exclusion Board will no longer depend on whether the local Sports Association informs the Exclusion Board. In addition, the police's orientation of the Exclusion Board will provide an overview of whether local associations are making problematic assessments. Our Danish sports life is unique, and it provides the framework for some important and rewarding communities. Our children and young people must also be able to take part in this in future. With this bill, we're taking an extra step to ensure that. That is why we support the bill from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304100329	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Stén Knuth from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304100351	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. It is important to ensure a good framework and a secure environment for our children and young people, especially when they use our sports associations in the world of association. Therefore, there must also be a thorough monitoring of the collection and assessment of child certificates. In the past, it has been the responsibility of sports associations to inform the Exclusion Board if child certificates were obtained with remarks. We're gonna walk away from that, and now it's gonna be the police who's gonna tell us what's going on. This gives the main organisations a better overview of the child certificates obtained outside sports associations, and it also removes a burden from sports associations, and they no longer have to be in a situation where they ask themselves: should we now also inform them? Isn't that just an overreaction? Shouldn't we be able to handle this ourselves? The bill here ensures that the information always reaches the name. Fortunately, few children's certificates are obtained with remarks in the associations, but when they do, it is important that the associations are well dressed for it and that they can get advice and guidance from the Exclusion Board. With these words, the Left will vote in favour of the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304100459	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304100516	Thank you. It is so extremely unhappy when children and young people experience violations, and that is why we in the SF are constantly working on how to protect children and young people in the best possible way. Once the accident has occurred, we must be ready to respond to it, so that, firstly, we can put an end to the violations. Of course, the attacker must also enter the judicial system, and there is a trial for it. Secondly, we must also ensure that this does not happen to others. It should never be the case that young people experience violations when they engage in leisure activities and, in fact, never anywhere. But the reality is that this is happening, including in local associations, and this has also happened in recent times. In this context, we have seen how difficult it can actually be for the associations to deal with it, and we are therefore pleased that there is a tightening up in this area with this bill, so hopefully the cases will be reduced. The proposal proposes that the police should inform the Sports Exclusion Board when the local associations of the main organisations obtain child certificates with remarks. That is good, because with this change of rules we support the sports supervisory body and create a protection against violations in sport and society, for which we in Denmark are so well known and which we must continue to be very careful. In SF we are also willing to go further than that. We would very much like to provide even better protection for children and young people. We have suggested in the past that we should set up a task force under the main sports organisations to help associations prevent, advise and deal with infringement cases so that we can get rid of them. It is not an easy matter to stand out there for local volunteers, and that is why we should support them even more with it. We are also willing to work with other initiatives that can help children and young people in these situations and, in fact, also the local associations where they have experienced insulting behaviour and where they experience violators who also tour around some of these associations around the country. I hope that the Minister will take up that work. But with those comments, we support the bill in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304100748	Thank you very much to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304100758	Thank you. I was completely confused that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur was standing next to it, because there are therefore successive changes in order. So I thought: what has happened in my party during the night since we've gone down the line of speech? Fourth Vice-President I'll keep him away). That's good. After all, we are here according to the size of the party, and now there are many parties that have lost some members along the way, and then you go further down on the list of speakers. It's just to explain it. So it's a little swinging where you're in the line of speeches. I shall be relatively brief with regard to the legislative proposal, because of course we fully support this, i.e. a tightening-up in this area with clear procedures, which we give the Minister the power to draw up. I would like to say, now that I have the opportunity to stand here and talk about child abuse in this case of sport, that this is something we have seen about, not only in relation to sport, but, for example, in relation to sport. in the field of culture too. We have had the much-discussed maiden cross trial, which dealt with young girls, young women who have been violated in their time in the choir. There have also been other cases. I have had the opportunity to discuss it with them, and what has been completely surprising to me is that in some of these elite environments, where children and young people come to perhaps get really good at a sport or to sing, just not being taken care of the children. Now we set it up at sport, but compared to an institution like the Girl's Choir I know that the DR is now taking care of the matter itself. It surprises me that we do not actually have rules about how well-being studies are being carried out, that educational training is required and that children have rights, just as adults have rights. This is therefore a very good first step on the road, but I think we should generally try to look through all our legislation in order to focus on the areas where children and young people are together around something that they are really happy about, but where there may also be a very tough environment and in this case you look up to the sports coach; it may also be the choir leader. Do we have the protection needed to ensure healthy environments? This is about excluding adults who have committed serious violations and who have something on the record. But we have also just seen environments where children and young people come, which are toxic; toxic, because there has been a sexualised round, or toxic, because there has been bullying or hetz. We should just not allow such environments to exist around children and young people. That is why I now took the opportunity to talk about something that is not just in the bill, but I did so because I myself had the opportunity to meet representatives from the Girl's Choir a few days ago. And I was somewhat shocked that we don't have a better protection for our children when we send them into these elite environments. Having said that, we must, of course, also safeguard cultural and leisure activities, which also exist largely on the basis of voluntaryness and commitment. Of course, we do not need to impose a lot of bureaucracy, but we really do have a responsibility to ensure that these are healthy environments in which children become skilled, but also environments where they become happy and have a good wellbeing in participating and engaging, so that it is not the reverse that happens, as we have unfortunately seen in the world of sport, but indeed also in the world of culture. These are rules that we have to a large extent when it comes to education, childcare and so on, but we have not quite created the same security and security when our children meet in sport and culture. So in these words, I would like to say that we support the proposal and, in general, are very concerned about the issue, in terms of how we ensure our children and young people in sport and culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304101211	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304101220	No, there has been no change in the number of candidates for either the Radicals or the Enhedslisten. We continue to imitate other parties in this respect, at least at this stage. I am just really happy when my colleague and I stand down there, because then it will be quicker for the President to make things slip. And then you can have a little non-alcoholic drink in the form of a glass of mineral water before you go to the platform. That's the big service we have there. L 119 is an important supplement. It should be safe for children to go to sports clubs and participate in sports and not experience abuse. We must do everything we can to ensure that. And I agree with the rapporteur of the Radicals that this is not just a matter of sport and sport; it is a matter of all places where young people are at risk of abuse. We are in favour of the proposal. For Enhedslisten, it is of course extremely important that we put an end to the sexual abuse of children and young people. The most important thing is that we should be better able to prevent abuse and abuse from taking place and, above all, that formal obligations to secure child certificates should actually be used to reduce child abuse. With this bill, we are strengthening the notification mechanism so that abuses can now be even more prevented. That is why the bill is good, and we strengthen the mutual trust and security in the many good sports communities that are for children and young people around the country, and which are, of course, very good for children to participate in. In individual cases where information should not be provided, there is no guarantee in the law today that it will be verified whether the associations fulfil their obligations. We cannot accept that. That is why we are pleased to see that the draft law can help to ensure that we can protect the children. DIF, Danish Company Sport and DGI mention in their hearing that they are also positive about the bill, but Enhedslisten can also see the problem raised by DIF, Danish Company Sport and DGI, namely that the bill envisages that the police can pass on information to a non-formal legal entity. For Enhedslisten, it is important to ensure that it is the right legal entity to receive information and information that associations obtain a children's certificate with remarks. Therefore, it is important that police briefing should go to the appropriate legal entities, which can also act in this area as well as advise member associations. That is why we would like to raise this issue in committee so that we can ensure that orientation is formally in the right place. We look forward to the further examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304101543	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304101552	In Denmark we have thousands of volunteers in our association life, and that's a great thing. It's the lifeblood in large parts of Association Denmark. That is what is the glue in many of our communities where people can meet. Thousands of children meet both to have fun and to do sports or just to be together. But there are also a few that we do not want as employees or volunteers or as trainers in society, and that is one of them. People who have been convicted of sexual abuse. It is important to protect our children and young people that we take care of it and ensure that they do not sneak in somewhere where it is not very appropriate. That is why it is a good thing that there is a legal basis for the Minister of Culture to be authorised, together with the Minister for Justice, to lay down rules so that they can be excluded. In this case, as has also been mentioned, it is the Exclusion Board that gets an information about it when there has been such a child certificate which has been misplaced. Perhaps we can then also hopefully ensure that the main sports organisations can give better advice to their associations, but can also exclude those who are not supposed to be there. So we kind of agree with the purpose of the bill. I wonder, however, why there should be a legal basis for the Minister to be able to fix this later by means of a decree. Why don't we just make it clear by law now? Can we not just say that the police should inform them instead of giving the Minister the power to say that the police should do so? Why do we need to get that extra link in? I often wonder, too, that when we have to set something by law, people have to read the law; then there is a reference to an announcement; then you have to find it and also read it. If we all agree that this should be the case, I guess we can just make it clear now. So perhaps the Minister can say something more about why we should give the Minister the power to do so later. Why don't we just do it? If we agree on that, we should just be able to put that nail in now if you can use that picture on it. Then there is another thing, and it is also one of the things that Enhedslisten has mentioned, namely why we do not direct the main sports organisations of the sport, i.e. Denmark's Sports Association, DGI and Danish Company Sports. Why should it be the Exclusion Board that gets the orientation, which then has to move on to the main organisations, which then has to move on to it? Why don't we just give the message directly to the main organisations? That is something they themselves mention in the answers to the hearings. I think it has more to do with it. It is not, of course, because I disagree with the purpose, but it is mostly the practical thing in it, i.e. where it should lie. So I would also like to ask in the committee's work why there is no direct orientation of the main organisations instead. Maybe the minister can say something from the platform, or maybe I can get it in writing later. I'm happy with both. So we fully agree with the purpose, but of course we are curious, in relation to why we are not just stating it by law now instead of a decree, that is, the last part I mentioned, that there should be a direct briefing to the main organisations instead. But we are positive about it, so that is more of a minor detail, I will consider it as we want to have a look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304101833	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are just no brief comments. Then it's mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304101838	Thank you. I'm always happy when my good colleague from the Danish People's Party gets curious. There's usually something good to get after there. Let's just get a good answer from the minister. I am sure that some consideration is also being given to this. Then we can finish it, and we can all go on weekends with a calm mind and quiet body. New citizens can easily support this. It's about the safety of children. It's about how they can thrive safely in our sports life, and I don't think anyone can disagree with that. We must, of course, ensure the framework for this. Then I understand on Enhedslisten that there's alcohol-free water over there, and that's great. Sometimes I could think that I may have come 30-40 years late in the Folketing, because I have heard that there was a slightly more funny alcohol policy in the old days in the Folketing than there is now. But it may be good enough, after all, that there are things that have changed. But new citizens can easily support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304101929	Thank you to the rapporteur of the new citizens. I can assure you that there has never been alcohol in the Chamber. The next on the list of speakers is the Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304101948	Thank you for the floor, President. And thank you to the number of rapporteurs who have expressed support for this bill. It is absolutely essential to me, to the government, to the social democracy, that children and young people should be able to participate safely in sport. We are already helping to ensure this through the rules that sports clubs and associations must obtain child certificates on the trainers and volunteers they want to hire or engage in clubs. With this bill we then go one step further: sport will have even better control over the area by means of the bill. And it is a control which they, I believe, are also asking for; it is very much driven by the demand of the sports sector itself. With this proposal, we are strengthening the joint control mechanism of sport in the form of the Exclusion Board for Sexual Violations. More specifically, as several people have also mentioned, the proposal must ensure that the Exclusion Board has the right knowledge to deal with problems, and in this way we should very much like to create an even better and more robust safety net for children and young people's daily conduct in sport. Our sports associations are, after all, a foundation stone and a very special and very important foundation in Danish society and society at all. At the same time, we also have a very special form of organisation in sport when compared with the rest of the society. There are some strong main organisations which have entered into close cooperation in several areas, including: Here with the kids' certificates. Specifically, the sport's three main organisations, DIF, DGI and Danish Company Sport, have together established this Exclusion Board for sexual abuse, where they have one representative from each of the three organisations, and the aim is to create a more delicate network to prevent children or young people from being offended when they are in our sports life. We are now calling for the rules to be changed so that the police are obliged to inform the Exclusion Board when one of the members of the main sports organisations obtains a child certificate with annotations. It could be a local sports club or sports association. This means that sport's control efforts will be an even better protection against violations of children or young people. As several people have also said, the role of the Exclusion Board is such that, by virtue of their internal rules, local sports associations are obliged to submit cases relating to persons with a children's certificate with annotations to the Exclusion Board if, despite the remarks, the association nevertheless wishes to engage or hire the person concerned. The exclusion board shall then decide whether the association may employ or engage the person concerned. If the Sports Association does not submit the matter to the Exclusion Board, the Association risks excluding the Main League. However, with the police direct briefing of the Exclusion Board, it will no longer be possible for sports associations not to submit engagement and recruitment cases to the Exclusion Board without the Exclusion Board becoming aware of it. This is because the Exclusion Board will be informed of the association's obtaining a children's certificate with annotation already when it happens. Against this background, sport's main organisations will be able to contact and, in the worst case scenario, sanction sports associations which do not themselves inform the exclusion board of recruitment and recruitment cases where persons have children's certificates with remarks. To sum up briefly: The break with this bill is that the Exclusion Board will no longer depend on whether the local association informs the Exclusion Board. In addition, the police's orientation of the Exclusion Board will provide an overview of whether local associations are making problematic assessments. This is a solution that has long been in demand for sport with the support of several humanitarian organisations, so I welcome the fact that this can now finally become a reality. A number of questions have been raised along the way by the various rapporteurs, and several of you have mentioned that you will address them in committee. I think that is a very good way forward. So, of course, the very concrete organisation has come into being in close dialogue with the main organisations, but let us finally hear if there is input on how it can be tackled, either in relation to law and regulation or how the procedures will be. So it is simply an indication from my hand that this can be done because sport is organised as it is and because the three strong main organisations have organised themselves with an Exclusion Board and have asked for it. From my hand, it is not a signal that it is only in sport that we should be careful and look after our children and young people on the contrary. As several speakers have also said, this is important wherever our children and young people go. This model is just not easy to transfer directly to a number of other areas. But let us at last continue the dialogue on how to safeguard our children and young people against violations, whether it is in sport or elsewhere in cultural life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304102513	Thank you to the Minister for Culture. No one has asked for brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304102531	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Møller of the Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304102545	Thank you. I had actually wondered at one point whether I had the opportunity from the platform to say: to be or not to be. It is the case that when you come from and are born and raised in Elsinore, you have been born and grown up with Hamlet's castle, Kronborg, which has had a huge impact on the cultural heritage, history and identity that at least a great many citizens up in the northern corner of Zealand have with them. I think this is a little related to the fact that cultural heritage and history help define us as human beings. It is the case that our common cultural heritage is the foundation of the society in which we live today. It tells us about the past, but it also tells us about the present and the future and thus says something about who we are. Our common history must be accessible to all Danes. The legislative proposal we are now considering is an attempt to contribute to it. In June 2021, the then Minister for Culture set up a working group to make proposals for concrete amendments to the Museum Law. The changes should, on the one hand, enable physical dissemination measures to be carried out in protected memory memories and, on the other hand, solve a number of other challenges with the existing Museum Law provisions on the protection of ancient memories. The draft law has been drawn up on the basis of the recommendations of the working group and consists of six parts overall. Firstly, it is proposed to increase transparency for citizens when dealing with requests for derogations. Therefore, it is written into the law which conditions are given positive weight in the treatment of exemptions. In this way, it will be easier for citizens to gain insight into how and with what reservations these derogations are being dealt with. Secondly, there is the possibility of carrying out physical dissemination measures for a limited number of past memories if the changes support the availability and dissemination of the memory for the benefit of citizens. Thirdly, it must be made easier for the Danes who live in ancient memories. Therefore, it must be possible to grant more exemptions to changes to protected memory memories which today have a use that is not part of the original function of the ancient memory. Fourthly, it is proposed that in future changes of minor importance can be made to past memories without applying for a derogation. It can involve setting up parasols, benches and the like. Fifthly, the automatic protection for 100 years of ancient memories listed in 1865 or later is proposed to be changed. Thus, the decision on whether or not to protect an ancient memory listed in 1865 will be based on a specific professional judgement. Finally, it is proposed, sixthly, that a cultural heritage department should be set up under the Danish Environmental and Food Complaints Board, where experts should participate in the handling of complaints about the decisions of the Danish National Board of Culture and Slots on exemptions. All in all, the bill thus helps to ensure a better balance between, on the one hand, the ability to communicate the history of our ancient memories and, on the other hand, the continued protection and preservation of the memory of the past, so that future generations also have the opportunity to experience our common cultural heritage. Social democracy therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304102916	Thank you very much to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Stén Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304102927	Thank you for the floor, President. In the Left, we want to preserve our ancient memories, and we also want to open the doors so that more people can see our history and our cultural heritage. Our common cultural heritage has enormous value for understanding the past, but also for the present we are in and the future that is coming. That is why the Left wants our common cultural heritage to be more accessible to everyone. The draft law here gives us a more transparent derogation process, because it must be easy to see what the emphasis is on when an exemption is sought to change a memory of the past. This will make the derogation process easier to understand, and it will make it easier to make changes, to the benefit of dissemination and accessibility to our ancient memories. But there must also be a balance, because our cultural heritage and ancient monuments must be taken into account, and communication and accessibility must also be taken into account. Everyone must have the opportunity to enjoy and benefit from our cultural heritage, which we share, and in the Left we welcome the introduction of a small limit for changes to ancient memories. In this way, we avoid unnecessary processes and can instead focus on what is important, namely to enjoy and benefit from our common cultural heritage. There should be no doubt that the Left welcomes the legislative changes here very much. With those words, I would like to say that the Left will vote in favour of the bill here, and I should like to welcome Conservatives and say that they will also vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304103056	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304103100	Thank you. In this context, I would like to thank the Left for not having to go through a brutal and meaningless construction law, as you had announced earlier this week. I have still not understood that a party such as the Left, which at least says in words that they will protect the memory of the past, could even use such a brutal law as the construction law in this area. I believe that it should be completely out of the question to use a construction law when it comes to ancient memories. But what is the reason why the Left could even use a construction law in such a case?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304103145	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304103146	Thank you. I am happy to comment and to discuss with the questioner in another context a proposal on which we are not going to comment today. Here we have to comment on the possibilities that a revision of the museum law and not a construction law indicates.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304103205	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304103207	I fully agree with that, but in the negotiations the Left has repeatedly threatened to use a construction law if they did not get their way in these negotiations. That is why it is a natural question to ask the rapporteur and therefore to say: what is the reason why the Left can consider a construction law at all possible in connection with this law? I will explain later why I am against it. But I would like to hear the explanation of the Left, because they themselves have had a proposal on this very week.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304103240	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304103241	Thank you. I'd be happy to have a cup of coffee with the questioner next door when we're done dealing with the bill here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304103250	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Charlotte Broman Mølbæk from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304103308	Thank you. Today, we are dealing first with a change to the museum law, which must ensure a better balance between conservation and dissemination. The bill doesn't change the fact that it's still really important to take good care of our past memories, which is important for SF. There must certainly not be free access to all kinds of changes, but there must be a good balance and a better balance. The Museum Law is now a slightly older matter, and it is therefore also important to have it updated. It must be updated to suit the time we have today, and it must, because the dissemination of our history must teach us where we come from, and we must understand how far we have really come. History is so important for the understanding of ourselves and the present we are in. It's important to all of us. It is important for new Danes; it is important for people with disabilities, young and old. Therefore, it must also be possible to ensure that there is equal access and accessibility to the ancient memories so that everyone can experience them and learn from them. With this change of law, we are creating a better chance of achieving a balance that suits the conditions we have today. In my optics it must be possible to set up a handrail on Bette Jenses Hyw on Fur and set up other things that are reversible, which will actually increase availability. An important element of this is that we're talking about actions that are reversible. This means that they are not permanent, but can be removed again, so to speak, and then we have the original memory of the past. In addition, it has also been very important for us that we strengthen the Environmental and Food Complaints Board with specialist people in this area. That is why we are very pleased that a cultural heritage section is now being set up in the list. This is important because it is inappropriate if we politicians in Christiansborg believe that we know best what the good solution is. In fact, we are not the most competent here. We are politicians, we are setting a framework, we are making legislation, but we are not professionals, and it is the professionals who know best. It is they who can best assess whether the right balance between conservation and dissemination has been achieved. They are therefore also the ones who have to make that assessment. We hope that this will lead to better dynamism and development in this area. With those comments, the SF backs the bill and looks forward to the upcoming committee work on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304103554	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304103605	Thank you. This is probably one of the most elaborate legislative proposals I have ever had to take a position on, and that is a very good thing, because it is also an important matter to protect and look after and communicate our memories of the past. The basis for the bill we are presenting today is of course a committee work, and I do not really remember whether it was the case of Nyborg Castle directly that led to the committee work, but there have been several cases where you have not been allowed to change the past memory, but do something: put up a sign, make a staircase, make a communication point around the memory of the past, which may have been just as restrictive. That is why we set up a committee to look at how the right balance is between looking after past memories, that is, not changing them, but still making sure that those with difficulty can also get up to a high level or doing things that make it easier to communicate cultural heritage. Because I feel that culture is not worth much if you do not communicate it. It is certainly not worth much to us and our generation if it just lies there and we do not convey it. Conversely, we cannot really make ourselves masters of future generations, so we can have a view of how we cultural heritage is something we should be careful of. The cultural heritage is something we convey, but cultural heritage is also something we pass on to the next generation. That is why I think it is very good that a good balance has been found in the committee work between looking after the past memory, but in a way in which we can also communicate the cultural heritage in a way that we can make it accessible to everyone in a way that does not impose restrictions on how posterity will convey the cultural heritage. This balance was found in the work of the committee. In the end, it is a political decision, but I am very pleased that a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament has chosen to take up the committee's work because the committee has been made up of people who have been working on it for many years. It has been a discussion among museum people who work with cultural heritage for many years, when there is both the view that we should not change anything at all and that the cultural heritage is as it does, and that we should also see that time is passing and monuments are falling together, and then they must lie there, and we should not change that, and another extreme, where we have to resurrect things, so that they look like they did in the old days, etc. etc. There, I think, we have found a very good middle position, in which it is important that we should not make changes to the cultural heritage which, so to speak, we cannot turn back if there are new generations who have a different view of how to communicate cultural heritage. On the other hand, it just isn't worth anything if it's just lying down and falling down, and in the end you can't even see that there was once a ring fortress here, or whatever it is we're talking about. That is why we think it is a very good balance. It is a good balance that the museum people have found, because they have also disagreed, and it is very good that a broad majority in the Folketing also supports the balance and nuance on which the bill is based. So with those words, I would say that the Radical Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304103936	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304103945	Thank you. And it was no coincidence that I asked the Left what they think; they have had a campaign going on that they would already make a construction law in Nyborg a year ago because the Nyborg Castle project was overruled in the mention. And it is one of the most brutal kinds of laws we have, so that is why we need clarity in relation to the fact that a party that we may risk becoming a government-supporting party might use such laws in connection with our cultural heritage. This is quite unacceptable in my view and we must find a way to prevent it. We must take good care of our cultural heritage and protect our ancient memories. It is important for Enhedslisten that we maintain that the fundamental principle of the Museum Law is also in the future to protect the ancient memories and preserve them for posterity. And we must maintain the principle that there must be no change in ancient memories. Within this framework, of course, we must ensure that there are opportunities for dissemination, and I am really glad that there is a technological opportunity for this, and we have seen that in many museums close to ancient memories we can use the latest digital possibilities to promote a real experience of going back in time and actually live in the time when the memory of the past played a role. It therefore makes it easier for us to avoid the scandals that we have seen in which past memories have been violated which could not be traced back again. This agreement states, among other things, that the parties agree that the fundamental principle of the Museum Law should continue to be to protect ancient memories and preserve them for posterity and thus ensure that future generations also have the opportunity to see and experience our common cultural heritage. Therefore, the general principle that no changes should be made to ancient memories is maintained. That is absolutely the most important point of this agreement, and it is also at the top of the deal. Then it also says that changes must be reversible. This means that if you ensure that people with disabilities have better access to a memory of the past, it must be able to be traced back to the original state. If you do such things, it must be professionally justified and promote a better understanding and experience of the past memory for the public. This means that it should not be commercial shows and attempts to make money from past memories. It must be professionally justified and it must promote understanding of the memory of the past; ancient memories must not be the scenes of anything commercial. A Cultural Heritage Department will then be set up in the Environmental and Food Complaints Board, which will associate two experts with professional insight into the cultural area and will deal with the same type of cases which are currently being dealt with in the Board of Appeal. I believe that this will be a strengthening of the decisions that have been made, and that means that in an example such as what we saw in Nyborg, we will be given a much clearer message than we have been given into that case. We cannot know that, because it is not us politicians who should sit in the mention, but I believe that it will not be possible to take as much action as has been done in Nyborg. It is also important for Enhedslisten that the contract circle agrees that the Museum Law's possibilities for exemption, and not least the appeal possibilities, must be fully exhausted before anyone starts to avail themselves of the more brutal construction laws. In our opinion, it should not be possible to apply construction laws in the field of museums, but we have not been able to secure a majority for this agreement. But we will continue to work on this, because we believe that there should be restrictions on the very, very brutal way of working in relation to construction laws. Why do I say that? I say that because with construction laws you can push aside all sorts of other laws and say that here we want a highway or here we want a house lying or here we want to make a town. And that means, for example, that... The museum law can also be pushed aside by a construction law. We think this is quite unreasonable, and there we have to try to have some limitations on the possibilities offered by construction laws, and it will seek to obtain a majority in favour. Otherwise, we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304104424	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304104432	Thank you. This bill is really important; it is many of them that we are dealing with. But this proposal is really important for the Danish People's Party, because it is about our common cultural history, our common cultural heritage and the preservation of ancient memories, and it is also about when to grant an exemption to make changes to them. I think that is incredibly important. It is based on an agreement that the Danish People's Party is not part of, but it is only because we wanted to wait for the hearings. So, from our point of view, it is at least a bit the reverse world that you do something that affects such big things and then shake hands with each other before you deal with this in the Chamber before we get the hearing answers that you will vote for it. So there we think that the right order is to get the consultation answers beforehand. So that's why we're not in the deal. The starting point is, of course, that there can be no change in the memory of the past, and it is, of course, an important basic principle that they should not be changed, but with this some more clear exemptions are being written into the law, and that is something that we think can be sensible enough, because we also admit that there may be a need for derogations. There is, for example. I should also like to mention the bunkers of the Second World War in the proposal. Should we keep them all? But there may be a railing on a burial mound, so you can't actually come up and use the viewing post, so there are some places where exemption makes sense, but we will insist that the basic principle must be that there should be no change, and then we can take it from there. With this, it's going to have to be a concrete assessment in the future, but it's a little unclear what it is that's on the basis of this specific assessment. I don't see it right now from the draft law. I think that a clear strategy is needed to protect the cultural heritage of recent times and that this is perhaps something that can be done subsequently in a cooperation between the Committee on Culture and the Minister for Culture, because I think that there is a lack of a description of what are some ancient memories that should then be designated forward-looking with this bill. In other words, I have yet to establish a clear strategy: there must actually be restrictive practices, fair enough with derogations, but on the basis of which it must be restrictive. Then there is another change I would like to mention, namely that it is proposed that changes of minor importance can be made. At the outset, it makes sense for subordinates to be able to change things, of course, but it is also suggested that the rules on this should be laid down subsequently in a notice. I think that why don't we just make it into the law, so there's clarity about it. Because I think it's a little different how we perceive subtle things when it comes to our past memories, and I fear that it can turn into such a slippery slope, so that small things can be taken at the beginning, and then it becomes a little bigger things, and perhaps in 20 years' time it has become something you can suddenly say about the subordinates and that it doesn't matter. So I'd really like to, actually, if you could be a little more clear about it. It may also be that we can settle for that in a matter of ministers in committee, I do not know, but the concept of subordinate to it is a little fussy. What's in it? I do not think that is quite clear. Then there is a third point in the draft law, and that is the creation of a cultural heritage department in the Environmental and Food Complaints Board with two experts in the field of culture. I think that makes sense. Now I have not been a cultural rapporteur for so long, but I think that this is the source of this Nyborg Castle case, where part of the criticism has also been that it was the Environmental and Food Complaints Board that had to deal with the complaint, because why do people who are dealing with food and environmental matters now have to deal with a matter of a castle. And that's where I think it'd be great if you could do a department like this. I think it may help to take some of the pressure on these cases if there is an understanding of it and some experts have some knowledge of what has dealt with the complaints. In fact, I think that is quite good. So overall, we really think that there are many positive things in the bill. We hope, however, that we will also be able to establish, perhaps by the Minister here from the platform, that it still has to be restrictive. I mean, fair enough with dispensations, but we shouldn't run and change our past memories. That seems to be absolutely crucial. It is possible that some derogations should be granted, but it should not be the standard that just dispensing from these things, and I hope that the Minister can confirm this from the platform. I have already submitted a number of committee questions to which I look forward, of course, to an answer before we finally take a position on the proposal, but otherwise we are fundamentally positive about the content.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304104842	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304104845	But I cannot quite understand the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The Danish People's Party took part in the first parts of the negotiations, and we actually saw the interesting thing that the Danish People's Party negotiators agreed with Enhedslisten that we should stick to a slightly more conservative attitude towards the memory of the past and that we got the first point of the voting agreement as something important, namely that the fundamental principle should continue to be to protect ancient memories and preserve them for posterity and therefore maintain the overall principle that no changes should be made in ancient memories. What is the reason why the Danish People's Party feels that this is wrong? Afterwards, when we got the answers to the hearings, we were some who wrote to the Minister to say that we wanted to be sure that this, and that in the hearings, was covered by our agreement. Otherwise, we'd have it in the deal. And there is such written confirmation of this, which means that we actually have the guarantees that will enable us to keep up with the Minister that the reports that have been submitted through the consultation answers must actually also be respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304104953	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304104954	Thank you for the question. Then I must not have made myself clear enough. I think I said many times in my speech that I still think there should be a restrictive approach to it. Derogations should not be the norm, but they should be specific cases. I think it is crucial that we do not keep running and changing, but we also admit that there may be a need for derogations. But it's not something that has to be given quite often if it's up to me. Well, there has been one on Fur, I think it was where there was a burial mound, where you put a handrail on the stairs, which was already there fair enough, you can live with that if you can change it back again, so it hasn't done any damage to the memory of the past. So our approach is still gone, and I think I said that many times in my rapporteur's speech that it should be restrictive and that it is important that these things are not constantly changed. Mrs Zenia Stampe was, in fact, also talking about something that is essential in that discussion. It may be that we are taking account of communication now, but what about in 10 years or 20 years? Then it's another way to communicate. Then it won't work if we've done fundamental damage to the ancient memories we have. So I think we should be very careful about making derogations. They may be there, but it must be a restrictive approach to it. And that is what I hope to see in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105059	Thank you. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105101	But I didn't ask, because we don't disagree on that. I asked why the Danish People's Party did not enter into the settlement and helped to make the actual vote agreement. That is what the rapporteur started by saying, that is to say, it was a strange procedure. Well, there was a vote agreement where there was a great deal of opportunity to influence it and where we actually influenced the process. And the Danish People's Party endorsed the criticism I made, among other things. gave of the first draft. That is why I am surprised that you do not go along with the process and then say: well, that is actually good enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105136	Thank you for the question. This is because we thought that when it is something that is heartblood for the Danish People's Party, it was a little strange that you make a vote agreement whereby you commit each other to vote yes before you have the hearing answers. Well, I actually think it makes sense, and we should perhaps do it more often, that we reserve the right that we actually hear what all people who know about it out there and have been working with it for decades now see that the bill needs to be amended. And then, in the committee procedure, when we deal with it, we can try to change something. Or maybe you just say "yes" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or "no" or But I do think that the right way to do this is to wait and hear what people who actually know about it think about it, and that is why we reserved that right by saying: we do not want to be in an agreement in the first place, because we would like to see what the professional knowledge out there says.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105214	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105230	I shall be brief: new citizens cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105233	There were no brief comments. The next one on the platform is the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105237	Thank you very much for the floor, President, and thank you to the rapporteurs for your comments, but also for, I think, a very good course and some good discussions along the way in the negotiations. Past memories concern all of us. Their presence in our country reminds us of the very past and also tells us something about history, that is, what we come from and what we as a society are rounded up by. That is why it is extremely important that we preserve and protect our ancient memories. That is why it is also important for me to stress that, with this law in particular, we continue to uphold the important principle of the law that fundamental changes should not be made in ancient memories. However, it is also maintained that exemption must continue to be possible. The main aim of the draft law is to ensure a balance between protection, dissemination and accessibility. I believe that an important, not to say crucial, part of the conservation effort is that we can convey our past memories and make them relevant to the population, because in this way conservation efforts can gain legitimacy and popular support. As many people as possible must be able to experience, understand and enjoy our common cultural heritage, but at the same time, of course, we must also take care of our ancient memories. When changes are made, they must be considered here in the Danish Parliament, and it is also a reflection on the comments of the Danish People's Party rapporteur. This work has actually been long-winded. We set up a working group of experienced museum people with in-depth knowledge and experience of the rules of the Museum Law on ancient memories. The draft law we are discussing today reflects the very concrete recommendations made by the working group in the autumn. I therefore believe that there may be good reflections on how much consultation answers are being taken in, but exactly in this process we actually started with the parties who knew the most about the matter and took the political discussions on their backs. Let me briefly summarise the overall content of the legislative amendments. The aim of the draft law is to make the derogations more transparent and comprehensible to citizens by entering into the law which factors can be given positive weight when assessing whether exemptions can be granted for changes in the past memory. It is also possible to implement more comprehensive, visual and physical changes for a limited number of past memories, if such changes are considered exceptional to support the dissemination and accessibility of the past memory for the benefit of the general good. In future, it will be possible to grant more exemptions to changes in protected memory memories, which today have a use that is not part of the original function of the ancient memory, in order to meet private residents and public needs. In short, the intention is to make everyday life easier for the Danes who live in ancient memories. In future, changes of secondary importance may be made to protected memory without first applying for a derogation. It can, for example, be done. be seasonal installation of loose garden furniture and replacement of smaller plantings. In addition, it is proposed that automatic protection after 100 years be abolished for past memories built after 1865 or later. Instead, they will in future be protected by specific communication after a specific professional assessment. That change prevents, among other things: automatic protection of a large number of plants from World War II, in other words, the entire west coast of Jutland is in principle protected. Finally, the Environmental and Food Complaints Board will be supplemented by a separate Cultural Heritage Department, which will be associated with two experts who will participate in the handling of complaints about Slots and the Danish Cultural Authority's decisions on exemption in the area of past memory. Since the law is so important to our ancient memories and our common cultural heritage, it has also been very important to me that several parties are behind the amendment of the law, and that is why I am very pleased that together last December we were able to reach a broad political agreement on the amendments to the Museum Law. I look forward to a very good and constructive discussion of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105657	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105700	I say thank you. I would like to ask the Minister whether it would be sensible to give the Board of Appeal a pure name which signalled that this is about ancient memories. There are several people who, when I have been out discussing these things, say that what does the Food Complaints Board have to do with such things at all; it has nothing to do with it. And then they immediately think that there are some people who know something about food and what you put in food and things like that. Couldn't you change that? I agree that we are now strengthening the professional content, but it would also be sensible for the citizens to signal that it is actually a board of complaints dealing with ancient memories, so that we give clear and clear signals and avoid those stupid discussions about whether we are really wise, that is to say to let such people or women decide such things.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105757	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105758	Basically, I do not want to interfere in the overall approach to the mention, as it does not belong to the Minister for Culture, but I would like to stress the importance of those who sit and help assess exemptions when it comes to our ancient memories and come to this area, so also have knowledge within the area. So I'm gonna stick to the part we're gonna include with this bill, namely that we're expanding with some competences. And what they then call the name, Enhedslisten, I think, must travel in proper fora.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105829	Here you go. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105830	But now I have confidence in the government that sits, in other words that they have an overall picture of things and that they also ensure that citizens can find their way around the complicated system that may exist. I would therefore like to ask the Minister himself to take the initiative to call it the Board of Appeal a former memory or something similar and associated with what we are actually talking about. The other is called a false trade description with a small glimpse in the eye.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105900	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105901	Thank you. The proposal has been noted, although I do not remember that it has been brought forward in the months we have been sitting and negotiating. But it is certainly noted that it is the wish of the Enhedslisten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105912	Thank you. The next brief remark is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105915	With this bill, things aren't automatically protected after 100 years. There it must be after a specific announcement of a place and after a specific professional assessment. I would like to know whether the Minister does not agree that there is a little lack of a strategy as to what sort of things are going to have to be dealt with here and assessed. And can the Minister put some words on what needs to be emphasised in this specific assessment? I sincerely fear that this can start to slip away. After all, we can now sit in the Chamber and say that we agree on what the concrete assessment should be, but it may be something else in ten years' time. Then it may be that the communication suddenly weighs twice as much and not the preservation of it. So how do we ensure that this restrictive approach is maintained when it is just such a fluid concrete assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105957	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304105959	Thank you. It is clear that it makes some additional demands if you do not have an automatic conservation of things. I think it is wise that we should not do so, but that we should assess, for example. The bunker facilities individually and see what is most important in history and then protect those who are actually to be protected. But it is clear, as the rapporteur suggests, that it just requires extra reflection on what is actually to be protected. It is a work which must, of course, be done with great respect for the general line that I would like to emphasise that I find that the Danish People's Party has, but which I would also like to emphasise that the government has. I think the rapporteur in his speech is asked whether we should run and change past memories. I would like to stress that this is not the government's line. It hasn't been in the process of this work either. That's also why this bill has come to us on the basis of a solid committee work with the people who actually have their hands at the bottom of this and have the greatest knowledge of what it is that has great historical significance in Denmark. That is still the line we are going to take and the line that I am quite sure the professionals with in-depth knowledge of the area will put in the further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110104	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110106	I am quite sure that the Minister for Culture does not just want to change it, I would say just to lay it down. That is more where we will be in five years or ten years' time, because practice often moves away. And what will be practice in five years? Will it be something else? Mrs Zenia Stampe also said so in her speech. It may be that the consideration of communication is quite different in 5 years or 10 years, when something else would be important to them. So how do we ensure that you have the restrictive approach when it does not happen automatically? That's what I'm afraid we won't do. In other words, a concrete assessment is very fluent, and I fear that it may have changed in five years' time. Could it be an evaluation clause that you put into the law that we're looking at this in four years or five years? Could that be an option, after all, so you just stopped and then where we're gonna end up with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110146	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110148	Thank you. In relation to what was also said by Mrs Zenia Stampe, I also find that the emphasis here was on the reversible. I would also like to stress that once again, the government has a crucial role to play, that is to say, that the things that we are now putting in and for which there is a possibility of exemption, for example, are being made reversible. It is important to emphasise, because then we do not take the future hostage, then we do not take the next generation's approach to ancient memories as hostage, after how we are now experiencing things. So it's completely fundamental in many of the things we're dealing with here. But it is clear that the restrictive line in general is continuous, even in spite of the fact that we are now loosening, for example. for the purposes of dissemination.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110228	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110250	The debate is open, and the first thing I want to say is to speak to Mr Beazley on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Henrik Møller, rapporteur for the Socialist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110300	Thank you. I guess you could say that 15 years is a long time. And it is true that the smiley system that exists now in the field of health and safety is 15 years old, and it can be said that part of what is under the supervision of the Factory Inspectorate has changed over these 15 years. This means that there has been some criticism that the smiley scheme was not fair and that it does not necessarily support a better working environment. There you can then continue as you have done before, but you can also do what the Minister for Employment did in 2020, namely ask the Working Conditions Council to come up with a proposal for a rethink of this scheme, and it is the case that the Working Conditions Council has proposed that a fact-based viewing system be put in place which will apply to all companies. So the starting point is that we should very much like to have better supervision, but also better information about the working environment that individual companies can use. This is a development that we in the Social Democratic Party welcome, and that is why we must recommend the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110416	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Anne Rasmussen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110427	The bill replaces the current smiley scheme with a new, fact-based viewing scheme. It welcomes the fact that the smiley scheme has a number of challenges. We have seen examples of companies with a poor working environment that get a crown smiley, despite violations of health and safety regulations. At the same time, there are examples of companies that have received a yellow or a red smiley on the basis of a single decision. When we are met by a yellow or red smiley, it is obvious to conclude that the company has a generally poor working environment, although it may be a snapshot. Let me make it clear that all decisions on the working environment must be taken seriously. The problem with the smiley system is not the quality of control or control in itself, but the fact that the smiley system does not give a true picture of the working environment in a company. We must prevent the new display system from inheriting the same problems as the smiley system, and this means that we must ensure that the new display system is credible. The Labour Inspectorate is the State's supervisory authority and it is important that there is transparency in relation to the decisions taken by the supervisory authority, in particular because it concerns the employees' working environment and the company's external face. Against this background, the Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110602	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Halime Oguz of the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110620	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the Government for bringing forward this bill, which follows up on the proposals and recommendations of the Working Conditions Council. The aim of the bill is to replace the current smiley scheme with a new fact-based viewing scheme, which will cover all companies. This is very sensible, as the current smiley scheme does not meet its objective of making companies' working environment visible and motivating Danish companies to work for a high standard in the working environment. On the contrary, there have unfortunately been many misunderstandings about the green smiley, where you have often got the wrong idea that the working environment in a company is really good, but later it turns out that it is certainly not. We believe that it is quite right to change the procedure for the publication of information on the working environment of companies, so that greater transparency can be achieved in the supervision and decisions of the Factory Inspectorate, so that interested parties in the public have the opportunity to clarify the state of health and safety at work. The draft law helps to create a more transparent and better regime, which is why we in the SF naturally support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110734	Thank you very much to the SF rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Samira Nawa from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110744	Thank you very much. Since 2004, the Labour Inspectorate has published the results of their inspection visits to companies in the form of a smiley scheme, but that scheme is not appropriate to continue. There is, on the one hand, a bias in which companies are selected for supervision and, on the other hand, only a snapshot is shown. So in the Radical Left, we support this modernisation or rethinking, and that is to say the introduction of a new system, which is a fact-based viewing system, which allows better supervision and greater transparency and transparency. So we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110828	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Juhl of the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304110837	The Labour Inspectorate is doing very good work. They control the companies they can reach within the framework they have. They can visit companies about once every seven years, and there you can almost figure out that there are quite a lot of bad things going on. That is why it is good that we also have a health and safety organisation in the companies. Unfortunately, only half of the companies have to have a health and safety representative who has one and many of the health and safety representatives do not have access to proper training. So we have a working environment that is worse than we have to say that the workers in Denmark deserve. There should be much more control, there should be much better work in the daily working environment out there, and the health and safety representative should have much, much better conditions in order to solve the problems for his colleagues. It is a scandal that we have 60 000 occupational injuries a year 60 000. Every year there are people who get hurt and have sick days, sometimes suffer permanent damage to their health and, unfortunately, in some cases also die from going to work. That is not acceptable. For many years this smiley scheme was introduced, which means that you can get a so-called smiley as a target inside the website. Either it's red, and it's quite unacceptable, or it's yellow, and that's the kind of bop-bop, I think you need to do something about that. And then there's the green one. Then a very strange thing was introduced, namely a crown smiley, and it meant that one belonged to the elite. Approx. 4,000 Danish companies that came to belong to. In this way, I should like to emphasise and say that the Labour Inspectorate passed that company, because they could do everything on their own. Then we had a study which showed that the average working environment level of the 4,000 companies with kronsmiley, which was to belong to the elite, was worse than the average for those who were down in the ordinary smiley scheme. This means that the elite did worse work on the working environment and had a worse working environment than the others. And then everyone can see that it is actually counterproductive to have a system that frees those who have the bad working environment. That is why it is high time we removed the scheme called the smiley scheme. It gives a quite false picture, and there it is more important that the Factory Inspectorate comes out. But when we stop that arrangement, we should also ensure that there are enough staff. The Labour Inspectorate is doing a good job with the people they have. They have really good people, but they have everything, too few. We have to make sure that there are enough people in the Factory Inspectorate, so it is their work that makes changes happen when things are really wrong. And then it is their visit that means that action is taken. This does not happen in enough cases today, and there are too many people who slop on the working environment and who do not care about the lives and working conditions of their employees. We need to stop that, which is why we need to find more money. Unfortunately, when we go out of this year, it's up to 40% that gets cut on the Labour Inspectorate. It is a totally untenable situation in which we have asked the Minister whether we can have a plan to ensure that we do not lose people in the Labour Inspectorate, but that we actually get them back up again. For the superficial things with smiley schemes cannot be used for anything; it is the specific supervision system where people come out and control that works. What if it has to be cut by 40%? This is until January 1st. If we do not change it and give clear signals that the staffing of the Labour Inspectorate must, of course, be improved, I fear that the good people will go out and find another job because they risk becoming unemployed for New Year. So there are many tasks to be tackled here as we talk about the smiley scheme, but I am glad that the smiley scheme is now being removed. It should have been so many, many years ago, and we are some who have criticized it over all the years for being precisely misleading and a wrong arrangement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111306	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Lars Boje Mathisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111313	It's just for what the rapporteur says about adding more money to the Factory Inspectorate. Here I am curious to hear: Was it a claim from the Enhedslisten to the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111321	Yeah, it was. There are about 700 employees in the Factory Inspectorate, and our proposal was that we should initially reach 1,000. Right now, it's not about more employees, it's about securing those who are there. And at the next budget debate, we should be able to get back up gradually, because there have been many more employees in the Factory Inspectorate, and the employees in the Factory Inspectorate have been both more skilled and stronger than they are today. Another problem is that the workers in the Factory Inspectorate have too little access to continuing training so that they can keep up with the new technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111351	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111354	Thank you. However, according to the rapporteur, were more funds allocated to the Labour Inspectorate on this financial law?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111403	More funds were provided, but everything, far too few. That is why I point out that both quantity and quality must be raised in the Factory Inspectorate. I came to put it in that way that the Minister for Employment was born in the name of the wheelbarrow, and it is later used in many other contexts. In this case, the government and the Ministry must be both lifted and pushed to move forward, and it is important that there are many of us who are pushing for us to go the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111429	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Niels Flemming Hansen from the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111439	Thank you very much for that, President. There's no reason to drag this out of the way. We have nothing against a new labelling system and really think it is a good idea. In relation to the working environment, we must also recognise, if we look at the companies, that a good working environment is also a competitive parameter that we must strike at. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111502	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111518	Thank you. There is no doubt that the working environment is important and that we need to do a lot to ensure that good work is done on the working environment around here. Today we are talking about the smiley scheme in this area, which will soon have 20 years on the back. In its time it was in a way a motivation for many companies to do something to get that green smiley. Over time, there have been various problems, and therefore there is a desire from several sides to have a new and updated system. Of course, it makes sense to look at the system. After all, the whole purpose of a system of publication and information on the working environment of companies is to motivate them to make an effort to keep the working environment in order and to exhibit those companies that do not. However, publication must be so transparent and informative that it gives as real a picture as possible. And it is the assessment that the new system better and more precisely describes the working environment of all companies visited by the Factory Inspectorate. That is why we are just looking forward to the work of the committee and we expect ultimately to be able to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111619	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next speaker is Mr. Lars Boje Mathiesen from New Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111625	Thank you. Basically, we are positive that we are getting something done about the smiley regime that we, at least in many areas, think is wrong. So this is a step to that, and of course we're positive about that. There has then been a debate about the Labour Inspectorate, and when I return to the Finance Act, I certainly cannot see exactly where this extra money has gone, but perhaps we can get an answer to that in committee. So basically, we're positive about this. It is a step in the right direction. Perhaps we should look at the smiley scheme more generally, but it may be more in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy at the end of the day. But it could be clever to look at it because some companies out there are getting very squeezed and risk getting bad publicity on a very, very slender basis compared to some of these things. So if we go one step away from the smiley scheme, we're positive about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111719	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111725	I understand that the rapporteur of the New Citizens' Party cannot see it at the moment. That was one of the things I discussed with the Minister. However, it is important to look both at the number of posts, the number of project positions, but also at the net amounts allocated to it, and there you have to go down to some small decimal places to see the improvements. That is also why I complain that we will not have a faster development of the Labour Inspectorate. So it's really good. After all, we have had a number of technical reviews over by the Minister on various issues relating to the changes in the health and safety strategy that took place a few years ago. Among other things, there are: also a desire from more than Enhedslisten that we strengthen the Factory Inspectorate both quantitatively and qualitatively. So let's try to have a talk on the committee. It could be that New Citizens would be involved in allocating more money to the Labour Inspectorate. I'd be very, very happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111818	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111820	Okay, I think we'll agree with the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111826	The next one on the platform is the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111836	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions during this debate. After all, the bill that we are discussing today is about replacing the Factory Inspectorate's current smiley system with a new fact-based viewing system. The bill is based on a proposal from the Working Conditions Council. The purpose of the display scheme is to achieve greater transparency in the work of the Labour Inspectorate. The display scheme will cover all companies visited by the Danish Labour Inspectorate and will show the Factory Inspectorate's supervision and decisions on the individual company. The display scheme will help to support the work environment and preventative work and motivate companies to act on decisions of the Factory Inspectorate. This will help to support the Government's desire for a safe and healthy working environment in the Danish workplaces. With that I would like to thank you for your comments on the draft law and I look forward to a good and constructive discussion of the proposal in the Employment Committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111937	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304111940	Well, I'm really happy that the Minister has taken this initiative. I agree with those who say that a red, a yellow and a green light belong in a traffic intersection, and there is only one thing to decide: should you hold back or should you drive forward? The working environment is more complicated than holding back in a traffic intersection. Therefore, it is good that we get a more accurate picture of what are bandits in the working environment and what are those who do it properly and what are those who need help. This is how we usually divide it into three categories. That is why we need to have many more words when we need to be able to act and see where it is we need to put in place. I would like to ask the Minister why it should take so long. It is, after all, several years since we received the report that showed that the crown smiley scheme was directly misleading and actually showed that the elite in the working environment were on average inferior to the rest of the companies. Why would it take so long? Could we not have a practice in our amendments to the health and safety rules, which enabled us to correct errors and shortcomings relatively quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112052	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112055	I believe that the brief explanation is that, as we do on a large number of questions concerning the working environment, we have given the Working Conditions Council the task of contributing with a professional attitude and, hopefully, also a professional attitude which is discussed by the parties and on which there is agreement. We think this is a good tool for making changes not only in the field of health and safety but also in a large number of other areas of the labour market, because it then reflects the different considerations and differences and nuances that exist, seen with workers' eyes and employers' eyes. It must then be recognized that it has taken some time for the Working Conditions Council to reach a common position.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112143	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112147	I understand that it will take a long time for the Working Conditions Council if this is something very complicated, for example. the psychological working environment that we discussed for a whole year before we received a special announcement about it. Because it's new and it's complicated. I could understand it if it was about new chemical substances and substances and products that affect each other. It's also pretty complicated. And of course you have to have experts in and you have to assess how best to protect yourself in the working environment. But one thing as simple as the smiley scheme, which takes up a few lines: what is the reason why you can sit and snoop with it for years before you get to this, because everyone knows that we have to decide that it doesn't work with the old smiley scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112231	First of all, it is clear that work has also been delayed to some extent by the fact that there is a global pandemic that has ravaged. There are several courses, including in the Working Conditions Council, which have been delayed for this reason. The second is that, although we now have the attitude and therefore also the draft legislative amendments, it may look simple. However, after the minutes I have received, it has not been quite simple for the parties to reach agreement on what exactly should be recommended.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112301	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. And since it is not, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112326	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bjørn Brandenborg from the Social Democrats, who are rapidly on the way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112336	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. The draft law here is intended to ensure that the current temporary regime, which expires on 1 July 2022, is made permanent. This means, in practice, that students with a disability may receive special educational support without the prior limitations of the SPS Act in relation to the support framework, study time and maximum delay. It is common sense that educational seekers can receive support throughout the course of the training without being restricted by rigid rules in the law. This ensures that those seeking training with a disability can carry out their training on an equal footing with other applicants for training, who are or are not in a position to do so. At the same time, I believe that it will create great security for the individual that the system is no longer temporary, but that the law is permanently changed. Overall, this is a sensible solution to the end of the temporary arrangement, which we are pleased to see as a broad support for here in the Folketing. So, of course, the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112441	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Astrid Carøe from the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112503	Thank you. I just got confused that there wasn't anyone from the Left here, but now I'm here. As the Socialist rapporteur said, the draft law we are discussing here is something that should be a matter of course: that as a student you can receive SPS without limitations in the support framework, study time and maximum delay, so that students with disabilities can complete their education on an equal footing with other students. For this group of students, it is an indispensable arrangement which is essential for the student to have peace and prosperity to focus on study work and, above all, the possibility of completing the programme. The law has not been designed in this way, and therefore the urgency procedure was good, and it is good to have the permanent change now. However, it also gives me the opportunity to say that we in the SF do not believe that we are in favour of supporting students with disability. We have, of course, together set in motion a work which we in the SF have great expectations of. There are many low-hanging fruits that will make a difference for students, for example. that students are made aware of opportunities for support before study start, or that the teaching material is clearly sufficient time to use your aids. Then there are improvements which require resources, but which one might also wonder about are not already in place. One of them is that the economic insecurity that arises when you get extended your study time but do not at the same time get extra su-clips. We believe this in the SF is problematic. Actually, it should be a matter of course. After all, we recognise that the student is unable to complete at the prescribed time, and that is why the extra su-clips should automatically follow. So I will look forward to discussing more when we follow up the disability policy agreement in the spring. With that I can say that the SF supports the proposal, of course. We just don't think we're quite there.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112658	Thank you very much to the SF rapporteur. We are just jumping around in the series of speeches and I give the floor to Mrs Ulla Tørnæs from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112715	Many, many thanks to the President for this flexibility, and I apologise that I did not just get to the Chamber, but the previous points took a little less time than I had expected. When, in May-June last year, we dealt with a temporary solution to the SPS legislation, I think I was so bumpy that I called the clean-up, as the bill expressed, a clean-up in a huge mess. Before finding the temporary solution, the legal situation surrounding SPS was described in such a way that the rules had not been complied with, that the rules were inadequate and that the rules had to be changed temporarily. It is therefore also gratifying that, with the legislative proposal we are considering here, we have now arrived, in full agreement, at the permanentisation of the temporary solution that we implemented last year. This is good news, I think, for students with disabilities, that after 1 July of this year they do not risk losing SPS to parts of their training period because of the rules on the support framework, support time and maximum delay in the SPS Act, much praise to the Minister for it. And, of course, we support permanentisation. We do not want to create any kind of uncertainty for students who are currently receiving SPS. We do not want to administer blindly; on the contrary, we want to establish a legitimate and necessary legal basis so that there is no doubt as to who is entitled to receive social education support in higher education. The left can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112906	Thank you very much. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Katrine Robsøe, and then we are back in the normal series of speeches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304112919	Thank you. As has been said, this draft law really corrects a mistake, I think we can call it, in the previous legislation, for which we made a temporary derogation before the summer holiday, and it is only right that we now have it permanently, so that students with disabilities will actually be assured of what support they can get and that it will not disappear. That is why, of course, the Radical Left also supports the bill here. As the rapporteur for the SF also mentioned, there has been a briefing meeting now on some things in the area of students with disability and what steps we can take to actually ensure that we get more people on the training car and that we ensure that more people are allowed to have their dreams fulfilled and take the education they want. However, there have not yet been any serious negotiations, and we are certainly looking forward very much to the fact that we are actually moving on to some of the proposals that are there. In addition, there are a number of proposals which do not even cost a great deal, but where we can do something to ensure that more people can come along and benefit from our education system. This is both for the benefit of our society, and it is very much for the benefit of the individual as well. So, with those words, I would just like to say that the Radical Left naturally supports the draft law and we look forward very much to the negotiations that have to take place. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304113053	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then I'll look right out into the hall, if there's one from the Enhedslisten. There isn't. Nor is there anyone from the Conservative People's Party. Then we move on to the Danish People's Party, and that's Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304113128	It's amazing how little an interest there is in this bill, on the part of a number of rapporteurs. That's quite interesting. Last summer we were faced with an acute problem with the SPS, namely that the award practice did not turn out to follow the law, which was given more help than was permitted, and that is why, in broad agreement, we implemented an emergency law which allowed that practice to continue, and then there was to be a real new law. During the discussion in this Chamber, the minister at the time said the following: then we will also hand over the fact that, when the temporary legal framework expires, we will sit together and find a lasting political solution to this arrangement, and indeed it is my view that we are starting from what is in force today, but I do not want to anticipate the overall negotiations and the overall discussions on it, because I can also hear that there are various rapporteurs who would like to carry in other things and have a wider discussion of it, and I think there should be room for that. When we received a note in October about these proposed legislative changes, I wrote to the Minister to be sure that we had the wider discussion about the SPS before we had to stand here today and negotiate, and to that the Minister replied: A few of you have noticed that, at the same time as your support, you want to be sure that there will also be an opportunity to discuss other aspects of the SPS system that will potentially also require a new legal amendment. It is true that some discussions have been started in this area, and that is really, really good, because there are many parameters in this, but that we do not have those discussions with the SPS until we have to adopt this legislation, I wonder. In January, I asked the Minister in this Chamber during Question Time whether he would like to respond to what the previous Minister said, and the current Minister actually said: I would say that I would very much like to enter into dialogue with the rapporteurs if there are any specific features of the scheme which we believe should be improved. There will be an opportunity in February in connection with the follow-up to the disability policy agreement, where we can specifically address issues related to the subject here. We can do that. I would also just like to remind you that, when it was announced that it would be permanent, I made it clear that it is not excluded that we can take further discussions on it. Then I also tried to get the Minister's answer to whether we could at least agree that, when we make these changes, we could ensure that the students could get this help from the first day they start the study. And the Minister replied to me: I am aware that this is one of the things that has been discussed, so let us discuss it too. That is why, at first reading, I would just like to call for a debate to be held in committee on how we can ensure that it will actually be a real opportunity and a guarantee for students that, when they start their studies, they will also be able to receive this help from the first day of study. It goes without saying that if you go weeks, months in a study without having access to the right aids and support, it will be harder, and then there are some who fall out, and that is really, really a pity, and we have to deal with that. So I hope that we may already be able to get an answer to that today, but otherwise, at least in the context of the work of the committee. Otherwise, of course, we support the improvements contained in the current legislative proposal. It is clear that we should not cast doubt on the students that it will, of course, be carried through, but I hope that we can take the other one. In the follow-up to this, I can see that the comments on this draft law also say that there is a parallel problem with su, because now it will be the case that you can actually be entitled to SPS for a longer period than you are immediately entitled to su. Nor is it reassuring for students who should be sure to be able to complete their studies with the necessary help and su necessary. So there I would like to urge that we get hold of that discussion too and get hold of how we can ensure that students who expect to spend extra time in their studies also have a right to su during the time of study prescribed for them. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304113546	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304113600	Special educational support in higher education is an individual compensation. The aim is to ensure that students with physical or mental impairment have the opportunity to participate and complete their education on an equal footing with others. In the spring of 2021, it was then found that the SPS for higher education students was not administered in some respects in accordance with the law on special educational support. The present draft law has therefore been put forward with a view to ensuring a permanent solution. In New Citizens we welcome the bill. We would like to support a legislative proposal to ensure that the temporary arrangement is made permanent. Thus, students with disabilities in higher education can also receive SPS after 1 July 2022 without limitations in the form of support frameworks, support time and maximum delay. I and New Citizens would like to give all people with disabilities a uniform and good access to education. Overall, I am convinced that it will be cheaper for society to create a better system to provide the right help for students with functional disabilities. It may end with win-win, where both the individual with disability, the relatives and the rest of society get something good out of it. New citizens can thus express their support for L 139.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304113721	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And now I'm looking right out into the hall for the Liberal Alliance there's no one from there. There is no one from the Free Greens either. However, as the Conservative rapporteur has arrived, we are showing extra flexibility and giving the floor to Mrs Gitte Willumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304113800	As a new member and new rapporteur I have been enriched with lots of material from my party colleagues; there were large piles of papers that were handed over. The last bunkers I went through last night, and a fine little press release appeared. It was published by the Danish Students' Joint Council, and they write that we are in a well-being crisis where too many students in higher education in Denmark are miserable and stressed. So they want us to make the 2020s a decade of prosperity, and I think that is a super ambition. With L 139 we come one step closer to that ambition. We know from studies that special students with physical and mental impairment are particularly challenged. With L 139 we allow students with disabilities to receive special educational support and, more importantly, they will have the opportunity to receive it throughout the period during which they are enrolled in a higher education which is eligible for funding. From the Conservative People's Party we support L 139. We share the Minister's ambition that people with disabilities should also have the opportunity to take an education and thus be able to become active in the labour market. It gives quality of life to be part of a study community and, in the long term, a working community. To get there, we need to do something extra for some students. As the priest's wife once told me at a citizens' meeting in our local parish, we have to treat people differently to treat them the same way. Unfortunately, the politicians who appeared took no note of that then, but I remember the sentence, despite the fact that my age at that time was only 15 years old. With L 139 we support that students with different challenges can get an education. The Conservative People's Party would like to support this and we look forward to the further examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304114011	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we are through the rapporteur's line, so we are giving the floor to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304114030	Thank you for that, and thank you for the broad support that we can now make the temporary scheme for special educational support for higher education students, also known as SPS, permanent. I would have expected it too, because of course we have spoken in advance and I know that we agree on this issue. As has been shown, in June of last year a broad majority of the Folketing adopted an urgent legislative proposal for a temporary amendment to the law on special educational support for higher education. It was a legislative amendment that allowed for a temporary period up to 1 July 2022 to derogate from the rules on the support framework, support time and maximum delay as a condition for receiving SPS in higher education. In this way, the Danish Parliament ensured that students with job reductions could undergo and complete their higher education with the necessary support and without being limited by how long they had already received support. And that came, as several speakers have said, on top of problems with the administration and the legal basis in that area ahead of it. With this bill, we will ensure that, even after 1 July 2022, where the temporary law applies, applicants for training can receive SPS, that is to say, support throughout their education. In future, the possibility of receiving support will not be limited by the length of time the student has received support or by the delay in his or her training. This is important for those seeking training so that they can carry out their training on an equal footing with others. In addition, with this bill, we will be able to provide access to some higher education courses with the possibility for students to receive SPS support for these courses as well. Thank you for the floor and for the comments. I do not know whether there are any questions raised about the process on which some comments have also been made, but otherwise I would just like to say something briefly. As far as the draft law here is concerned, and this is what we really need to discuss today, I look forward to further consideration, and I actually sense that it can go very quickly; there is very broad support for it, and I assume that there are also those parties who are not present in the Chamber today. But in addition, of course, there are other discussions that relate to this whole issue, and we will continue with them in this spring. Now it is important to get this bill in place and give it security for students with support needs, that is to say that we will be able to make this scheme permanent and that you will be able to receive support throughout your education. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304114303	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl. Minister for Education and Research I had the impression).
ParlaMint-DK_20220304114308	Thank you. I have to ask, of course, whether the Minister cannot acknowledge that today there is a challenge with many of the students with disabilities not being able to get this SPS help from day one in the studio. And if the Minister wishes to acknowledge that, what will the Minister do to ensure that we are able to secure and I believe that it is part of this law that it will actually be a real opportunity? This may require that you can apply for it before you apply for an education, that is, before you know what kind of education you need to enter. Will the Minister be prepared, whatever it takes, to do what is necessary to enable students from day one to obtain the necessary tools?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304114350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304114353	First of all, I would like to say that I do not think it relates to this law. I mean, this bill is about perpetuating the system now that you are sure to be able to get support during your study time all the way through, even if it lasts a long time, longer than the normal study time. I think this is important to get in place, and I would ask you to get it through the Folketing and give it security without having to be blocked by other relevant discussions. A discussion like that, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl mentioned here is one of the things I am absolutely convinced that we will be discussing in the discussions we will have over the spring on the whole area of disability policy and the whole area of support needs for different students with different challenges. I agree that this is a challenge for many. The rapporteur has been diligent to refer this to me. I've come across it myself. How that can be solved is one of the things we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304114506	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304114510	Yes, but then I think: what has been the promise from the Minister now? So I would like to hear: does the Minister recognise that we have a challenge with students who are not getting this help from day one? And will the minister undertake as a task we have to solve to ensure that students get the opportunity to get this help from day one on the studio?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304114533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304114536	So, I would say: the obvious challenge of this is for the student who needs this support, of course, that they also receive it quickly. That is why I also have a focus on processing time, i.e. the processing time, which is generally low and within the objectives that are for it, but which, of course, we should always ensure is as short as possible. If you were to change it and now we are opening up a little bit to what challenges it may be, it would also require that you start processing this kind of application before you knew if students had been admitted and at which educational institutions they had been admitted. Whether we can find a good solution to it and what it will require of administrative measures etc. is one of the things we must discuss together, and I am happy to take that discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304114623	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304114705	The debate is open and we shall give the floor first to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304114721	First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for highlighting a key issue: the importance of credibility and integrity in Danish research. Integrity, independence and credibility are essential for the research efforts of our research institutions and for high-quality research. High integrity in research is a fundamental prerequisite for research to support the ongoing development of society and to help us address the challenges facing us as a society. Integrity in research also plays a key role when it comes to the credibility and legitimacy of research in the population, and thus also legitimacy in relation to the large amounts of funding allocated to the area. That's why I think it's so basic that it's good to have this discussion and focus on those issues. I would also like to say this in the introduction when I would like to argue, moreover, why I do not think the proposal is a good idea and why I do not want to accept it, but the very fact that we have that discussion and that focus seems to me absolutely appropriate, and it is healthy that we should visit that debate periodically. How do we best support integrity and credibility? As I said, I do not believe that the proposal here is because, overall, it calls for centralisation. Any suspected breach of responsible research practices should be notified to a new central body, the National Research Board, which will also be responsible for assessing cases and taking decisions. This applies to all cases, both cases of dubious research practice and cases of outright scientific misconduct, where we are over in cases with increased seriousness. The mention should also make recommendations to those fields of research where there may be particular challenges in terms of the integrity of research. I do not believe that we increase the integrity and credibility of Danish research through centralisation and decoupling from the research environments. At the same time, in my opinion, this proposal will lead to increased and unnecessary bureaucracy being built up. That is why the government cannot support the motion for a resolution. I think it is important that it is the research environments that should ensure ongoing scientific development. It is also the research environments which, in their daily activities, have the task of ensuring responsible research practices with high integrity and high credibility. That is why universities, as one of their central duties, have to safeguard the freedom of research and scientific ethics and, moreover, to ensure responsible research practices. We have also attached great importance to the academic self-regulation that we expressed at the time of the proposal for adoption in a much-mentioned text in this Chamber. It must be allowed to work, and the confidence in it in the text of the adoption seems to me to be one of the authors of this proposal. When there is a breach of responsible research practice, I believe that today we have a both solid and effective system for dealing with individual cases. The current rules are fleeing closely with the recommendations of the Committee of Experts on Scientific Infidelity, which in 2015 made their recommendations, which by the way were implemented by the former bourgeois government with Søren Pind as Minister for Education and Research and adopted by all parties of the Danish Parliament, including the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, who are, of course, the proposers of the resolution today. Søren Pind stressed in his speech at first reading of the original draft law, among others. I would like to quote from the following: "The answer to the specific problem lies best with the institutions, and it is therefore the duty of the institutions to deal with cases of dubious research practice. Firstly, the allocation of responsibilities should contribute to an increased focus on responsible research practices within each institution. Secondly, the proposal will lead to a more effective handling of cases of actual scientific misconduct in the central board. Here the quote ends, but it could probably have continued, and the assessment that Søren Pind had then is an assessment that I share. I consider that the central notification and treatment of all cases of questionable research practices and scientific inequities will weaken the overall work of good governance and at the same time lead to an unnecessary bureaucratic setup with the risk of long processing times in cases which may of course be quite important to clarify as quickly as possible. The current local treatment of cases of questionable research practices ensures the important link with the relevant research sector environment and local work on research integrity in the day-to-day. The current local screening of cases of actual scientific infidelity supports the fact that the report for Scientific Integrity receives well-informed and relevant cases and can therefore go directly to the treatment of what they are actually set up in the world for. I expect universities to shoulder their important responsibilities in cases of breaches of responsible research practices, just as I have a clear expectation that universities will take very seriously their statutory duty to safeguard the freedom of research and scientific ethics. Moreover, I think it is rather special to assume that universities should refrain from promoting relevant cases of breaches of responsible research practices. We should not forget that a university's reputation, including international ones, will suffer enormous damage if it emerges that a university directly covers breaches of responsible research practices. The government cannot therefore support the proposal, as I said in my introduction, but I very much welcome the debate on the importance of integrity and credibility in Danish research. It is a few years ago that we got this code in this area, which everyone has agreed to, and I would like to say that this year there will be work going on, so that we can also revisit some of these issues and make sure that the code that voluntarily regulates it here is up to date and takes into account some of the recurring things that we must, of course, bear in mind when it comes to ensuring the integrity of research. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304115350	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304115407	Thank you. Now the Minister is talking about reputation and integrity, and at the same time he says that there is no desire for decoupling from the individual research environments. Our concern is, of course, that when the assessment of this is in the individual research environments, there is a risk that the local environment may not be judged as optimally as it should be assessed. What we want to do with this is what we normally charge a lot in here, namely to secure an arm's length arm for those who have to assess whether a particular research project is in order. Some of the discussion we have in many parts of society today is, after all, about a mistrust of what kind of strange research is coming. Why do they do one thing, and why do they do the other? How, then, can I be confident that in the individual small research community or in the small field, whether this is in order or not? That's where we need to get it lifted. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister why it is not supported that we really get arm's length in these cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304115501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304115504	When it comes to cases relating to real scientific infidelity, that is, where we are involved in something that is quite serious, with plagiarism and counterfeiting, etc., there is a central board for it, but which, of course, receives enlightened cases from the individual institutions. I think that the argument here is in a sense a mistrust of the whole system and of the whole tradition that we have of individual universities and research environments ensuring that the quality, integrity and professionalism of following science ethics and ensuring that the quality of research is maintained in everyday life. It is clear in the universities' own interests that they live up to it. It is, of course, as I said, to follow a very clear recommendation from the Committee of Experts on Scientific Infidelity, that the individual institutions have a clear responsibility and, of course, the duty to ensure that there is integrity and quality in research.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304115612	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304115615	It is very easy to say, but we also need to be reassured that this is going on properly. I sat in here with Esben Lunde Larsen when his thesis was under discussion. And there it turned out clearly in the course that depending on whether you were in one or the other faculty, there were actually different frameworks and rules of what was OK and what was not OK. It makes it weird when you're out in the community looking at something. And they say, is this really proper research? It almost goes without saying that if a smaller research environment is to assess whether things are in order or not, then it will be some other mechanisms; then it is the colleagues. We need this arm's length arm's length and to make sure that there's actually an overall level. I don't understand the Minister. After all, the minister's party also supported the V 137 almost a year ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304115706	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304115707	Yes, and I actually referred to that in my speech here because it attaches great importance to academic self-regulation, and therefore not to state responsibility for going in and assessing research or methods. We may have a discussion about this, but that is to say, there is a central board for cases of actual scientific infidelity, and in the smaller cases of more questionable research practice, the responsibility is local. You shouldn't be able to push that away. Nor do I think that there has been any good evidence here that we actually have the problem today, i.e. that the professional groups that are across the professions not only your own colleagues, but across the professional groups are not today able to assess it and ensure an integrity and a quality of research.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304115756	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you, Minister. We can go to the rapporteurs, and the first is the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Bjørn Brandenborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304115810	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor, and thank you for submitting one. That is a pity, of course. However, I would say that, at a time of misinformation and propaganda, research is an important place to find facts and evidence, and with the crises we are facing now, I believe that everyone can see the importance of world-class research. That is why I fully agree with the proposers when they emphasise that credibility and integrity in Danish research are important. With that said, as the Minister also mentioned, we already have an effective system to deal with breaches of responsible research practices, so that we and the outside world can continue to have confidence in research in Denmark. I therefore see no reason to fundamentally change the system. The current rules for dealing with cases are fleeing closely with recommendations from the Committee of Experts on Scientific Infidelity and, in fact, also with the discussions that we have had in the past in Parliament. I do not believe that centralisation and increased bureaucracy of the current system will lead to better research, perhaps quite the opposite. We therefore do not support the motion for a resolution. There are a few reasons for this. Firstly, there is the obvious fact that we have world-class research in Denmark, which is recognised internationally. This status is achieved only by researchers working every day to ensure good and responsible research and research practices. Secondly, this proposal will centralise local decisions. The current handling of cases ensures that cases are taken up in the relevant research environment and that work is continued locally on the integrity of research in the day-to-day context. Centralisation will lead to a complete decoupling of the research environments. Thirdly, the resolution creates more bureaucracy. The intention of Scientific Injustice is surely precisely that they should treat serious matters as scientific infidelity effectively. I do not believe, as the Minister also said, that more bureaucracy will help in the handling of cases. Finally, we have an effective system to deal with breaches of responsible research practices, so that we can still have confidence in the research being carried out in Denmark and we are therefore not voting in favour of the resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304120047	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304120050	The rapporteur is quite right that we have world-class research in Denmark, fortunately. We are very pleased about this, and we are very pleased about it in a great many contexts, and we must maintain and hold on to it. In many other contexts we are square on that there should be arm's length. There has to be arm's length when we grant research funds; there has to be arm's length when you say who should be able to do what research projects, precisely in order for it to be impartial and you are sure that it will be done properly. This proposal is about creating more arm's length to assess whether a research project is fair or dishonest, or whether there are some other problems with it, so that it is not just some in the environment that have to sit and assess it. Why is it that the Socialists will not support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304120134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304120136	Without having to repeat exactly what the Minister said, because that is exactly what the Minister said, I do not think centralisation would be the solution either. In general terms, I am very much opposed to centralisation of all sorts of other institutions too, but I do not think that centralisation of this area would be the solution either. If you look at how the different universities deal with this, it is typical of having representatives from different disciplines who sit with and assess if there are questions as to whether there are proper practices in the research being carried out. Then I just think we've had this discussion before. It is up to university management to ensure that there is free and independent research, that there is pluralism in research. We had a long and good debate on this not only here in the Assembly but also elsewhere. And I think that if we are to stand on what we adopted in the early summer, which is that it is the responsibility of the universities, we must also give them the mandate from here to ensure that this is the case in the future. Therefore, I do not think we should centralise this resolution and mess it up with all sorts of other bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304120240	Then it's mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304120242	So we just have to leave the decision out there. I wonder, because I hear the rapporteur in other contexts talking about arm's length and the importance of arm's length, that it doesn't matter in this context. Then we just have to leave it close instead of saying that we actually need to be 100 per cent sure of what is going on precisely to ensure credibility and precisely in the light of the debate that has also taken place, which in some contexts can create uncertainty about what is really going on and how it is going on, that we are creating a system of a real and proper income tax. Would that not be appropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304120317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304120318	No, because I really think that there has been a good debate on this too lately. I think that the new rector from the area I come from at SDU, Jens Ringsmose, wrote an excellent chronicle about what is happening in Berlingske, which is precisely about the fact that there is also a mutual agreement. When we give universities the confidence that it is they who help determine what is being researched and who is doing so, then universities also have a responsibility to ensure that it is proper research, that there is academic self-regulation, that there is pluralism in research, and the other things that we have also been around several times. There I have seen the confidence in universities that this is something that universities ensure that there is also a forward-looking approach. That is why I do not think there is any need for centralisation of that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304120404	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. And we can move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Ulla Tørnæs.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304120425	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this important debate. If I am to sum up such a card, the purpose of the motion for a resolution is to set up the National Research Board, as it is called. It should strengthen efforts to combat dubious research practices and scientific infidelity. The proposal is that this board should be anchored in the law on scientific infidelity and should carry out the work that is actually already being done in the individual research-based training programmes. In fact, I could merely lean on the Minister's remarks, which had some excellent references to my party colleague, Søren Pind, and what he did when he sat in the ministerial chair, but for the sake of order, I should like to make a few comments on the motion for a resolution. But I share the Minister's comments on the motion for a resolution very much, and I will explain that. The authors consider that it is problematic that it is today the research institutions' own practice committee which assesses whether a notification of questionable research practices and/or unruly research should be forwarded to the current Scientific Corruption Board or whether the research organisation itself decides and rejects the notification. As a consequence, the proposers consider that the present design is of particular disadvantage to researchers in small research areas where it can be seen as compromising for the collegial status of the reviewer concerned to submit a notification of a colleague's research to be assessed by the institution under which the researcher himself is employed. I note, however, that the proposers are not aware of the extent of this alleged problem, but that it is doubtful that the full extent of dishonest and questionable research is revealed in the current design. What this assessment is based on is not, however, described in the motion for a resolution. In other words, the motion for a resolution proposes to solve a problem which does not actually exist at all. I guess you're right to ask. I also note that the proposal does not imply any consideration that de facto treatment of unfair or questionable research practices outside the research institutions' own practice committees will mean that there will no longer be any obvious gatekeepers for notifications if all researchers are given the opportunity to appeal directly to a national research board. This could ultimately lead to an overburdening of the national board proposed in the motion for a resolution, thus creating long processing times due to several complaints. As far as I can see, the motion for a resolution does not provide any resources for how the Council should carry out such work. I finally note that the proposers have not considered examining the possibility of changing the legal definition of scientific infidelity, so that it can include several aspects of dishonest and questionable research, or in other words, putting other requirements on the list to strengthen it. The authors themselves mention the Danish Code of Research Integrity, which the research institutions lean on. This code could also be looked at further with a view to possible tightening up. For these reasons, the Left cannot vote in favour of the motion for a resolution as it has been tabled today. However, we are happy to enter into further dialogue to examine the extent of the problem raised by the authors of the motion for a resolution. I should also like to say on behalf of the Conservative People's Party rapporteur, Mrs Britt Baker, that the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal. Thank you very much for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304120904	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304120907	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am a little worried when the rapporteur says that there must be a gatekeeper, because I am worried about what that gatekeeper has to keep out of the gate. Well, this has to be about getting things out. I understand that one can problematize that we do not have a survey of the size of the problem; we have also wanted this before, so I am glad to hear the rapporteur give an assurance that the Left will help to push for such a study. For it is clear that it will provide the basis for saying that it is necessary here or to find out that it is not necessary at all. So for that matter, I would very much like to confirm that we are very much in favour of creating that. But to come back to the specific question: does Mrs Ulla Tørnæs not think that there may be a need for greater arm's length in relation to those who are sitting on the individual institutions now and must be gatekeepers in relation to the assessment of these projects?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121011	Like the Minister, who leaned on former Minister Mr. Søren Pind's speech here from Parliament, I believe, in fact, that the way it is organized today, where there is a practical committee dealing with the content of the complaint in question, in relation to what is being complained about those who have the greatest knowledge of the area, are also them, and I have then used the term Gatekeeper here, which relates to whether it is a matter that needs to be passed on in the system ■ is a way that in my view works and which we have no desire to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121059	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121100	So what I hear is that Mrs Ulla Tørnæs believes that those who are closest and have the greatest knowledge of each area are the best at assessing whether something is fair or not fair. And there I can just have a concern that we can be sure that at some point they are not so greasy into what they are now sitting and are experts that they have difficulty keeping the arm's length; that they have difficulty having the objective look at what they really are sitting and assessing.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121136	As I hope has emerged from my speech and also from my previous reply, I do not see the same problem as Mr Tugendhat. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl points out, and that is why I see no basis for amending the legislation either. The prerequisite for us to enter into any dialogue on changing legislation in this area is that there is a much greater knowledge of what the real scale of the problem is here. As I indicated, there is a slight feeling that the proposers are proposing a solution to a problem which does not exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121222	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we go to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mrs Carøe.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121231	Thank you. In Denmark, we have a proud tradition of ensuring high credibility when researchers prepare reports, find new knowledge and collaborate with others, and this is crucial to ensuring high quality research. It is important that there is a proper procedure to account for innocence, clean up researchers or the contrary, and that there is a process that has the support of all the researchers, public as well as private, who every day contribute to Denmark being at the forefront of the international stage. We believe in SF that Danish research already has that today. We are no longer going back to 2017, when we last discussed the procedure for dubious research practices and scientific innocence. At that time, the assessment was that cases of questionable research practices are best handled as part of the work of the research institutions and that the Scientific Inequality Board should deal with cases of scientific inequency • a clear division of responsibilities, which today gives each institution great responsibility and autonomy to define the framework and process for dealing with cases of questionable research practices, a division of responsibilities that gives effective processing times, because minor cases can be resolved locally, and a division of work that makes the Scientific Inequency Board receive well-informed and relevant cases, and the division of work I see no reason to change. I am fully confident that the practical committees on the institutions ensure that there is a sufficient basis for dealing with complaints concerning questionable research practices and that they fulfil their responsibilities in relation to the notification of cases. And I am concerned about the unnecessary administration that this proposal will provide. That is why I think it is a great advantage that it is anchored in the institutions. I do not see how a National Research Board should be able to have the necessary or sufficient resources to shed sufficient light on a complaint case, especially without it leading to lengthy processing times and an unnecessarily bureaucratic setup. Then I would just like to say in conclusion that I also very much disagree with the proposal for funding. At least we in the SF will by no means undermine the basic funds and thus the university's money for research and teaching to create a bureaucratic and unnecessary research board. So we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121501	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121504	Thanks for the speech. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether she thinks that we can be too close to anything to be able to make an objective and therefore correct assessment, for example. If you sit out at the individual institution near the individual research environment, so that some can actually say that the assessment that comes from there is not objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121536	Yeah, you can get too close. Well, we have to, for example. don't have people assessing their own work. I do not think that would be good practice. That's just not the way it is today either. As a general rule, the practice committees work at seven out of eight universities across the individual academic environments. So it is not a single academic environment that evaluates research work from the same academic environment. It just doesn't happen out there. So, yeah, it can happen, but that's not what's happening here.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121605	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121607	But now we have the discussion: what is happening and what is not happening? So I would like to ask whether the SF will support us making a proper mapping, so that we have a common basis for assessing whether there is a problem or whether there is no problem around there. Will SF be a part of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121625	Well, you had a very thorough work on this particular area, which you finished in 2015, and on the basis of it you made new rules in 2017, which the Danish People's Party also supported at the time, and this is exactly what we have today. And as the assessment is, that's what works best. And immediately there are not great challenges out there, so I think it is good that we have an effective system which is not very bureaucratic; there are not long response times. And then we have a board that is national and that can help in those cases where you cannot find out locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121701	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the Radical Left's rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304121709	Thank you for that, and thank you once again to the authors of the motion for a resolution for once again giving us the opportunity to discuss research in this Chamber. When I had my day-to-day walk at the University of Copenhagen, there were a long number of years when we started discussing the latest developments in the case with her brain researcher on a daily basis. Because the debate on scientific innocence and dubious research has always filled and is still filling up in the research environments, and it must do so. We must be able to rely on the research carried out and that the researchers who commit it do not cheat, because if it happens when scientists cheat, it does not just hit them. This can have major consequences for colleagues, for students, for employees and for the entire Institute, which can have its reputation damaged. Therefore, it is important that we focus on ensuring the quality of research and have mechanisms to deal with the cases of fraud and malpractice that may come. As a scientist, it is very serious to be accused of unfaithfulness, and so such matters must be handled thoroughly and properly. Today, individual research institutions must have guidelines on how to deal with these cases, and that makes sense, as different fields have different practices and it is important to have the right knowledge to deal with these said correctly. And, as mentioned above, cases can also be passed on to the Name of Scientific Injustice. The motion for a resolution here instructs the government to set up a new National Research Board, which, according to the proposers, should strengthen its efforts against dubious research practices and scientific innocence. That may sound very sympathetic, but as you know, the devil is in the detail, and I have a number of reservations. First of all, it is unclear why there should be a new bureaucratic layer that centralises these decisions. There is already a national board to deal with these cases, just as, as you know, all institutions must have a procedure to deal with them locally. It is not justified that the existing systems should not work. Are there examples of cases that do not go forward, complaints that are rejected, or systematic failures in the process? No. The proposal also envisages that everyone should be able to complain anonymously to researchers. Here, too, it is easy to see how such a scheme can be abused for harassment both by political opponents who may not share the researcher's premise, or competing researchers who would like to put a brake on a project. It is a violent charge, it is a violent charge, I repeat here as a researcher to be called dishonest, and therefore there must be some substance in such cases before one is pulled through the mill as it is. We must be able to rely on research, we must be able to deal with cases of dubious research practices, and I believe that the universities today do so and that we can do so within the framework that exists. This does not mean that there are no problems in the field of research today, but I see challenges on a completely different front than the proposers do here. In Norway, a study has recently been launched to look at the freedom of expression of researchers and whether there are challenges in relation to their academic freedom. I would much rather focus on that here in Denmark. So the Radical Left cannot support the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122031	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122034	Thanks for the speech. I know that we share the interest and fascination of research and the importance of research and that it is proper, impartial and serious. That is why I think we share the concern about it if there are problems. Then, of course, you can have the discussion, as we now have, of what we then do to make it the best possible. That's where I'm gonna have to ask sir. Stinus Lindgreen, if it is not conceivable that it gets too close when you have it, you could call it Gatekeeper function out at the individual institutes, who can say what is going on for a perhaps more thorough assessment. There may be some in the environments that actually confirm each other that this is okay, while if it came out and was looked at in such a more objective way and with more arm's length, a more objective and more uniform assessment of the individual projects was given.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122134	Thank you for the question. Yes, we fully agree on the importance of research and the quality of research and that we ensure that there is no unfair research. I just do not share the premise in the question put by the rapporteur. Today, of course, it is already the case that we have to set up a committee which does not have any conflicts of interest, and I have every confidence that we will do so out there. You should also remember that now we are in the political world here, where there may be a lot of conflicts • that there is indeed also in the world of research. There is fierce competition, and there are people who want to be in front of the others. So to think that just because it is out at the individual institute, so somehow protects each other, is a premise that I do not buy it too because, as I said in my speech, if anyone gets hit by cases of uncleanness, it's not just the researcher himself; it's also colleagues, it's employees, it's students, it's the institute itself, if it comes out that you cover up this kind of thing. So there is only one interest here and that is to get those cases uncovered and clarified as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122226	Sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122228	I can hear that we have a disagreement about whether there is a problem out there. Sir. Stinus Lindgreen is probably closer to the research environment than I am. I may have a different knowledge, and I can only look at it from the outside, but I would very much like us to be absolutely sure that what is going on is also right. So could we agree to do a mapping and mapping out whether there are challenges and whether there are problems on which we actually have the basis to assess whether we should change the system we have now?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122303	After all, it was not many years ago that a survey of the problem was made to see what to do, whether to correct it. I don't know if you acted on that basis. As I mentioned in my speech, I see the problem on a completely different front. I have no indication that there are cases of unfaithfulness that do not go forward, and researchers who cover one another up all the problems on which this proposal is based. I don't see it. On the contrary, I would rather look at whether researchers are hampered in other ways. Are there any attacks on their freedom of expression, their academic freedom? Is this something that we should be aware of, the institutions should be aware of? I think that's far more important.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122332	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. And we move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Victoria Velasquez.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122340	Thank you for the floor and thank you for another good debate. I think a lot of good things have been said up here from the platform, with which I agree. That is why I would like to make it brief and, in fact, just add to the fact that in the code that most parties have supported here, it explicitly states that those who have to deal with the cases of dubious research practices must be impartial and that they must have competences in the specific field of research. However, I assume that there will be some follow-up questions, and otherwise I also think that this is a debate that we must take on a regular basis. And what I hope we can have a debate on, and I actually see this proposal as part of this proposal, is the freedom of expression of researchers, and it is in relation to the possibility from Christiansborg to be able to crack down on research where the results do not exactly match what you would like. And I see the proposal as part of that overall package, which is why, of course, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122451	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122454	Yes, I almost have to do that with the call made by the rapporteur. Now that it is said that rules and paragraphs say that one should be impartial, it is not necessarily the same as that of those who then sit out there. Let's hope so. But what I really want to hear from the rapporteur is whether the Enhedslisten will be involved, on the basis of the disagreement that may exist in here, in mapping this and saying: let us find out what it looks like and whether there is or is not a challenge, and then get a basis for making the changes that may be needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122533	I think the rapporteur had asked a question, whether I had touched on it or not, but leave it at that. In relation to the survey, several people have also mentioned that a great deal of work has been done ahead of this, and I really think that it would make better sense for us to make a survey of the state of freedom of expression for researchers. But I would like to hear the other way around whether the proposers and their parties have actually asked some of those who are dealing with these issues, or have asked some others, or what kind of preparatory work is ahead of this work. Where is it that you would be able to support or help if there are some who have experienced these problems? Or is it more from such a gut feeling that it might be good for the state to make a central board and to decouple it from local work in universities?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122636	Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122637	Well, the basis is actually that we hear from different people, that there are some challenges here. I do not want to go into this in detail, because the people who come to us with it find it really difficult to bring it up in other contexts. So we actually think it is important to look at it, and that is why I would like to call for a survey to be carried out so that we actually look more objectively at what is the problem. Because I'm not supposed to be able to say anything exactly about those who come to me. I'm not a professional, I'm not a scientist, and I can't dive into whether it's completely objective, and I can't dive into what's going on out there either. So I would just like to repeat my question to the Enhedslisten. Couldn't we agree to do an investigation and a mapping of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122720	I think it is a huge gift when some people are calling for us to create a better practice or that there are some things we can improve. Sometimes when people turn to a problem, it is obvious to try to ask whether they have any concrete proposals on how to solve the problem or whether there is anything that can remedy it. I do not hear that what is being asked for is that we should have a research board in the way the rapporteur proposes it on the contrary. There are so many advantages in strengthening it locally, so I hope the rapporteur will respond and ask whether there are some things you can do and some initiatives you can take to see how it works today. We would like to take a look at the answers that may be given.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122802	Thank you. There are no more options for questions to the previous questioner, so we have to refer to bilateral talks about it. And no one else has asked for short markings now, so we move on to the next rapporteur. It's the New Citizens' rapporteur, and that's Mr. Knox. Peter Seier Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304122846	Danish research is recognised as being world-class. Denmark is in the world elite in terms of impact in leading journals. What does it take to create world-class Danish research? The explanation is that Danish researchers both do good research and are good at working together. But it also requires scientific wonder, humility and hard work week after week, year after year. Nor is it to any harm to rush over an uncultivated niche where technology can pave the way for new realizations. And then you have to have the ability to raise money and create relationships, both in relation to the entire research team and in relation to the world around. But when you are in power in a university system like the Danish one, there must always be someone you are subject to quality assurance of. The arm length principle is something we use in many other contexts. Science is a strong career-driven discipline. Scientists need a good reputation. Everyone must be able to lodge a complaint, including anonymously. The ability to complain about research is made digital and easier than is the case at the research institutions today. It's a sovereign decision of the jury whether or not it's gonna take up a case. The cross-discipline and cross-ethnic composition of the National Research Board will ensure the necessary knowledge sharing of the best Danish research practice. This gives future researchers even better opportunities to acquire the skills and integrity required of researchers at Danish universities. That is why we call on the parties of the New Parliament to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, but I note that they do not want to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123037	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123041	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Now the rapporteur himself touched on the possibility of these anonymous complaints, and that is one of the things that I am a little surprised about in the resolution, because I see the potential for such a system to be abused. I would like to hear what the rapporteur has thought about the practice that is being proposed here, and does he see any challenges in relation to the way it is proposed?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123105	Yes, of course, if there is no substance to it, a matter will not be able to materialize. So there is no point in making an anonymous complaint, which has no substance whatsoever, against a researcher.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123120	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123122	It must be assumed that a complaint will trigger some kind of process. Could it not be imagined that this would have any consequences for the scientists who are being accused? To be accused of innocence is, after all, one of the worst things for a scientist who can happen; just look at those who have been accused and have been sentenced. They are no longer in the field of research. So this isn't a joke. You have to take it seriously, but it's both ways. Creating a system in which scientists are at risk of feeling on the wrong basis can have quite major consequences. Is that not a concern that should be taken seriously? And do you even have the impression that there is a problem here that should be dealt with before you come up with such a far-reaching proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123158	After all, the questioner himself mentions that it has had consequences for those in whom the complaint has then been found to contain something. But if a scientist is purely acquitted and the complaint turns out to be completely meaningless, then the scientist will also be cleansed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123216	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we go to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123232	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate. It is always exciting and interesting to discuss research. The proposal we have discussed today intends to ensure the credibility and integrity of Danish research. Danish research is recognised as world-class, and it is crucial that we protect that reputation. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party believe that there is a need to update the law on scientific infidelity. Had the law been sufficient today, we would not have had the problems we have: small and closed disciplines in particular gender research, racial research, post-colonial studies and, in general, that cultural studies uncritically blue-stamp each other and university managements are too polite or too afraid to do anything about it. After all, it will hit them like a boomerang to rebuke scientists, for who wants to damage their reputation and perhaps miss out on funds and suffer prestige losses? This is one of the reasons why an arm's length arm is needed, because how can research institutions sit and assess their own? They don't want that. The conflict of interest is obvious and the extent of the problems speaks its clear language. The universities themselves do not solve the problems as they stand today, and it therefore also seems strange that the researchers in this particular case do not agree with the arm's length principle. In addition, I would like to preempt an unjustified criticism in my view, namely that we want to sit as politicians and decide what is good and what is bad research. We don't want to. It is important that the National Research Board alone can decide whether or not to take up a case and, at the same time, it will have the task of drawing up an annual report on best practice. The recommendations shall be drawn up on the basis of the specific challenges that may arise in a given field of research, with a view to strengthening the peer-review environment of the field of research and the training which belongs to the field of research. The interdisciplinary and cross-ethical composition of the National Research Board will ensure the necessary knowledge sharing and best practice, thus enabling future researchers to acquire the competences and integrity required of researchers at Danish universities. When we have set a late date for the setting up of the mention before the end of 2023 it is because we recognise that there needs to be a thorough preparatory work, and that is the work that we would like to take on board with this proposal. Now I have heard the rapporteurs say a little more broadly that we are not going to make any progress on this proposal as it stands. I must take note of that. What I hope we can work on is perhaps looking at a real mapping and looking at how big or small these problems actually are. For that matter, we can take along the freedom of expression challenges, as Mr. Stinus Lindgreen mentioned in his rapporteur's speech, because we need to be sure that this is proper and fair. We need to be sure that when research is done in Denmark, it is world-class, it is okay, and then there is nothing to put your finger on. That's actually our main aim with this proposal. However, I would like to thank you very much for today's debate and hope that we will continue it at another time. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123539	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123542	Thank you for that, yes, we're continuing it right now. The rapporteur wisely states that we should not, of course, sit politically and decide which areas or cases it should be, but yet the rapporteur mentions specific specific subject areas as problematic, one must assume, since they were mentioned in the speech in connection with scientific infidelity. That brings me to the question that may not be as surprising as I asked Mr. Peter Seier Christensen just now, namely whether the scheme proposed by the rapporteur here has no problems. Does the rapporteur not recognise that there may be some challenges in the way we do it? If you can accuse people anonymously and thereby pull them through a mill, even if they are cleaned afterwards, and you are also told that there is no smoke without a fire, there are some things that can hang on. And if you can keep doing that forever and accuse people of being dishonest because you disagree with the field, isn't that a challenge, isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123633	Anomymity, of course, has some built-in problems. I recognize that. Conversely, we also have a concern to ensure that the value of a research project can be assessed. And if you're in a pretty close research environment... and that's at least some of the issues that can worry us and that there might be a co-worker you'd like to have looked at, you can have a look at it with this system. And if the colleague is acquitted, I would say that he must consider himself cleansed. Of course, we need to discuss how we do this in a sensible way. However, I just think that there is a need to ensure that in smaller environments, you can also have an objective look at given projects with an arm's length view.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123721	Sir. Stinus Lindgreen.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123723	It sounds like there's an assumption that scientists are sitting there and putting themselves in a little bit and not going to criticise some other researchers for doing some bad research, and it's simply not an image I recognize. On the contrary, research is based on criticism of each other. Go to any scientific conference and read a scientific journal, and you will see that this is what researchers do: present their own results and criticise the others because they themselves want to be right and the others are wrong. That's what research is like. So the idea that you don't accuse people of unrighteousness, even though you think they've done something wrong, because you're afraid to put your name on, I can't understand at all. Where does that concern come from? What is really making this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123801	The concern that I have felt without being a researcher and without being able to understand the individual field of research is that in a field of research methods are being developed for which one recognizes one another but which in fact do not hold up in research terms. There I have the impression that environments can then arise where each other's projects are simply approved. There I would like to make sure that there is an arm's length arm in relation to the assessment of the individual projects, where they say: if there is anything here to come after, we should also be able to look at it. That is why I am actually calling for us to do nothing else, could we do a mapping is the challenge? Then we can do it afterwards, sir. Stinus Lindgreen and I, discuss what we do about it. But if we could at least get it mapped out, it would be a step forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123849	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20220304123902	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 15 March 2020 at 10:00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
